ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u1	Kjartan Jóhannsson, former general and president of the lower branch of II and former minister, died in his home on Friday, November 13. in the age of 81. Kjartan Jóhannsson was born in Reykjavík on December 19, 1939. His parents were Jóhann Þorsteinsson, a teacher, and later president of the nursing home in Hafnarfjörður, and his wife, Astrid Dahl, a nurse. Kjartan finished his studies at the University of High School of High School in Reykjavík, 1959, and then passed on to Stockholm and finished the construction test at the University of Technology there in 1963. After a year's education in economics at the University of Stockholm at 1964, he went to Chicago and finished a doctor's test in 1969's operations engineering. Back home, Kjartan did some engineering and counseling work, but soon he started teaching at the University of Iceland and was assigned to the math economics and statistics of a business department from January 1, 1974. Kjartan Jóhannsson was already a student and also a student. of the Icelandic student council abroad. In 1970 he began his involvement in the regional affairs of Hafnarfjörður, became the mayor of the 1974 Democratic Party, and was elected as vice president of the Team. He became General of the Smokes after the election of the class in 1978, and afterward he was appointed a sea emissary and, in addition, a year after the transition from the government to serve as a minister in February 1980. Kjartan felt that his privileges of ministers were great, while he enjoyed his education and the ability to handle difficult tasks. He went and was elected president of the 1980 Democratic Party and was his pointy for four years. Kjartan was sitting in the 12 legislature councils all along, between 1978,1989. During his reign in the fall of 1988, President Kjartan became the lower branch of the Generals for almost a year or until he was appointed ambassador on August 1, 1989, with a residence in Geneva. In 1994 he became the executive director of EFTA, and so he was in office until 2000. He was reexamined in 2002 and then with a residence in Brussels, until the end of 2005. After he began political reversal, he performed many committees and social services on Kjartan Jóhannsson. The same was true of his work in the foreign service, and when he gave his language abroad, he was always listening to the voice of Iceland. At the General Assembly, Kjartan made much of himself as minister and later class president, especially economic and resource, housing and insurance. He was actively involved in the International Work of the Parliament, with the Council of Europe and the EFTA Committee, and was among others. Chairman of the European Convention Committee. Kjartan was smooth and smooth about meeting management, but in the year he sat on the Presidential throne, a new government had no greater part in the lower department, so nothing was tested. He also used himself as president of the council for reforms. Kjartan Jóhannsson, a modest man in all progress, was quick to reason on the subject, and was firm and unforgiving when problems arose. In everyday relations, Kjartan was still light and smiling and often made blunt remarks about men and subjects that lived up to the day. About Kjartan Jóhannsson, wherever he was, on business, on politics, and on official service at home as a foreign country. I ask a council to remember Kjartan, the son of Jóhannsson, a former general, by rising from his seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u2	To answer these questions, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Health Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Development Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers and Social Affairs and Children's Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u3	A respectable president. The bank is now riding on the line with interest. I don't know what to say. I'm completely speechless about what's being set up for us right now. Iceland bank's riding on the field. The U.S. National Bank is advertising interest. Here the prime minister, and the government under her direction, has talked about how much she has come to meet those who are less fortunate in the community, to meet her families. A biographer contract was made that would reduce interest rate. The interest rate is 1%, but are the people of the country, the people of the country, enjoying now that the banks that we have, the Icelandic nation, are growing? I have to say, I'm really offended. We dropped bank tax and the highest. Secretary of finance says that it will benefit the consumers, the people of the country, the customers of the bank, when we lower the bank tax and it will return to an increased service and a lower level of cost. But is that really so? I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is that development acceptable, since the banks are also making billions of dollars by the third quarter? We're going through one of the biggest crisiss we've ever had to face, if only ever. We've probably never seen anything like it. It's the highest. ▪ Prime Ministers now agree that under its direction this trend is in our banking system, which is mainly related to the families and households of the country? And if not, how's the best? ▪ The prime minister, for example, is trying to reverse the reverse trend that we are facing today?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's request, and he wants to review what was presented in a case. A member of the council that the Federal Bank has never been lower in historical times. Furthermore, the government has made sure that the banks have full resources to support the development of their companies in the country. That has even been true. make decisions as easily as possible. A senator referred to curses on the banks, and on the other hand, the decisions made by the Secret Bank were made to ease the demands of resurgence. So I believe the banks have been given full time to support both people and businesses in the country. Hv. However, a senator well knows that the banks are not in direct administration of the government. Rather, he is appointed independent governments, the decision at the time that it was important that the banks not be involved in political affairs. But I would like to say that when you look at all that the government has done and because of it. A senator here referred to biographies, cannot be told of anything the government has done, no matter whether tax reform is seen, specific measures are made to reduce the health costs, housing procedures, child reforms, or special action in the interests of disability and older citizens. This government has indeed met income - bearing groups with all the tools and equipment we are equipped for, whether by tax reform, by the improving system, or by other means. I think this is very important, because we are in a deep crisis, and it is important that the measures that governments take to cope with it will not result in an increase in social instability, but just to nurture in these groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u5	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answer, this fine offer. In fact, there is an inequity that is growing each day. That's the fact. We have up to 25,000 people who are falling onto unemployment records, and prime minister does not mention that one word. She's just saying, "Hey, we government are nobody" and we don't have anything to say, even if we have two banks here. Nor do we have anything to say, though the bank manager may not make a better drop, so now the dollar's fall has become less than 20%, which goes directly into the prices. And on whom does that last? How does it look? The prime minister may overlook the fact that what is happening today is first and last to hit the poorest people in the land? It's not hanging up on me and the highest. Prime Minister. On the contrary, we have not been paid enough, not about a dollar. I ask, " Isn't it a little rough when we always see a gap? ' Is it normal to reduce bank taxes at the same time that banks profit from billions and raise their interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u6	Mr. President. Let's talk about the facts, says why. Senator. Let us then discuss the facts. No government has ever tried more to provide the facts of land income evolution, and I just want to remind you that the facts can be drawn to form on the site of the record. In case of a moment. A senator would go for it then would certainly be possible to review how an equation has developed in Iceland. [[Up front.]] It just so happens that in Iceland income equations are the greatest in OECD countries, just so I keep the facts in place, as good as any. There's a senator here. Right away. A senator then reviews the money policy, and I'd also like to keep the facts to the effect that the Council is taking care of it, his independence is guaranteed by the law, which is the way it is, and it has been a special passion for the Generals to ensure that independence. [[Up front.]] These are the three arms that need to work together. In case of a moment. A senator complains about the implementation of the money policy, so I want to keep it exactly the fact that interest has not been lower in the republicological period, and that is certainly a very important interest in the public. [[Up front.]] So I think it's important that we start with facts before we go into the big business here. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u7	Mr. President. When the pay - related recovery period was extended from three months to six in the beginning of September, the management groups decided to leave the remaining ones on basic employment benefits in August. In the treatment of that bill, we repeatedly pointed out that distinction. Those on basic work benefits in August did not receive a six - month - long pay period. And what does that mean? Yes, it is possible to obtain 456,000. every month during the income-related period of 289,000 dollars. When it lets go. The difference is about 166,000. a month, a total of about half a million over three months. It wasn't until the beginning of October. Prime Minister and secretary of finance said they wanted to correct this. The people would have landed between ship and dock, they were told. And now, in mid - November, a bill has been distributed at the General Assembly, which is supposed to be a sort of correction of the injustice since September. But the correction is to leave behind all those who were unemployed in February. In February 5% of the country's unemployment and 9% were in the South. In February alone, over 10,000 people were unemployed. It's not quite safe for everyone to go to the highest. The government realized that people who were unemployed in February get no job because they don't have a job? That's as good as the others. That's worse. The whole country is now in 11.1% and 21.1% of Southnes. So I ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs why the highest possible cause. Ministers and governments choose to leave behind the worst. Would it not have been most reasonable and just for all who were unemployed in August to have a six - month - long pay - time period?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u8	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for this inquiry. It is true that this is the bill I will recommend for today, if the council program so unfolds, which points to the fact that all people who became unemployed after the arrival of Covid in Icelandic society became out of work for Covid had a six - month - long - term pay period. Of course, no matter how much is done, the government has taken a very handsome step in, and it can always be seen to see that there is more to it. In view of that, I think the government has brought a very handsome approach to the situation of those who have been unemployed and who have lost their job. We can even see it. in the form that in the current year, the balance of unemployment will likely improve the rate of 80 billion dollars. I don't think that ever in Iceland, the state went in just as handsome when it comes to paying off the employment insurance policy. But I agree with what. A senator says it's important to stay on the watch when it's time. Hence, the government today is also considering further measures to meet those who are unemployed, and hopefully we will be able to introduce them in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u9	Mr. President. If you don't have a job, you're working on the rights of the employees. Paying them rights out is not some special quality of the government. The only thing highest. The government has made and contributed especially for the unemployed unemployment crisis - it chooses to do so for some but not for all. She split up in two. Half of it's going to be good for the surgery, but the other half isn't. It is totally unacceptable, and it is unjust. And don't say that it's too expensive to let the same thing over everybody, for it doesn't even cost half the amount that the government has already paid into companies to help them break people up. What can be expected from the government and the highest. Minister of the jury? Will basic non-employment be improved? They'll be 51,000 bucks. under annual minimum income insurance. Or will the government make sure that there are still others who go to the relief institutions for food?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u10	A respectable president. It is true that unemployment insurance is acquired rights. However, it is the hall here that determines how they appear and how much we step in and how. The government decided, for example. to bring in the part - help program to protect jobs that were approved at the council and set up tens of billions of dollars. The amount of money we're putting into the unemployment insurance system approved by the Generals, both approved on individual laws and as money as well as on funding, is much more than ever known in the Icelandic history. We decided to bring resources for the unemployed business crisis today, a study is an opportunity, three times greater than the equivalent of a financial crisis that could continue. We will continue to produce resources, and in progress there are further measures for those who are unemployed through the unemployment insurance system and are expected to do so in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u11	President. It's the grandest speech ever. Secretary of Education and Culture, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddd, against a woman who applied for the job of the Ministry of Education who showed a low profile for the minister's colleague, has understandably puzzled and puzzled. Thus, the management of the university personnel of the Council of Human Rights is opening the way, saying it incomprehensible. There are no examples of such a saying. She puts people in an unprecedented position against ministers and may cause candidates to hesitate to apply for a job in the state. V.E.G. The minister of education, on the other hand, keeps his distance. During a Sunday radio interview, a minister said that there was a good job, that she has made her decision, and that it is not too harsh to sue an individual. On the contrary, it is the highest. Secretary of education is the victim of the case. Or, with the permission of a president: If I feel that I have been wronged, I must have the right of the individual to get my rights. June 2nd. said the highest. Prime Minister in the symposium that the matter would be discussed at the next government meeting three days later. It cannot be seen, however, from the government meeting program, that this case has ever been discussed in that field, either at the next government meeting or at any meeting since. So it is urgent to ask the highest question. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter: Did the government get a presentation on the decision of the Commission of Equal Opportunities, as announced in June? Has the highest. The prime minister studied the circumstances for the highest court. Minister of Education and Culture? If so, it is the highest. Prime Minister agrees that the crime was at the highest level. Minister of Education and Culture?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Now I don't remember my exact words here on the platform, but I'll just say a word. A senator's opinion of that is valid. I remember, however, that the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture made it clear orally that she was sullied a case to invalidate the Court's decision of Equal Opportunities. That is the ultimate decision. The Minister of Education and Culture to do so, and it has the right to do so according to the current law. Like what? A senator knows and knows that I have actually proposed a change in the law on the equal status of men and women who are here for the treatment of the council to be willing to file a case of invalidities for the future if the administrative committee was referred to, as normal until 1997, but was changed by law. I have proposed this change because I believe that it is important that the system is designed to make sure that people are looking for their rights. Hv. A senator asks: "Is the Minister of Education informed on his decision? She did. Have I done exactly what this case says? No, I haven't, because this case is at the top of the table. The Minister of Education and Culture, who is here to answer today and who can no doubt review it further. As for the law frame, it's completely clear and clear. A senator knows the changes I have suggested.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u13	A respectable president. Yes, I'm aware of the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture... may attend their rights. But I'm asking the highest. The Prime Minister of Justice and Equal Opportunities to find it and whether it agrees with the highest level. A minister of education to see that it was violated and that someone should be attended. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister for disagreements in the government, taking many photographs. When diplomats are not too busy to criticize the alleged absolutes against their own disease prevention, ministers are shooting at one another. That's what you did. Education and Culture Ministers, e.g. in the above interview on Sunday when she focused her attention on the staff. Prime Minister, with permission of the president: ▪[The former member of the Federal Congress is the Ministry of Directors at the Ministry of Presidency. [...] It was a transfer that was not even advertised. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister how she feels about this pill. Secretary of education and culture. Does she consider her recruitment process to be as good as in the case of the company manager? Education and cultural minister or even more serious abuse of power, as a minister's words for an interview on Sunday show?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u14	Mr. President. Thank you. Once again, a senator repeats what I said earlier, and I have not submerged the facts of the matter. A senator asks about and believes that the minister of that matter will review that interest as she prepares for answers. I am kind and obliged to review it as a matter of course. A senator asks specifically in his second request. The Ministry's Department of Directors of Presidency was moved to work according to a clear source of 36 p.m. track No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the government, where it is authorized to transfer officials. That authority, in fact, is based on a statement in the Republic's constitution, so that command is totally above doubt. The employee who was transferred to the post of a state of states who was actually appointed to the office, reminded me that, after an advertisement by the Foreign Minister, The Eygló Harðardóttir, the daughter of Eygló, no one has to doubt that this order is absolutely above doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u15	Mr. President. Not that I want to come up here and sound like a scratched record, but this is the third year in a row that I'm going to direct a query to the highest level. Healthcare Minister asking for payment on health insurance care and dental rights of children born with cleft palate or cleft palate or lip. There is one group of children who have been left out in the system literally - a very small number of children in the country. Mr. President. It is clear and undeniably clear that if there is nothing to do in most cases of child abuse, there will be many problems with their health. It turns to form many aspects of teeth and dental health, speech and language development, breathing, and in general, such simple things as eating, and this could continue for a long time. Besides all of this, a delay in invasive activities may increase the risk of children having psychological problems in growing up, so I believe this is a very important matter, no matter what the situation may be. Thus, late intervention can also be much more costly, more painful, and take longer. Mr. President. Of course, parents'economic status should not depend on how they deal with the birth defects of children born in this country. We cannot be known to correct a birth defects that damage both the physical and the mental health of children by means of the parents'economy. We must want as a community to support financially in activities designed to improve life, health, and the well - being of children born with such defects. It does not matter what their parents'economic situation is. What's the story on this case? The protocol was set up in 2018. Then it was reassigned to 2019. The parents received a tour of 2018, 2018, and today, according to reports, recently three parents with such children have received a reimbursement at their request for the financial share of health insurance. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking the highest. Healthcare Minister: Is Regulation to the highest level. A minister prefers to have it, or does she feel that it needs to be changed again and that it is being followed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u16	A respectable president. I don't think anyone has to question the fact that the changes that have already been made in the current Regulation reflect my will in this matter. However, I have received information from the parents of children who have been discussed in the media asking for advice on Iceland's health insurance policy to be followed. This is being done within the Ministry and will be answered when it is completed. It is important to keep the decision that SI has made on matters that have not been called upon to the decision of the welfare committee. So, prior to the decision of the DA's committee, a case within the administration has not been cleared, and it is not proper for ministers to comment on the matter. It's just the situation. Medical insurance has supported its argument that it was not time to assess the applicant's dental problems, but it is not the end of the shot that later applications of the relevant parties may be approved when it becomes time to assess the problem. This is a word for word against Iceland's health insurance. But I'd like to make sure. A senator of my opinion on this matter and at the same time stressing my position in the matter, i.e. in view that the case may be referred again to the decision - making committee. Also, as for possible advice to health insurance, the procedure is on my level, so I cannot express myself in a material way as this is done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u17	Mr. President. My question was simply, Had the Regulation become as a minister? That was my first question. Second, it's hardly that I want to celebrate this answer. As it has been observed in my previous inquiry in this case, in the fall of 2018 and again in the fall of 2019, to the highest will. There seems to be a minister in these materials. There seems to be a place where the state and health insurance are involved in the parental cost of carveting children born with this birth defect. My question also points to whether a minister intends to use his administrative authority against his organisations in those matters if the minister's goals are not being met and how they are. Or has a minister just given up on the case because we've been talking about it for three years? Is this final payment, because it really is, and it is determined, is there a need for treatment?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u18	A respectable president. As noted in my first answer, this was addressed to me on November 11, where a minister's request is made. I need to give the Ministry the right to go to the stitches of the case, and I will not answer any of the talks here from the General Meeting's talk, but I will do so by legal means. The changes I have made to the Regulation are designed to capture the situations in which it is necessary and serious consequences of congenital defects. That's my goal here, so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u19	Mr. President. Sunday was the highest. The minister of education on a radio interview spoke there about the results of the Commission of Equal Opportunities that it had been guilty of violating equality laws. In an interview, the minister, with permission of the president, said: I'm a minister, I'm also an individual, and I'm worthy, just like everyone else in the Icelandic community, to be able to get my rights, to think I'm wrong. The minister's comment is remarkable and important for many things. Of course, the right to sue has been, that's undisputed, but a minister needs to be aware that there's a minister headed for a woman's court. This is the minister's case, and this is the Minister's case in the name of the government. This does not include any individual's attitude in the city, and this is a fundamental part of the discussion because it is about how this highest one is concerned. Ministers operate and how she uses her power. And it was also a minister of education who was sitting on a radio interview, discussing anonymous and anonymous officials, staff members of the administration board who have no involvement in this court and have not come near, officials whom the minister knows very well that he cannot participate in public conversation with a minister, and who cannot do anything but sit under these couriers, as unworthy as they are. So the minister did so that day with his power. In this regard, I wondered about the difference, the situation at its height. Minister doesn't seem to sense. I feel that I sense some history of the treatment of power that is unpleasant. I ask: Is it really a minister's opinion that this court is about the person of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir? And is it really her opinion that she can sit in a radio interview and talk about government officials the way she did that Sunday?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u20	A respectable president. First, I want to congratulate us all on the day when two new women have joined those sitting in the Supreme Court of the United States. For a query of what. The senator of a certain court case I would like to point out to a senator, as she well knows, that it is the only way to make an account of this matter. It's the only way the Minister will have it if the Minister doesn't agree with this. I did the right thing as a minister, and I'll keep it. I can't wait to go over this with all of you when it's over. I'd also like to mention that it's about equality. It's about that it was a panel of qualifications made up of three individuals, two women, and one male. In every case here, the man is always spoken to and never said that there were also two women on the qualifications committee, the former headmaster, the first woman to be the headmaster in the history of the University of Iceland. In all the publicity, it's always said that it was the man who was responsible for everything. [[For example, consider this: Ministership is being referred to.]] How urgent it is when we are talking about the community's important issues that make us honest and giving up everything we do in that regard!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u21	Thank you very much. Secretary of the deposit, but she didn't answer the question. It was clear; whether the minister feels that this case is about herself as a person and whether it is right for a minister to sit in an interview and talk about anonymous officials who cannot defend themselves in the way she defended themselves. I did not say that this matter was about a man or a woman; I simply mentioned the fact, and I must be permitted, that the jury came to a certain conclusion in this matter. It may well turn into a legal case. The situation is as follows: An offense against equality. But, somehow, it's all turned upside down. It is so that the woman was appointed, and the minister himself spoke of sexual relations in these matters. Could it be that the response has something to do with the toughness of the minister himself in this case? Every man has a verdict like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u22	A respectable president. I have answered, and I believe that anything that was done in this matter is an opinion and, therefore, as a minister, I ask for an invalidation. I don't agree with this decision. If it has become so that politicians have become afraid to stand up for their convictions, why are they in politics? Is it harsh to ask for an invalidation in a case that you do not agree with? I just ask: Do we want politicians or political women who don't have the courage to stand up for what they do? My answer is simple:
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u23	Mr. President. All too often and too regularly, we receive examples of trustees who have not been taken in the eyes of foreign authorities in this country. The response to that discussion has become equally regular if they point to a second system that is at the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs, which is a system that accepts people who move here for employment. Close to the top is the case. The secretary of finance pointed out this in the conference halls last week and said that he was ready to look at the system that is now open. And a minister of justice, who has also often mentioned this and mentioned it in an interview this weekend, said that he wanted to do something, but the case was with a social minister, where she had a direct discussion, and there was a point to consider. This is not our place to get caught looking at just high-payers in the telecommunications, as it has been opened this fall, or this before the predefined experts that business can pick up into the country, but only ordinary people who want to settle down here, in the power of being able to work here. That is why there is some mixed message coming from the government when the Minister of Independence Speaks in one way, while prime minister generals propose to increase the legal rights of foreigners, which actually indicates that there is not a great deal of social security. So I would like to ask the minister, "What is government policy regarding people outside of Europe who want to move here?" What work is going on to clear up the rights of that group to settle here? When to expect the highest. A minister gives me some adjustments to the council because I have more faith in him than in a council of prime ministers?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u24	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It is true that there is quite a debate in the community on the employment rights of foreigners who come here outside the EEA, and often in connection with matters pertaining to alien law and those who apply for protection here. The situation today is that first, on the basis of the alien law of dwelling, a license is granted to the labour market minister or to the labour agency involved in employment rights. Also, as soon as it may be wise to take a certain step, when it comes to dealing with the professional rights of foreigners, we also need to look for an enormous amount of immigrants in the Icelandic labour market, and we can see this closely in connection with unemployment figures, etc. So you must not look at these matters in a way that is a magical solution by making changes in the law on temporary rights of foreigners, that everyone will stop applying for the rest of the system, which is intended for the trustmakers and those who apply for protection. I have often felt that the discussion is about us trying to solve one another. I have declared that it is wise to take a certain step, in the discussion of how to clear up foreign employment rights. That conversation needs to take place, not just at the political scene. It must also happen in a conversation with the workforce itself, with both the employee and professional drivers, how we anticipate it. That is how we compare ourselves in many lands. It will not solve the problem that exists in the Marketing Authorisation System because it will continue to review how we can make it more specific, and I have offered the Minister of Justice to assist in doing so. The exact date or date of the end of this work is not available, but we are ready for it. [[The president calls.]] But we do not have some preconceived conclusion about how and how to open it. [[The president calls.]] A conversation needs to be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u25	A respectable president. It is good then to have realized that it is not the policy of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter to open the country to foreigners outside of Europe. That's simple my second question. Well, then I can put aside all these employment provisions and talk to the highest level of the company. Children's Minister on a case related to the interest of children on the run. There are so many red flags that the minister must respond. Regular, once again, we learn that children's interests are not self - recognizable when they apply for international protection but are based on their parents'interests. We have received answers from the Minister of Justice that you are interviewing less than half of the children in applications for international protection. In addition, parents have simply taken custody of whether their children are interviewed. I ask the minister if it can really be, so that the child's contract is selective, depending on what the children's parents say when it comes to this group, and in view of the fact that the diagnosis of the need for disabled refugees is very different and not being properly cared for. [[The president calls.]] How does the Minister of Social Affairs ensure that the child's condition is above the head of a respected child when it comes to the welfare of the children to flee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this second question. The answer to the first question, whether the United Nations Children's Covenant is selective or not, is clear: No, it is not a choice. In any case, we are to enter the United Nations Children's Covenant. One of the things that introduced the alien law back then was to earn an independent assessment of the child's interests when such matters arose. It is not, however, unique counsel or minister making such an assessment. It is at the hands of the institutions of the community and the managers of individual affairs every day, and the Foreign Institute is among them. That is why I have emphasized to the Minister of Justice that we need to be sure that this interests are being achieved in a way that we want it to be won, that it does not have a gap in it. In matters that have been raised, I have expressed doubts with the Minister of Justice that it is in all cases like this. I know the Minister of Justice has had a job on this, and I know that the Senate Committee includes. for a report on the affairs of foreigners, and particularly for the Department of Social Affairs to shed light on children's issues and to assist with the work that is involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u27	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion with a bill-change proposal to correct the change in agricultural law, No. 99/1993, on the working conditions of the manufacturers of the horticultural products, from the job committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Ása Þórhildur Þórðardóttir and Elísabet Anna Jónsdóttir's daughter, from the Department of Proconservation and Development, Katrín Andrésdóttir, of the Association of Gardens and Gunnar Þorgeirsson of the National Institutes of Iceland. The committee received no reviews about the case, no reviews, no comments to the bill in the September issue of government consultation. The bill suggests changes of agricultural and agricultural products in accordance with the agreement of marine and agricultural ministers and financial and economic ministers done on behalf of the Icelandic government at Iceland's Farmate and Parking Prayer for changing contracts on the working conditions of the manufacturers' products of 19 February 2016. The meeting pressure was signed on May 14, 2020, including with a note of the approval of the Generals for needed legal adjustments. These changes are part of the aim of increasing the production of Icelandic vegetables by 25% at the next review of the contract in 2020 and to an increase of 200 million. K. a year with the contract to be used, including to bone graft due to transport of electrical energy. So 2 mg is suggested. 58. g. agricultural practices will be changed to simplify the process of direct payment because of the distribution costs and transport costs of electricity rather than the current cost of subsidies. Qualifications must be implemented in a Regulation, as stated in 3 mg. Sixty-one. The law, in harmony with the earlier agreement. It should also be noted that the maximum pay for each of the manufacturer's total yields due to the increase in bone graft yields from 15% to 17.5%. For the Committee, it was important that gardeners have increased awareness when it comes to electricity subsidies and in areas which have limited access to electricity, to the importance of their development. Clearly, access to electricity is a limited part of greenhouse construction and therefore directly affects the location of the operation in the country. It is important that the subsidies provided for the subsidies of electric wastes in horticultures are kept at the 95% drop in transport costs, particularly in view of the presupervisability of farmers' management plans and in view of their objective of increasing farming production by 25% to 2020. With reference, it should be clear how to handle bone pay if the ratio of transport costs falls below e.g. 80%, when total energy consumption of the year is achieved. In view of the above, it is important that subsidies from electrical transport to garden farmers will be further seen. As far as this factor goes, a better plan for farmers is produced. In view of this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: ▪ The first chapter of the book The New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, published by the No manufacturer can receive a larger total donation according to the contract on the work conditions of the manufacturers of the horticultural products than 10% of total bone graft production, with the exception of bone pay due to electrical transport and distribution costs. The peak is calculated by the individual bone - grade type. The maximum support of bone payment due to the transport and distribution cost for electricity per manufacturer is 17.5% of the total bone payment category. A respectable president. On this matter, there is solidarity on the job committee. Under the committee, I also write with me, head of the committee, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir, Friðbjörg Frildurof Elíasdóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Helgi Gunnarsson, Nællur Trausti Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u28	A respectable president. I'm not really here to answer, I don't really want to answer. But I'd like to declare it as an officer in the audience that I'm supporting the situation as it's so changed. Nevertheless, the situation highlights what we really need to change, and that is the domestic agreement. I think it's too long that the review will pass. I think we see it, especially in the light of the very changing consumption habits of our Icelanders in the Covid epidemic, that we need increased vegetables. The market is changing, and we're supposed to do much more to support plant production and gardening here in Iceland. I think we need a system that is much more flexible and that takes into account the needs of consumers, but not as well, which came in. ... tothe panel meeting, that gardeners want to do more, they want to have more production. But they have, for example. insufficient access to cheap electrical energy, and that's something we have to sort out. I support this, but I feel that we need a much more flexible and more aggressive agricultural system that supports farmers and we consumers. We face a very changing pattern of consumption and the way we habitualize Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u29	A respectable president. I just think it's a really good one for you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir on this matter. We have taken this discussion with a professional health committee. I agree that it is very important to correct the working conditions of vegan farmers, garden farmers, and farmers in general. In these times, when we are under intense pressure, we also need to be aware of domestic product production, its state of imported products, and our position on the market for farmers and consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u30	Mr. President. I come up here to discuss 224th case, bill to correct the change in agricultural law, No. 99/1993, on the working conditions of the manufacturer of the horticultural products, as well as the existing Committee's opinion of changing proposals from the employment committee I am on as a representative of the Committee. I wanted to discuss this matter a little bit. Although I support the Commission's opinion and case as a result of taking steps in the right direction, I believe that the government should have gone further and viewed the whole system and tried to get more and larger steps in order to build the production of gardening products on a much larger scale than we have seen so far. But to do so, as I mentioned, we need to look at the whole system and determine how we're going to achieve more intensive domestic gardening and more progressive development to a much greater degree. Mr. President. To do so, we also need to look for ways to improve the cooperation between our knowledgeand the manufacturer, for example. linking producers and experts in gardening, food science, and engineering. If we look at how the fishing industry has made significant progress in recent decades, it is to a large extent the amazing intelligence that makes Iceland, where individuals with experience in the industry worked with people with skills and engineering knowledge, to create efficient processing lines. The work has provided that we have today a magnificent company, such as Marel and 3X Skaga and Frost, which are now selling their products for food production worldwide. Not to be overlooked, Mr. President, this process of knowledge has led us to, rather, virtually no longer throw away much of the fish. Such cooperation and such knowledge are needed in order to build up on land the production and processing of gardening products. We have everything else that we need. We have enough energy, we have plenty of heat, and we have knowledge of growing plant products. We could easily cultivate much more than we do today, and that's what we want to do. We may also be producing a much more diverse product than we've been doing so far. If we allow ourselves to have a bright view of the future, we could, in large measure, support our own need for agricultural products and even, if we allow ourselves to look forward to the future, produce goods for exporting. Right away, though, it would be a big step to cultivate our own resources and would increase both national security and lower the country's most important carbon roots. Mr. President. According to Iceland's Habitat, we produce a little bit today. 44% of what we consume of tomatoes, about 11% of what we consume of paprika and cabbage, 29% of cabbage, 16% of cuckoo, 17% of brocccoli, 24% of salad, 63% of mushrooms and 48% of carrots. And in spite of a recent celebrity shortage of pickles, we are able to produce approximately 97% of what we're doing here on the land. Mr. President. These are just the major species that we produce in this country, and unfortunately, the Office's summary is no more accurate than this. There's something that I think we need to take a serious look at to get a better picture of what we're producing in this country and how we're using it. We could so easily be producing more, and we could even, as I mentioned earlier, reach out to grow more than we needed, and we could use it to export. But there are other factors that we need to consider in this context, e.g. We need to create a sledge, Mr. President or meaning for products from Iceland that connect Icelandic food to quality and sustainableity, which is truly what Icelandic products represent, and use it for marketing within the country and outside. I'm the highest. The marine and agricultural minister to simply agree with all European Food Organizations. In this way, simple consumers would find out what markets are available in Iceland, and hopefully they will provide a powerful market for the commercial products sold abroad in competition with other countries that have become widely available in such markets. Mr. President. There are certainly positive steps in the case we have here, but thanks to the work of the Committee, we owe it to Covid. Before Covid struck, it seems that there was no significant change in the agreement with gardener. Yet, there is still some lack of a proper motivation for innovation, although there are many things. We also need to consider how the system needs to be, how we want to operate, and how it needs to be designed to make the production competitive, and that is not limited to the types of species that the government decides to produce. To do so, we also need to look at the electricity cost, i.e. electrical costs of mass recovery are complete between urban and rural areas. In this context, it's good to put on your shades, and I rejoice to the top. The minister of the law is here in the hall, but today is simply an incentive to push the greenhouse structure towards larger settlements where the costs of transport are lower. Thus, the system should be more motivated to build up in areas with power to use it rather than vice versa. It is also impossible, Mr. President, that the system is thus built up to meet the level of electricity for greenhouses in one pot, so that if any new person decides to enter the market, or if any members of the system decide to expand, the donations will be reduced to the others. Mr. President. Although I'll celebrate the steps in the case here, and, of course, will vote with it, we'll have to take it back again as soon as possible and take bigger and more specific steps in the development of Iceland's garden. We need to give more intensive support to gardening, vegetable production, and innovation in food production. That's where the Conspiracy wants to go at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u31	V.E.G. President. Some proverb says that the narrow is a great idea, and it is certain that the issue we are dealing with now shows in many ways what the present government has to do with courage and is free from seeing the future without vision. Although this case is worth a fine pay and I come to support it, it is in the present circumstances ambitiously, not taking almost enough action to be done in the circumstances in which we live. The last time I knew, Iceland's garden farmers were 200 million, and the first time I saw it, Mr. President, there were 200 gardeners in Iceland. Now I don't know if it's going to be quite smooth or by some size level. But under the present circumstances, the natural government should have taken a bold step. She should have decided that gardening would get electricity at the same price as other industry. What do I mean by this, Mr. President? Yes, in the South alone, more than 600 people work in the garden of Eden, which is more than in the average steel plant. And right now, when we are in the middle of a epidemic, there would be an increase in horticulture production that would be the easiest and fastest thing we could do to improve the level of employment and improve the level of production and even take steps towards transporting vegetables. Regardless of how we do it, it's good in every way to increase the production of vegetables in Iceland. It increases employment, production value, and value of what we are doing. We consumers get more wholesome products because it's not being poisoned, it's not being used here except the best water that exists and, just so I take one example, we avoid moving tomatoes halfway around the world with all the energy and pollution. But we're supposed to look much higher than this. If we look at gardens and vegetables in Iceland, it's two kinds: it's so called broiling, and it's cultured under glass. The growing industry is also competing with Europe's inexpensive labor force available to take up the crops and work on them. Reports have been made that e.g. Suspiciously in Italy, Romanian women have been brought to care for this and have been greatly ill - mannered, subjected to violence and harassment, as well as to the flagrant low wages. As responsible consumers, we should not buy vegetables unless we know how it is cultivated, whether it is a great use of toxins, and that it is absolutely certain that those who earn it will have all the rights we Icelanders feel about themselves. That's what we're supposed to do. As I'm saying, there's still one of the weights on the pavilion that we start producing more vegetables than we do today. I think there are two ways to approach this matter. It's a good thing to use bone payment and production grants to help farmers who are working in the field, as they are like all other Icelandic farmers competing with sustainable production, subsidized production. I have to say once more, Mr. President, because there is no available, it is not simple to find out how much money the European Union spends every year to subsidize or to sponsor agriculture, but the number I recently heard was 69 billion euro. I've also heard a figure of $83 billion. Then you can count. These are worth tens of thousands of dollars of dollars for which this production is supported in the European Union. The European Union is tailored to the fact that agricultural concentrations in Europe are hidden in a kind of farm or fog. In Iceland, however, it's all on top of the table. We know how much goes, e.g. to sheep farms. We know what leads to milk production, and the consumers share in the natural process of production, and most vulnerable to subsidizing the milk dropped by about 100 or 200 k., or whatever, and subsidating lamb. This can only be calculated. But we cannot calculate these numbers on the basis of how the European Union provides its information. They're not available. The figures I mentioned earlier are not from the European Union, Mr. President, but from the established media, e.g. The New York Times. This is what Icelandic farmers, along with vegan farmers, compete every day. Now, I'm going to reiterate what I said earlier: A general council is going to decide that vegetarians get electricity at the same price as the heavy industry. It's annoying, Mr. President, and I've been asking over the years, both farmers, farmers, gardeners, and the Farmers, and I always get the same answer when I ask: Are Dutch farmers still having every mile of time to grow under the glass at a lower price than the Icelanders? And the answer is yes, Mr. President. Dutch farmers get their electrical kilos cheaper than Icelandic farmers. It's energy produced by nuclear energy, coal, oil, gas, whatever we want. It's not environmental unless it's small, possibly some wind power. And then I come to wholesome production here; less poison, virtually nothing in some places; ground water is cleaner; no more widely used water is used in our productions. This is what is called in English or Half English, and I know it's Icelandic, and I'm able to get it past it; it's such a point of sale, even to export it. I know tourists have come for example. in the World of Peace, a great company in the South that has pursued tourism, but just now that the tourist spring is drying up a little, what do they do? They double the facilities they intend to use for emptying under glass. These are people who deal with the adversities we Icelanders are in right now, completely like heroes. We have a lot of people who are willing to do something similar, but we need to create them. That is why we need to make sure that by creating a growing arrangement, we are making sure that we sell less energy. There's also something else that I've talked about a lot, and I'm going to talk about here too. It is the falling water that flows from activations, e.g. down all of Elfus from Hellishe activation, and since Nesjavalle activation, 1974 has been poured out into the Lake of Þingvalala completely destroyed. The water that runs down the elf, and the tiny schools could easily flow through three, four sets of greenhouses, depending on what heat it needs to produce. Or it might as well be used to run through three or four farms if you want to, but that's something else we'll take later. But these are the possibilities, Mr. President. They're infinite. And what can we do? At the time, and it has been said here in the halls of the Generals all the time I've been here, which is now not very long, were so fond of being made a toll agreement and a contract with farmers in gardening, and it all went so well. What went so well? Yes, farmers were producing gourds and tomatoes and peppers. Everything else was brought in, no restrictions on the way the price was applied. And merchants found it natural to have only vegetable farmers on this shelf and don't have to be thinking about them. I'm going to tell you again, Mr. President, that this is the case with the veggie market in Reykjavík, that I have not yet met a potato farmer who is ready to appear before me and tell me about his business affairs because he knows that if he does, he will be in trouble with the merchants in Reykjavík. It's an intolerable situation, and we need to think about these people. We also need to know more about the price of agricultural products over our heads. We need to know exactly that, and it's not available. The person standing here has made various efforts to find out the truth in this matter. This is not easy, and a particular conversion is required to cross it, e.g. If we take the lamb's husband, though he is not here to be discussed, and what he will do, what the butchers will receive, what he will get in the state's worth tax from the sale, and what the store will get to put in charge of the goods. This problem came back the other day because the cost of the cattle manufacturer was being dropped by 5%, if I remember correctly. At the same time, beef goes up to the store. Then I ask, as I asked earlier, when sheep farmers were groveling about 30% on one board: where does the money go? In that case, it became evident that they were running to the slaughter holder. It is also because we have not been alone in supporting the slaughter holders so that they can get together, work more together, without a competitive act of disrupting them, as has been shown in milk production. It is a profit, because it has become specialized, perhaps 3 billion a year; consumers receive 2 billion, farmers 1 billion. This said the attendance and fine ex-mate, Ögmundur Jónasson, and no one else has explained this as well, I think, and he did at the time. What do we need to do about this? Vegetarian industry, both breeding and under glass, is likely the largest single wand we can now influence to grow into the future, both in order to produce more than a wide range of domestic productions we know how to produce, which we know is not dependent on toxic uses, which we know is produced by environmental energy, which we know has less carbon tracks than the vegetables that are given long to our disk. This is the reason for number one. Reason number two is that, of course, farmers should also start producing more expensive products. With the contract made at its time by tomatoes, pickles, and peppers, with great respect for that vegetables, humans were trapped in it. As a result, most likely in the last four, five years, there has been a fifth reduction in Icelandic vegetables'trade in Iceland. This is natural complete reverse evolution and completely in opposition to all that is reasonable and right. Of course, we are to provide a way for man to produce a more varied product. It benefits everyone. It's a profit to farmers. It's a profit to consumers. The country as a whole is profited because production is increasing. The possibility is that it can be exported to Icelandic vegetables because it has this unique position. If they doubt what I'm saying right now, let me give you one little example. Some years ago, young men in Denmark began moving augurk from Iceland to Denmark. The Agurkan they moved from Iceland was more expensive than what Danir calls eco-friendly grass, which sells in stores at high prices. What happened? In Denmark, the Icelandic aguar received such a welcome that these young men did not get enough. Iceland production wasn't good enough. It was not possible to deliver to them all year as if they had chosen. So I say again, there is a possibility, Mr. President. They simply need to be enabled by simple action to use the power in them. Then it comes up again: Let's give these people the energy at the same price as the rest of the industry. There is no contain, because in the example I took earlier, there are three major stations that used just as much electricity, as the annual city of the year. But men got the energy at the same price as a man who puts laundry in a washing machine. It's natural below all the caves, Mr. President. And the mass costs - the activations are beyond the neck. It's all because of the stupidity of not lowering this price and allowing people to produce more. I've said it a few times before, and I'm going to do it once more: a few years ago, I suggested it, and more with me, that the Icelanders would start producing the spices Wasabi. They looked at me like sheep in car lights and thought I was just starting to mix up, like you sometimes do. Happily, however, this product is now being produced in Iceland. It has been very well judged, very successful. I've said that once or twice before in the symposium, and I'm going to say once more: The possibilities even appear. in the fact that last year there was a shortage of crops in Bangladesh. What did that mean? This meant a worldwide market price in the plains of Vanillaries costing like a gram of silver. If anyone had said to me at some point: Icelanders can grow silver, I would have rejoiced greatly and wanted to encourage it to be done. Mr. President. If we Icelanders support farmers who are in gardening, we can start producing an equal amount of silver into a demeaning value. It's just one example. We can increase this production in quantity and variety over the long future, almost indefinitely. Have enough money to move out, and in the next few years, we will not be able to expand export income to support society as we travel out of the valley.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u32	Mr. President. I just want to get involved in this discussion about the possibility of growing production in gardening and cliting and increased vegetable production in the country. I am so happy that there is an increase in the amount of money to the garden and the agreements made, agreements between the Coalition and the State, and the Union Garden Prayer. This agreement was made in spring, and here we are enforcing it by the resolution of the Council, and 200 million a year will be proposed to these contracts over the next few years, with an estimated review of 2020. The Government of Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir highlights the importance of our covenant that we contribute to the increased production of healthful agricultural products and, of course, the gardening, the climatic production, and the growth of vegetables. The situation we live in right now, this Covid situation in the country, has led to the failure of many community support, and there we must put an even greater emphasis on food security and domestic food production, both to increase our jobs and to strengthen our economics by saving our currency and being able to produce as much of our food in this country with environmental energy and the opportunities we have. So it is very important that we have set up a food policy that was produced by the Marine and Agriculture Department, in the field of Matur Red Iceland, in cooperation with a number of stakeholders. From that work came a large, remarkable document that we need to follow closely in the community, where it applies to these sectors. The opportunity to become part of a nation's bridal industry and forestry has been established here, and we need to be supportive of those who are building up in that field. The pipes have ideas of growing production, making a kind of large production of vegetable production where there are opportunities, where the earth is a great source and a good access to electricity, such as in southern countries. It also requires building up the infrastructure, the distribution system, and access to the energy, so that it can be followed up. It is our government to give the best support, both by building up the infrastructure, by strengthening the public system and transport, and by providing energy for those who want to go into climatic areas. This energy has to be competitive with what happens in another production. We know that the industry has its long secret contracts, and we sell about 80% of its electricity production to the big country. I believe that we should put far more emphasis on the gardening and the climatic industry as well. We need to look for ways to deliver the energy at acceptable prices. Of course, there are always about 200 million. Could that be a higher amount? Of course, everyone wants a higher amount of money in one of these contracts. But I think this is a good injection and an additional one for what was before. I think it's also good that this maxim is set, that no manufacturer can get more than 10% of what is suggested in order to cover the distribution of electricity to the article. There's an increase in maximum pay to the manufacturer from 15% to 17.5%. There is a great innovation in this article, and we know that there is always a growing number of species in which people are working and cultivating. I think there is also a great opportunity to have a wide variety of products in production, and it can be done, man has shown it. We also do not have the powerful toxic compounds known to us in large manufacturing countries, the Netherlands, and other countries, which we import from vegetables. I think the opportunity also lies in building an even more organic species. We need to continue to work on having a contract for organic farming in our domestic product. I think that's where we're on our way to strengthen and further promote domestic food production. We can always do better than there, we're taking a big step toward what most of us agree on, i.e. that domestic food production is important for the national food security, contributing to lower carbon levels - it is not good to transport food halfway around the globe - a wide variety of jobs in the country, and a wide range of job structures around the country where there are possibilities for both farming and breeding. We are taking a step toward providing good and wholesome products for consumers, cultivating good conditions, maintaining clean air, and ideal conditions in many ways. Although winters are hard for us, we can meet them with our climatics and the geotherms as well as with increased innovations and technology that are developing in these articles. I think consumers will always choose Icelandic production in vegetables and garden products if available and competitive, both in price and in quality. It's not a matter of quality, but I think the price will remain under the conditions of gardening. With this added contribution to her, she's more competitive. I also think it is very important and urgent that wording in Icelandic production is a sign, that foreign vegetables, imported vegetables, are not being wrapped up. It should not be marked as an Icelandic product if it is actually a foreign product transpired here in Iceland, for that is how the product sails under a false flag to consumers. Even if the package is Icelandic and may be labeled the Icelandic flag, there is no Icelandic product. I think this is where we're on the right way to support domestic agricultural production, in this case gardening and growing, and it's supposed to be a celebration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. Friðriksson This discussion, of course, is of great interest and importance. I now pronounce my pleasure with the contract that was made in the spring months at the garden of approximately 200 million. K. which form bone grafts, which, of course, are positive. But I would have wanted to see better in these matters. It is time to trust the foundation of Icelandic vegetable production because it is very important to us, especially in these times when we have gone through, and it is not least a place for food security. In addition, it comes to carbon tracks and other environmental factors. The prosperity of production is then unique in Iceland relative to the rest of the countries. The water, as mentioned, has not been the least to say in this regard. It's okay to tell about it here that I once visited a ganghouse in the Middle East. These dates were delicious and were wrapped in a very tasteful box. When we looked around and began to inquire about the water and other such things, it was found that the water used for water actually came out of the toilet, having been clean but not sufficiently purified. When you heard this, you tasted these dates with something different than you did in the beginning. But this only shows that we should, of course, promote the great good things of Icelandic vegetable production. This is especially the strength we possess and enable us to market these products in foreign fields, as well as encourage Icelandic consumers to use and enjoy Icelandic vegetable production. I think consumers' understanding of Icelandic vegetable production is growing in general, and it's a pleasure. But it is also important that the meaning is correct, as presented just now in the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir rightly stated that it is very important that the meaning is correct and that we are not trying to get our lips into our markets under false signs. It is very important that this is done well because people are confident that there is an Icelandic production when marked like this. What is positive about this contract made in the spring months is that it promotes breeding in vegetables that too few farmers do. There's a need to be increased. Many people know that little is better than when the Icelandic product is being introduced and looked forward to it. But as I mentioned earlier, I would have liked to see more clearly in terms of this contract and in part the problems we've been through because of the virus epidemic. It's as if there's always some sort of external shock, so to speak, to push men to get them back to life with the amazing farming and vegetable production we have here. I would have wanted to see that there was more to be added. The taxpayers of this country are being collected on the basis of the environment. This means that the policy of this government has been a great deal of taxation for the public through carbon balance and the environment associated with it. I would have chosen that those funds would have been used in a better way, for example. to strengthen vegetable production and agriculture in general. We can see that, for example. That the carbon tax, each litre of gasoline and diesel, returned, as this government began, on a yearly basis of about 3.5 billion dollars. ... ina treasureofthecreet. It is to be returned to the next year of budgeting about 6.2 billion, which has increased by half in the time of that government. But only a fraction of this tax goes into the environment. The very point is that consumers and taxpayers of this country are actually entitled to know what the tax goes and whether it is used for environmental purposes. It would be possible to include some of these taxes simply to add to this agreement, for example, to the plant producers, and to support the handsome in Icelandic vegetable production, though it is certainly the right angle. But then you ask yourself, when this deal is over, what then? Is this period just over, this action, and we'll just go back to the same box? We have pure Icelandic energy, and it is perfectly normal for it to be used to repair such a good production of Icelandic vegetable production. I just want to come on, Mr. President, the carbon track and how important Icelandic vegetable production is because of it. There has been much discussion about reducing the rise in carbon dioxide left each year by the Icelanders. We are familiar with this discussion, and government policy has aimed at reaching the level of carbon equal in Iceland in 2050. It is quite clear that this will only be done by broad measures in many areas and may be contributing to the growth of domestic food production in order to reduce the quantity of carbon emissions derived from import. Let's not forget it. These goods are being carried long distances as we can grow them here at home. It means that people are still importing such large quantities of vegetables and talking at the same time about the importance of reducing carbon pollution and all that at the same time that these products can be produced here. But we don't have enough support for that production. This is something that we have to start taking seriously in a far more powerful way than here is done in my opinion. In addition, this money savings adds to the country's security, strengthens the settlements, and is commercial. The hydrocarbons that produce vegetables and fruits leave behind are widely distributed according to species. Based on data published by the National Institute of Vegetable Energy, carbon emissions have been calculated from the same criteria as foreign production and the foreign figures put in it are said to be based on a very conservative assessment. Thus, it is said to leave only 26.1% of the carbon left behind by the introduced foreign salad production. These are amazing numbers, Mr. President, and they show us by themselves that we should put all our energy into the production of Icelandic vegetables as the main food for Icelanders when it comes to vegetarianism. In this case, greenhouse production leaves about 43.7% and plain tomatoes about 54.8%, but this difference is mainly in transport. It is then noted that when compared with breeding, e.g. on potatoes, local potato farmers come out a little better than their coal in Britain and the Netherlands. This is mainly explained by the energy used in cool storage and carbon emissions in transport. There the Icelandic potato industry produces about 8 percent lower carbon emissions than the foreign product. This is despite the relative reductions in crop and oil consumption per hectare in Iceland. In Iceland, for grown vegetables, such as carrots and cabbages and more, carbon emissions are 88.21% of those left behind by the imported vegetables. When data from the European Gardens Prayer on Icelandic flora are examined here, it is found to be an entirely special product compared to an imported flower. It has only 18.44% of its carbon tracks as a proportion of imported products. It also shows that Dutch flowers have a carbon track over 16 times the size of a flower that has been cultivated in Iceland. The explanation is that most of the clean energy used in Iceland. The electricity that Dutch farmers use releases about 100 to 200 times more carbon than the production of Icelandic electricity. We can only see how much good we are because we use our clean energy in the eco-friendly and good production of Icelandic vegetables. It is very strange, as mentioned in this discussion, that the electricity prices for gardening in the Netherlands should be lower than electrical prices for gardening farmers in Iceland. We're not supposed to be known for this kind of thing, with the Icelanders with a lot of Icelandic energy, that we can't offer the cheapest hydropowers in the world, but that's how it should be. I'm hoping we'll live to see that it will be, in fact, that Icelandic vegetarians have access to the cheapest energy in the world. That's what we're supposed to do. The benefits are so many times that there is really no question that this is something to pursue with all power. I'd like to mention at the end, Mr. President, that the Central Party has proposed a contingency program in the form of a synonym proposal for major domestic food production. In addition, this is one of our priorities at the council, and we make it necessary to maintain a safe and predictable environment at all times during agriculture and the Icelandic gardening industry amongst them. It is the basis for us to get more people to start producing Icelandic vegetables, to come to the culture, to be looked after by the environment, that they may not have to see that the electricity will rise again. It's maybe, I think, the problem with this case is that people don't really know what's going to happen when this deal goes out and this 200 million will be replaced. This needs to be permanent, the fact that the garden needs to be supported in a way that is ideally possible, for those who practice this production to increase it, and for new ones to enter the article permanently. To say that, I support this case, of course. This is a step in the right direction and recognition that this article is important to us. It needs to grow and grow. Of course, consumers should be encouraged to buy Icelandic vegetables instead of foreigns, which also matter. After the electricity has fallen to the market for vegetable farmers, hopefully over time, the price of this product may fall, perhaps to some extent. More people will see the benefit of buying it. Above all, though, the quality of goods that all people know is natural, and Icelanders are willing to pay a higher price for Icelandic tomatoes, for example, that is far better than the immigrants. Indeed, it has a lot to say. But as I said before, consumers'understanding of this production has grown to a great degree and are becoming more positive. It shows that we are indeed on the right path. Hopefully, in the end, we will be able to say that this has been the start of a major product production in the field of vegetable products.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u34	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I'm just gonna sign for a very good discussion, that's in the picture. We have found the good spirit that prevails in the garden of Eden and that members of the Parliament want to do better. It is so that it can always be done better. But this is, as it has been observed, a good step towards improving the gardening position. It has been discussed earlier that across the Mediterranean, which was quoted earlier in Italy, there is a monthly wage for gardening about one month. One hour in Iceland. It is the reality we see in our garden, in the competition. We have the wholesome water, the energy, the good people, and then we have the carbon tail on our side of this market. It is also important, when speaking of Icelandic production, that it is well marked as production in Icelandic. We will be able to sell that brand very expensive because it will always carry quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u35	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the Schengen information system in Iceland. The bill is composed for the induction of three EU types due to Iceland's Member State contract to the Schengen Community. The actions include a fairly extensive change in the information system rules and were therefore determined to set up new laws on the Schengen Information System here. Combining laws date the year 2000 with subsequent adjustments. The actions suggest changes in the information system aimed at promoting the cooperation of the police and the judicial authority of the Member States in the Member States, promoting the use of the information system on the border border and strengthening EU policy on re-imbursement of third-country citizens who are engaging illegally in the Schengen area. The induction is part of the international commitment of Iceland as a member of the Schengen Team. Thus, the natural space for induction is very limited. The bill is far more detailed about the individual components of the information system, its use and implementation of information in it, than in existing laws. It is recommended that new type of information be recorded in the system. More information must be provided and the quality of these information must be emphasised with the aim of increasing the system's efficiency and ensuring reliable information for the authorities who have access to it. Personal protection rules are supported by the setting of baseline registration criteria as well as the setting of management, preservation and destruction of personal data from the system. Special requirements for registration and use of biomarker information are also included. By means of new registrations, which are recommended in the bill of this bill, in certain cases it will be permitted to register sensitive individuals into the system which must be prevented by exposure, which, according to current law, children who are at risk of being taken in an illegal way by a parent, the victims of a human room or members of a armed conflict, are permitted only to register persons who have disappeared. So these registrations are intended to be preventative. Information on individuals in the case of direct interference by the police will also be allowed when there is clear evidence that the person will commit terrorism or commit a serious crime and that certain information about the person needs to be obtained. It is then permitted to register the relevant to the information system in order that if another state interferes with it, the registration book will be provided with information on this, e.g. about the time and place of the interference, or his possible remarkable connection with wrongdoing. These registrations are not adding the police's authority to interference with citizens. Rather, police can only use valid legal authority for this purpose, police law and criminal law, as is the current Schengen information law that allows a person to be registered to the system for confidentiality, search or physical examination. In certain cases it will be permitted only to record the print data of unknown individuals in the information system found in the field of terrorism or other severe breaks in order to describe or identify the person and to form a new category of registrations. This will set out how to distinguish between two persons in the information system using a similar identification description and how to deal with the abuse of identification. In addition, it is suggested by the bill that more information on individuals and parts of the information system should be recorded and that it be provided in a precise way which items can be registered and associated with an individual registry. Increased sources of information registration hides, including In the event that a link to terrorism or terrorist organizations must be recorded and it is permitted to record items related to information technology and the part of a motorized vehicle and/or industrial equipment that can be identified. But one of the objectives of new registrations in the information system is to turn the Schngeren information system into the government's main tool for fighting terrorism and other activities. The bill requires not only registration but also registration in certain cases with some exceptions. It should be noted, in particular, that citizens of a third state who are in an illegal stay in the Schengen area and who have agreed to be expelled or deported. These are innovations, but so far it has been very selective for the state to record such information into the system. The requirement is to increase the scope, effectiveness and coordination of the Schengen countries for the implementation of such policies and is to help improve the safety of the Schengen site. These files will be deleted from the system when the person has left the Schengen area and this will be carried out on purpose. It will continue to document the re-entry ban of the third citizen states in an area where appropriate, i.e. when the subject is to be withheld from coming and staying. As there is an increasing record of the information system, its function is greatly increased. Enrollment will be increased and, therefore, the tasks of the user. It is emphasized that the authorities who have direct access to the system use it for the tasks they are authorized to do. The responsibility is also laid upon the authorities to ensure that information recorded in the system is reliable, recorded and updated legitimately. It is suggested that, in addition to those who have direct access to the system, by current law, the National Relation Guard, the local district attorney and the State Department will have access to the system for specific specific projects. All of this is involved in improving the safety profile of the Schengen area, including the public safety and the Global Order, but the system trusts monitoring on the outer borders of the region and facilitates the cooperation of the government in order to prevent and eliminate fragility. The Schengen information system is an important project in the cooperation of Icelandic and European police personnel. Through the operation of this electronic database, information is effectively and safely linked to the state, but it is important to follow carefully the rules of the free movement of people in the Schengen area. The modified Schgeren Information System should also be guided by the expected changes in technology and information systems at the site of the team aimed at implementing two new systems in 2022, on the other hand, the non-reportation systems, the EEA, which will be installed on all outer borders of the region and on the other hand, the ETS, which, on the basis of which is the basis of the State of third states, which are reserved for visas, should be applied for travel privileges before they travel into the Schengen. A new directive on the visa information system is also in the testing field of the Schengen Joint, while all these information systems, together with the Schengen Information System, have the primary objective of improving local safety. Changes to the Schgeren information system recommended in this bill are one of the most important factors involved. The bill received official review of government consultations in February. but on the basis of the bill, the Ministry specifically sought the direction of the state police office, the National Institute of Iceland, and the Federal Protection and continued work at the bill was sought to give full consideration to any comments received from the bill. Finally, it should be proposed that the bill for a change in the law of foreigners and the legal rights of foreigners, which was submitted to 149. and 150. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u36	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the change to public penal law, with the goal of strengthening the protection of individuals against sexual immunity. More important, the bill refers to the social changes that have resulted in increased technology and the development of attitudes toward crime in Iceland. Clearly, current legislation and legal action do not provide complete or adequate rights, which is manifested in a blurred court order and a negative way of dealing with break - ups. The result of the bill is some, and it can be pointed out that in the government's administration, it is considered that measures are aimed for the control of digital sexual abuse. It's part of that job. As shown by the detailed report on the bill, they have been carefully prepared and included. For example, driving studies, interviews with economics within the justice system, taking into account the changes in law and policy initiatives carried out abroad. In addition, the laws given earlier at the General Assembly have been looked to and discussed the same or closely related material. Digital technology has been responsible for human relations, both materials and forms. This involves an enormous opportunity for progress, as well as a potential for promoting harmful behavior and behavior, which is manifested in a new way. An example is the use of digital technology to violate sexual privacy. Before we go any further, it should be noted that certain terms have been applied to such behavior over the years, such as digital sexual abuse, snout porn, vendettas, and sexual exhilaration. This trend in term use has been most significant due to attempts to react to certain fracture manifestations. When confronted with digital sexual abuse, it has often been a way of using digital communication to create, distribute, or release sexual footage from others. The concept of snout porn was an attempt to capture the intervention that a behaviour can involve against a person's privacy. In view of the importance of the importance that penal code is not too dramatic, and in addition to as neutral with technology and communication as possible, it is suggested that the general law of penalties be violated against sexual privacy. Modern legislation provides only fragile right - to - face protection when it comes to digital sexual abuses. It causes even Inconsistencies in judicial action. The legal adjustments proposed by the bill are aimed at clarifying the legal environment against sexual privacy and promoting the careful management of such cases within the rights system, thus ensuring the fundamental benefits of personal freedom, privacy, and sexual freedom of individuals. The core of this change is the new law of 199. gr. a in the sex crimes of a general penal code involving sexual immunity. The law would punish the preparation, distribution, or release of a photograph, a movie, a text, or other similar material that shows nakedness or sexual conduct by others in the absence of a warrant. It will also be punished by threatening the use of such material as counterfeiting such material. This also includes a change in 228 g. and 229th pars. general penalties, but the changes are primarily designed to explain the rights that the laws already provide, especially in the light of the challenges resulting from a digital reality. Finally, a change in criminal treatment laws is proposed to ensure the effectiveness of the changes proposed to penalties, but to the subject of the bill and to the explanation of its individual requirements, to the other extent, for a detailed report. V.E.G. President. At this bill's input, the objective of the government, to deal with digital sexual abuse, is to act. In recent years, there has been clear evidence in the conference that transnational support is under action aimed at strengthening the right protection of sexual privacy individuals in ever digital times. I hope it helps progress the bill. It is important that the lawgiver, who knows when social and technological developments create room for new manifestations of sexual crime and breakdown, reacts to ensuring the rights of the citizens. Violence does not involve just physical beatings. Those who resort to the violent act of vengeance are aware that they are violating the person in a gross way, destroying the person's soul life, making the victims feel unsure and scared, and thus to continue counting. Sexual violence, whether by digital technology or not, is not only a problem in Iceland but a task that all countries have to fight. A respectable president. Everyone has a right to immunity. This is also true of sexual immunity. It is important to strengthen the rightfulness of individuals in the light of the social changes that have resulted in increased technologicalization and the development of attitudes toward sexual abuse in Iceland. As soon as we make good use of the potential for the digital revolution for Iceland, we need to be alert to the fact that laws are always being updated to the rhythms of technology development, as if the operating system in the computer. The view that the transmission of nude images automatically involves the approval of the public distribution is as archaic as that in women who produce feminine self - image, sexual harassment is inducing itself. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill, following this discussion, be referred to. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u37	Mr. President. I come up here to compliment the highest. Minister of Justice for suing this matter. This is of utmost importance, for these fractures have a long - standing and burdensome effect on their record of wrongdoing. But now it's on the Internet, i.e. That's where it appeared. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice, how she can foresee that police can effectively support such violations, whether the police will be properly equipped for financial and human research. At the same time, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice to see how the borders on these matters will be settled, the legal history will be involved. What appears in the pages of the United States rather than in the United States - how can the police deal with such cases?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much. I agree with the point of how important it is for the case to come up and become a law because we see far too many examples of this difficult experience that has just been to share, including. in an individual's Instangram account called '-Min property', as it brings attention to these issues and what it is like to do with them. Ask questions that arise. A senator comes along, perhaps first about the police and how she is prepared to handle this, I refer to the report by María Rún Bjarnadóttir, which specifically applies to the handling of such matters, both in research and in knowledge, and in the need to set procedures, they will be taught at the police school or university courses in particular, and how important it is to follow up when such a law is approved. It carefully reviews what the police need to have. Of course, there has been a special funding for the sex crime departments of the police in every area where there is a special person in these matters, but of course it has not completely changed the period of waiting that is especially in the capital area. They need to respond, but at least there are special investigators all over the country who should be able to handle these offenses. How important it is to cope with them! About the border, like the cot. A senator mentioned, I think that exactly the way we're going here, to make this a little technical, and to call this violence, a violation of sexual privacy, we're taking them out of the equation. No matter what the digital reality is, we're more concerned with calling this offense against a party that's going to report to the police. Then we're taking it out of the picture that it has to be in a digital reality. A violation of sexual privacy can be committed without using digital reality. I think that's why we're answering this and making it easier. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it will also be a challenge to these new laws, which I hope are fast and effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for Answers, but I kept on wondering the possibility of the police dealing with such a offense, as soon as I don't want to diminish the importance of this bill, not at all. It's only to encourage the highest. Minister of Justice to further the police, to further the departments that investigate these matters. It is, in fact, independent violence, often accompanied by other forms of violence between parties. This type of sexual abuse is often accompanied by another type of crime. Then we are talking about violence in close relationships, as well as sexual abuse in close relationships or violence within groups of friends where, after separation or breakup, or anything else, the threat of distribution is suddenly broken by threats in case there is no firm tolerance. So these issues are incredibly complex. They need careful research and a lot of weight. Maybe that's what I'm worried about when it comes to the people's lives, that these matters happen. They're, as I say, very burdensome with a biting and long-term uncertainty that there's material of you running around the world. It's just an independent offense, and it's really burdensome.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u40	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator might want to say that it is also being changed by the bill to provide adequate study privileges in these fractions. But it is also important that the police cooperate very well with foreign police authorities and private officials who have helped to eliminate or attack sites to prevent further offenses against local people. I know that there is a great deal of effort to do well there, both with the police authorities and private authorities, to prevent, for example, the situation. such distribution of images. This may refer to, as a senator enters, as well as to a direct or entirely unrelated party in these violations, and it is important to have in this room both threats and frauds because we have also seen examples of counterfeit images being in a distribution that are hard to detect, it is, as it is called in English, pardoned by President, U.S.A. It is also interesting to consider a table that follows the report on how this has been applied here; it has been subjected to a shameful fraction or sexual harassment; however, the insecurity experienced by offenders has not been consistent in a judicial proceeding. It has been worn out, as it were, and much inconsistencies, and it has perhaps reduced the belief that it will be accomplished to the limit and that it will be considered as violent as it is. I think with this bill, we're strengthening it, and we agree with what. A senator's insistence that the police must be prepared to complete these violations, like other serious offenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u41	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a digital immunity bill. A similar bill was originally submitted to the 148th legislature, 20173/42018, of our Pirata, Helgi Hransson, Gunnarsson Hransson. That bill was a bill for a legal change in the sexual law of digital sexual abuse, but in a paper that was won for the government by María Rún Bjarnadóttir, she suggested that sexual immunity be used rather than digital sexual abuse, where it is better off the tribunal. All right. The report also shows that increasing the use of technology by society calls for new laws in this case, in which current sexual immunity laws do not protect individuals well enough. The presentation of this fact was made even in the first century C.E. the negative and often serious consequences of such violence. The above report also shows that María lacks support and understanding in the justice system for those who have been violated by sexual privacy. They even experience it. It's a pain in the ass from the police department at the press conference. It has long been necessary for governments to conduct a complete review of the case category. So laid. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson and 23 others before. All units, except the Independence Party, two times present the basics here at the General Assembly for a change in the general law of digital sexual abuse. They were banned from digital sexual abuse and made the penalty of spreading, publishing, or producing images or audio elements that show a naked or sexual behavior of an individual without his consent, that it provided fines or six years of imprisonment. At the same time, distribution or release of a fake image or audio material, whether of photographs, videos, or other forms that show a naked or sexual indiscriminately, could be fines or prisons. A respectable president. Despite the failure of the bills, their political management showed a clear view of the failure to support the legal protection of sexual privacy and the handling of such cases within the justice system. Among those who presented them were Iceland's Women's Court of Women's Rights and the office of the State Attorney. The opening of the bill Helgi Höfns Hrafn of Gunnarsson, a member of Pirata, was the so - called Free the Nipple Campaign, or Icelandic Breast Revolution. It was an international ideological revolution that took place in women's beatings as an act of rebellion against established and out - of - date social values based on discrimination. The beginning of the case here is due to an incident on March 26, 2015, when Þóreyjardóttir Smáradóttir wrote pictures of her breasts into the community center of Twitter under #Freethenpple. She declared that the purpose was to call attention to vendettas and other inequities. As a result, hundreds of Icelandic women followed the procedure and entered various social services under the same criteria as Adda. Several changes associated with the revolution were held in public and attracted much attention. National studies suggest that women are more emotionally abused than men are. This applies to adult or paediatric patients. It is clear that women are more subject to an invasion of privacy than men, and in the case of male fragility, men are usually involved in homosexual relationships. The need for laws to change is set aside to ensure the protection of those who suffer digital abuse. Back to Pirata's bill. After 1st. So the bill went to a committee that did little more than put the matter to rest, as the Senate case is not. But here we are today, the bill is presented as a bill of directorship, and the more likely it will be that the matter will be conducted here within the council and finally become a law. And it must be welcomed. On the other hand, five years have passed since the revolution was under way and is the time that has passed and that is typical of how often the council is responding to society's pleas. The bill is based on the Constitutional rights involved in privacy. For a 71 st. The republic of Iceland says that everybody enjoys privacy, home, and family. Personal privacy is primarily the right to control one's life and body and to enjoy peace with one's way of life and personal interests. At the same time, emotional and emotional relationships are viewed as being protected by the law. President. I'm glad this case has come back. It is an important human rights issue that I truly hope to receive a payoff within the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u42	A respectable president. I'm gonna wish for the highest. The Minister of Justice is deeply congratulated on this bill. I'm so glad we're out here. For a long time, the need to deal specifically with digital sexual violence has been discussed. A senator before me came in handy before me with the bills of that subject. A former senator, Björt Ólafsdóttir, presented such a bill, as shown in the report and later in the year. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. I think there was a certain road toward what is here, and it seems to me to have a very careful bill, and a major factor has been considered. What I might have intended was to enter my speech, and the highest. In fact, a minister did so in opposition to the fact that the matter of material material in question was false. It is very important that we make it clear too. For such a middle-aged prune like me, I would advise people not to take naked photos and send them out to vote. I'm sure it's of little use in modern society. It is clear that no one should endure the sending of such images or publish without the permission of the person. I think it's a pretty good bill. I'm not going to extend this discussion any more. I'm just going to celebrate and wish to the highest. Ministers to happiness in the production, and they also wish to do so. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, which will discuss this case, can do a good and thorough review, but at the same time, fast and sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u43	Mr. President. I wanted to speak to you about the prime minister of justice on sexual immunity, primarily in order to express the satisfaction that has been shown. Underneath are important interests that have come to the fore in the public conversation, sexual privacy, and sexual rights of self - determination, and in the political conversation, although the reality is, of course, that this is not a new offense. But with technology, like the highest. The minister of justice was here referring to an enforcing discussion, and unfortunately, this series of wrongdoers is increasing. The viewpoints that were sometimes heard when these matters were first coming into light were often somewhat in order that there might be a personal matter rather than something for the criminal system to deal with. Blessedly, I think that this attitude has completely abandoned us. We know that in many cases such fractures have led to the serious consequences of taking their own lives after such violations and the extensive distribution of sensitive images. I said, I'm afraid this class is not new. This is not a new reality for police, it is not a new reality for prosecution; it is not a new reality for courts; nor is it for violations. But the case is, and the fact is, although this case has been accused, it is being used for the regulations not made in order to deal with these offenses. Of course, there is increasing recognition to make a special provision now or to express it in a special way, as it is to be done in 199. a According to the bill, which of these fractures is not meant to be used. Although laws used have been established in courts and could be applied, e.g. For this purpose, sexual harassment or violation of shame, is not based on the same ideologies and does not apply to these offenses. The prohibition on shamelessness was made simply before violations against the interests of people on the Internet were found. It is an important step that the Minister is taking today with the contributions of this case, and I welcome it. I personally have experience with these fragments of a previous job, and I recall the need to set rules for this purpose by writing with my colleague, Kol Kolbrún Benediktsdóttir, an article in the Wolf River a few years ago. I have to admit that I'm going to learn more and more about this matter, but I've done a little bit about it. I'm very happy to see this case come into the conference room, and it's the second time we've got needed compensation for the benefit of sexual abuse at the highest level. Minister of Justice. I have to say, I think it's a reflection of the Minister's positive view of equality, because it's a smell of that conversation. We Icelanders boast of being world champions of equality, so to speak, according to World Economic Forum, and we are also very close in comparison with other nations in regard to extensive Internet use, the spread of material online. So we must think about it, and it must be our goal, as should, of course, all other nations, but especially for a nation with this status, to ensure the equality of the sexes and the status of women with respect to Internet violations. I think it's positive, and it's fun and fun to see that there's quite another catch in the language of the language. Minister of Justice, but what we heard from the highest level. Secretary of education here today. For the discussion that we often hear, this group is sensitive to the boundaries between freedom of expression and privacy on the other hand, I want to say that these are, of course, basic human rights. But for those with these issues for treatment, e.g. Within the police, it's usually not the big joint that needs to cross but rather the technical viewpoint. They sometimes need to get some information on IP numbers. They need cooperation with foreign police authorities, etc. We know what the situation is; someone paged with matter of this or another comes up, is taken down, and rises up equally. In this context I think it matters, and I don't doubt that the police will put it first, to watch this party even better than I would perhaps drows because of the highest degree. A minister in the context of this, when we get these fine laws, hopefully soon, that police and prosecution are being taken care of to ensure that these fractions are handled by the police and the prosecutions. I could believe that by allowing this bill to become a law that may be more difficult and more of a police focus on covering these matters. I'm not saying that it wasn't before here, but a better tool chest is just set up for the police and the prosecution. A positive focus given the highest. I intend to be optimistic about her positive conduct in this field, as well as the vision to secure the police, to secure the prosecution, and to give the courts the opportunity and space to do well in this regard. I remind you about the fact that we're still in a situation where treatment is taking place is coming up as a problem. Last I saw in the news today that a court order was found in a rape case where it seems to me that punishment of the accused was softened during the trial period. There's a problem I'd like to see that disappear. I just want to make sure at the end that I like the bill and I'm looking forward to a better look. I have no doubt that the case will be successfully treated. The General Board, with what? paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, and I hope that this good bill will be legal at the end of this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u44	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalise the validation of the 2019 state bill in accordance with the laws on public finances. The budget for 2019 is the third account made on the basis of an international government accounting standard called the IPSAS status. The induction of the changed accounts is a very extensive project that is soon to come to an end, but the introduction of several standards must be postponed until the next year. Unauthorized is the signing of a government accountant, and the result of the revision is that government funds have been successful in all major aspects of the year 2019 and that by the end of this year the government's budget was secure. The start of 2019 C.E., according to government account, was positive at 42 billion dollars. Incomes totaled 830 billion. Of these, cost taxes, product expenditures, and other indirect taxes and tolls were 331 billion, while individual income and profits tax returns were taxing and billing 340 billion dollars. The budget of the budget was 809 billion, of which 350 billion and $33 billion were used, and the salary and pay related fees were 230 billion. The cost of another business was 194 billion, while other taxpayers, such as capitalization, were 16 billion, and description, and 20 billion. In addition to the financial expenditure, the cost was 57 billion, the interest rate was 63 billion, and the interest rate was 6 billion. Share in the survival of partners and fellow workers was positive at 78 billion. A respectable president. The financial balance of the state's budget has taken a significant turn in recent years, including Because of the possession of permanent funds, and gives the balance of the account a complete picture of property, debt and financial status of state funds. According to an economic account of 31 December 2019, properties totaled 2,355 billion, debt of 1,947 billion, making it a positive total of 4,08 billion. By the end of this year, the payoff was 270 billion and increased by 53 billion per year. The implementation of the state bill is published according to the government accounting standard, IPSAS, as mentioned earlier, but the total financial and financial recovery is published according to the local labour market, called GFS standard. Both methods are designed to ensure compliance and international control capacity. Thus, the contribution of the state funds according to government accounts is not comparable to financial and financial objectives. In each Member State bill, a special statement is published, where the results are stratified according to the GFS category of budgeted and found to be negative to 39 billion, according to the terms of the Commission. Thus, the recovery by the GFS standard is 67 billion lower than the 2019 budget expected. The changes from updated programmes such as they were published with a bill to be funded by 2020 and were presented here at the Council in the autumn months of 2019 were of some 24 billion. The main explanation for this anomaly is that economic developments became much negative in 2019 but were expected on terms of budgetary and were a government financial policy, including the government. That's why you reviewed mine. A respectable president. Despite several contributions from the Icelandic economy in 2019 C.E., government accounts show a strong status at the end of 2019 C.E. for government funds. Over the past few years, there has been good results, so the position of one's own money is strong. This fine state of state funds has enabled us to cope with the current economic breakdown caused by the rapidly exerting of the crown virus epidemic by resorting to massive counterweight measures and ensuring a strong response to the end of the epidemic. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to the budget committee and to the 2nd. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u45	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. Budgets are presented on the basis of national accounts, and the method of reconstitution is called the GFS economy standard of the World Bank, such as the highest budget. A minister came in, and then is published a certain escaped measure. On the other hand, it is the payment laid down in a tax account, based on an IPSAS account status, which is international for public authorities as observed. These measures make up a significant difference, but there is a relatively small understanding of the difference in balance. I believe that there would be a great improvement, for a discussion of the government's finances here at the General Assembly, if further explained by the figures of the individual figures between these methods. A more detailed analysis is missing from the variation between these methods in order to detect the difference and to be identified for its reasons. The review of GFS, or the national accounts, is not being revised by a decision, but it is very important in all economic issues. However, per capita reviews State accounts made according to the IPSAS standard and as previously noted, these two methods provide different results. However, government accounts are very important in all economic and economic discussions, as well as in terms of government control, its institutions, its trustees. That's why I'd like to ask if the highest. The secretary of finance does not consider it desirable, and to make much improvement, to make a much more clear about the abnormalities of this method than is stated on page 20. 8 in cash account.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u46	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator that we need a good report on the difference between these instruments in order to understand the fundamental factors involved in different conclusions, but the results are quite different, as I explained in my history. However, I think, if we look at the bill and the report by saying that it is quite clear here in Table 1, for example. There are a great deal of difference in government profits, or about 60 billion, between these methods. The same applies to a commercial investment that affects the budget while the rest affects the income. Thus, these key elements are presented in Table 1, which is simply entitled: Explanation of the difference between national interest methods (GFS) and accounts (IPSAS). In Table 2, only other psalms include those that include the following: they're looking for a plan. We offer further explanations on what will follow in the case of the Committee. But I can't help but agree. A senator's concern is that these differences are important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u47	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers and as he mentioned, the difference is very great. I think this is very necessary to explain this discussion here at the council, so people will better understand the difference and why it's so great, like the highest. A minister rightly mentioned. I'd like to step aside and maybe get the highest opinion. Ministers, whether or not he agrees with me that it is important to resolve according to national accounts and analysis of their abnormalities in the IPSAS production will be reviewed by neutral parties, i.e. of accountants who have been trained and educated for such works, instead of being discussed without a revised national account. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of whom he deems them to revise this arrangement, in which He does not take care of it, just to make it happen. State account does not include major analysis of business problems, and it compares with the goals set in government management. Although such analysis is made in the secretary's reports, it must be considered that this analysis will be greatly improved for the very readers of the accounts, although the calculation of the accounts is in accordance with the IPSAS. You can therefore ask the highest question. A minister whether it would be an improvement, or an improvement in the quality of this discussion, to publish such a measurement in terms of government bills.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u48	President. First briefly forward to this difference. As the bill says, the IPSAS is primarily focusing on the economy and management situation. This standard allows evaluating financial resources, sharpening the authority's responsibility and increasing the signal for operating decisions while GFS, which is this basis we use for financial and financial management, is more likely to focus on the economic impact of public financial policies, detecting the impact on the economy, options for making decisions on public finance, etc., and thus telling us whether we are reducing tension or increasing activities with the effects of the budget. This is very important. The results of a financial bill, in itself, may even tell us whether we are running a conservative national policy or not while the IPSAS is even saying how it works. I'm very interested in it as a boy. A senator comes on, which are goals and achievements, and he makes progress in setting goals. I have to say exactly as it is, it's my opinion that we're not good at doing that kind of thing. My priorities would be that the council would be stronger to do so. No doubt some sort of outside party is needed so that it is not directly involved in political shootings, that it merely depends on political emphasis on how a person sees the showdown, but is considered to be a little objective. I don't know if the role of a state accountant as a accountant is very good, but surely we were able to do much more by going e.g. the objective of the provision of public funds and of making up the results it was to produce. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In this way, we could no doubt get far more out of the way of the increase in government production than we do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u49	Mr. President. It can be seen in 2019 C.E. that the economy was slowed down and the status of the state funds was getting worse. Then, the crash, the failure of the hairy and bankruptcy of the WOW airline, and the expectation that other airlines would quickly fill the gap did not depend on so much. Thus, bone and secondary effects of these events were uncertain. The government's budget prior to 2019 was marked by a great expansion and a lack of counseling, I mean, since there was not enough concern with a business council. It was not apparent that the government had a good perspective on the government, and the request continued to expand. The economy was getting cold, but there was something the government was like in a kind of denial, I'd like to say, and there was a lack of success, just as the highest level. Minister has just mentioned, due to increased expenditures, e.g. in the waiting list of the medical system. In fact, the lack of success in the 2019 budget and the way we were involved in making money was outstanding. The closest they are, as I say, to watch e.g. Just on the waiting list in the health system. Increasing expenses does not always guarantee success. There has been no success in working on the list of waitings, but there has been an increase in expenses. An increase in diplomacy for 2019 was in my judgment out of place when a person was seen as a state charge, and it can be assumed that the government was trying to set some kind of record in that regard, as it were. The government then proclaimed funds on the top of all of this. So it is not surprising, Mr. President, that the show is 67.4 billion dollars. It's worse what it's gonna be if it's a total 2019 budget. According to government accounts, the survival was negative at 38.9 billion. According to the 2019 budget, the state's budget was to produce a positive amount of 28.6 billion, and this is so-called adapted according to budget. There is a natural huge difference between this worse product and the worse one, according to recovery, most of it is explained by the overrated income in the 2019 budget by some 63.5 billion dollars. It has to be said, President, that there is a natural problem with the planning of state funds when there is such an enormous overassessment of income and, of course, need an explanation. What went wrong? Why did humans overemphasize this great difference? There has been little evidence of this, but it is necessary to do so. We need to learn from this naturally, and it is very important for the government to have all plans, and, thereby, income plans, to be successful. Here, the anomaly is just too much, so it's 67.4 billion. It was worse than the sum of money. So I went over it again, it was negative to 38.9 billion, but under financial law, it was to be positive for 28.6 billion. You can see that here people simply need to revise their methodology in all of this so that such things do not recur, since, of course, this has a significant impact on financial work and all that comes with it. It was known that one of the large airlines back then was very poor and was headed for bankruptcy. There was a airline that took 35% of all passengers to the country, and that was, in effect, a drop in income for the state funds. It was right around the corner, because I think everyone knew what was coming. But the government chose to ignore it, and that's a natural part of it because this plan is so stupid, it's just that way. The late part of 2018 had begun to shrink, and the multi-talked anti-ministers of the State could have been greater, and better had the government kept the government reasonable in terms of the government's financial affairs. According to economic accounts, $337 billion increased debt. of 2018, a total of 1,947 billion. at the end of 2019 C.E. It's more than a 20% increase in debt. You ask yourself, " What did this debt grow into? ' Did she do business? Did she have any investments? Did she get on the edge of commitment to a pension fund? Now these are the things which shall be before my judgment, that they may have understanding, and that they may need explanation. Doing so is not a great deal of trouble. I don't think it's necessary, and it's important to know why debt goes up so much. Is making wise decisions, or is this being put on a business that will result in no profit at the end of the day? Just looking at the business supply, it was positive at 42 billion dollars. Compared to 84 billion dollars. It should be noted that these measures are not comparable to financial laws. Mr. President. I'm going to go over the financial debt of Pension because it's a very important factor. The unfunded pension debt of the state's budget was 722 billion dollars. By the end of 2019, less than 12% rose, which is more than the previous two years. That's an enormous amount of money, naturally. It's an enormous amount of money, 722 billion bucks. Thus, an unfunded pension debt of less than one quarter of the gross domestic product last year. Then, inexpensive pension bonds increased by more than 20% between 2015 and 2016, and about 17% there in the previous year. In other words, it is the size that only grows and is naturally added to the huge increases in debt that state funds have had to take on because of the virus epidemic, as we know. The pension debt increases with regard to the number of people growing in pensions and how the pay turns into society. This is a concern for government funds for longer periods of time. It must be up to me, Mr. President, to set up a credible and practical schedule to reduce this amount, these inexpensive pension bonds, which are simply too high. This is something that would have to be available from day to day. But it hasn't been done for a long time, so it's just a debt that increases. This kind of commitment grows naturally over the years, and it increases year after year. Those now in charge may not have to worry about it because it is a problem that comes later. Somehow people are pushing this problem ahead of them. But sooner or later, it's a government fund, it's just like that, and every commitment and debt has to eventually pay, we all know it. The same is true of the great increase in debt that the state fund is facing today as a result of the epidemic. This government simply overpowers the problem to the next government, and it is clear that the next government needs to make difficult decisions when it comes to removing the debt of the state due to the virus epidemic. However, it is another matter whether all of this was a wise action and whether they were making enough effort when they opened up to this bank that the state's budget has been in the viral epidemic. We saw that resources, pieces of action such as the partial improvement route, were abused by established enterprises at the time of their introduction. Of course, it is very sad when people are not more concerned about government funds than they were about to misuse their situation that may reveal that the procedure was not well enough and that it would have had to be done much better when the law was given. Certainly, some of these companies have paid it back and should certainly never have accepted these improvements, since they did not need them. But there it is. There are many who seem to forget that the wealth of state is the common fund of all of us and that we all want to have as much power as possible. So these Pension bonds are unfunded at 722 billion, and this need to be added to the current debt of state now quite high. The wealth has added a great deal of debt, and it also makes significant pension bonds on its back. It's a concern, Mr. President, that no regular deposit has been made on the pension debt of the state's funds. We now see the importance of being careful when it comes to the finances of the state, and especially when borrowing and increasing the debt of the state, how to use it, whether it really works out the way it was supposed to be. Of course, all abuse and other forms of abuse that seem to occur in the case of a government fund. It's as if people don't understand that this is a common fund for all of us, and it's important for all of us that he can do his job, which includes. It's to maintain a powerful welfare system, as I mentioned. Mr. President. I've traced what I saw at first glance by going through the accounts of 2019. There are many things you could have done better. Then I may feel that the level of government funds has been underestimated, i.e. They have estimated them far too high to show that the government did not stand firm enough on earth with the development of the economy in the latter part of 2018. It was beginning to slow down in the economy and the worse results that are evident are explained by the lack of income overrated by one 63.5 billion. [[The president calls.]] This is something that we need to see to be much more selective, so we do not have to deal with the problems that this will bring.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u50	A respectable president. I recommend a candidate's interpretation of education policy for the course of 2020,2030. The future vision of academicism to 2030 is based on the mottos: Excellent education for the rest of your life. The main value of education is perseverance, courage, knowledge, and happiness, and it is designed to support the vision ahead. Education is based on five pillars that support future vision and the value of academic policy. First, the pillars have equal opportunities for all, secondly teaching, thirdly aptitude for the future, fourth degree for well - being, and finally for the foreground. Education is the key to opportunities for the future and one of the principal motor forces in human society and prosperity. In times of inequities, uncertainty, and rapid technological revolutions, the nations of the world must prepare for an ever - increasing variance and ever more complex challenges. A respectable president. The future prospects of the Icelandic nation depend on the competitiveness and sustainableness of the Icelandic educational system. Success is based on a well - educated person with creative and critical thinking, social skills, and a good hold in English and foreign languages to cope with global challenges. Education strengthens, protects, and promotes a more resistant person and community. Education will focus on strengthening the attitude of the Icelanders to their own education with a spirit of growth. The search for knowledge never ends, and education, formally and formally, is a subject for life. Schools and other schools should be interesting to the workplace and teachers'work as it is among the most important jobs in society because it lays the groundwork for all other work in the community. To achieve the aims of education, 30 key factors are put forward with the five pillars. Emphasis make it a powerful and flexible system of education that contributes to equal opportunities for study, since all can learn and all are important. Everyone has an opportunity on their own terms and without any discrimination to develop and improve their skills. A respectable president. The proposal then covers the goals and ways necessary to achieve the main objectives set out in the proposal. Education is shaped by the arrival of a number of people and the school community, including the U.S. with the meeting grounds education for everyone in the country all the way in the fall of 2018. In addition, in the fall of 2019, meetings were conducted on education for all in the six regional music schools as well as cooperation with parents, children, young people, professional life, other stakeholders, and the Economic and Development Organization. The policy takes into account international agreements, treaties, and commitments, such as the United Nations Children's Convention, the UN's World Goals for Sustainable Development, and the UN Convention on the Rights of Disappointment. There is an education for all but one key aim to ensure constant access to good education and to promote opportunities for study throughout life. The policy, aim and focus published here has the UN's global objective for sustainable development and international assessments of Iceland's education systems to guide. In this regard it is particularly important that the entire educational system work systematically toward the 4.7 global objective of sustainable development, so that all students gain the necessary knowledge and ability to promote sustainable development, including with an education designed to promote sustainable development and sustainable life - style, by fostering peaceful culture, by human rights, by gender equality, universal awareness, established cultural diversity and cultural contributions to sustainable development. There are also a number of policies and strategies published by the Ministry of Education and Culture in recent years. A respectable president. This policy of education was taken on extensive consultations with stakeholders, including the U.S. published in a crossword puzzle. A total of 38 comments were received that were positive to the course. The reviews made some helpful comments. If the Parliament's decision is adopted, a plan of action, along with a three-year success evaluation plan, will be adopted annually. In turn, the introduction to education is a key to achieving a set goal. Its implementation must be monitored and emphasised on consultation, information and effectiveness measurements. The strategy recommended here is presented in order to deal with the route of excellent education in Iceland. It is my hope that with her approval Iceland will become a powerful and flexible educational system that contributes to equal opportunities for study. I'd like to quote here one Latin proverb that defines education, as follows, by permission of a president: We learn not before school, but for life. That's the point of this academic policy. A respectable president. As such, I suggest that the synopsis proposal be referred to a case at hand. A top-of-the-art Board of Education after a previous discussion. That's my hope. The committee takes time to discuss the suggestion and need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u51	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of education for this beautiful education. There's mainly one question that's on my mind right now and that's done pretty long. The equal rights of children to study, our children's well - being, and the happiness of our children are spoken of, but what about more than 30% of our graduates? Is there no prospect of actually changing the focus of education so that our children can read when they are perhaps nine or ten years old? Where is a policy that indicates that our children should not receive additional study data at 10, 11 and 12 years of age when they are not reading? How do these children stand a chance, the highest. Minister, should they have equal opportunities to study when they are not read? So I ask, isn't it normal to start by blocking the well and building the foundation and making our children read? Then, for example: Is there anything odd, though, that so much evaporation is out of high school when we know that our young people dream of being special when they grow up, but they just run on a wall at high school because there are rich demands and the basis for reading? Can we agree on that, chief? Minister? It's kind of this thing that I like most about, that I like our children to read.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u52	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator on the importance of reading. That is why we have special emphasis on locks, which is part of our educational system becoming much stronger in this regard. There is one aspect of education that is specifically discussed under the A.4, which is early support. He insists that we give our children help sooner, i.e. about five, six, seven, and eight years of age, instead of helping them with the challenges they face during the course of study will later. That's where I'm looking at Finland. We've done a lot of research on how the funds are handled. Specific support will come much later in our lives, just like that. A senator mentions. In this educational policy, we are saying: "Help our children sooner and even without diagnostics. " The teachers are very skilled at seeing who need such help, where dyslexia is, and where learning difficulties are. If we do this sooner, we'll get a lot more results. This is specifically discussed in high school, and my ambition is to support more fully in high school and elementary school so as to reduce the elimination later in high school. You're absolutely right. One senator says: "If they don't read, they won't enjoy the opportunities in life.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The Minister of Education for the Answer. The Finnish way, yes, I completely agree that if we could e.g. making it ours and following our paths find out about educational policy would truly be the right course. But when we talk about early intervention and things like that, I was much more thinking about, since our children are not being dragged in the classrooms and everyone was in mixed classes together, and all of that, how about that little person when he comes six years old to school? Has it not come to the idea of teaching just these subjects, no other subjects, until it is possible to assess the person's reading, that he may even be pulling a staff, just having history, some joy, and making the little person happy as the highest possible. Education minister comes in here, is the children happy and comfortable at school? I see, for example. that ten - year - olds are given a number of additionals that might come in, at least In my opinion and, in my opinion, some years later, when the person is benefiting from it because he only looks at the books. Children are no different than adults. If we see nothing but skimmed, we will become overwhelmed with feelings of inadequacy, and things will be far more overwhelming than they really need to be. Therefore, I ask, and I want an honest answer, to the highest. A minister of education does not see an opportunity, as if she was referring to it right now with the little kids at the preschool, to immediately instill this attitude toward their school, to allow them to enter the elementary school to carry these few subjects until they are read, and then to add more assignments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u54	A respectable president. For reading and strengthening basics in education in the early years, this is of utmost importance. I want to point 'em. What we're working on is an extensive operation program to proceed with this. Let me give you a few shows. For example, the study data is designed to have a balanced view of boys and girls. We are providing much more support for the teacher's work on this objective, i.e. We are conducting a special study in cooperation with educational fields that focus on how we improve children's reading skills and ability to read. We have a special course on nature science and mathematics. They're already producing results. This is what we do to improve this foundation so that we can say in 2030: Here is an outstanding education system in which our children are happy and able to withstand international comparisons. This is what we're doing in a very good partnership with education field. One of the things we're seeing that I'm the most proud of is an increasing attendance at teaching school. As a minister of education and culture, we were watching that in 2032 there would be a great lack of teachers. The first thing I did was to set up a trustworthy plan for how we were going to do this. The government agreed, and we have not seen so much attendance at teachers'studies for decades because of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u55	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. Here are many good words and goals. ▪ We don't learn for school, but for life, it can be said that at this work, I have been reminded that I have at one time seen rephrases from the son of Sveinbjörn, the son of Egilsson, the head of the University of Bessavos, on this proverb. He put it this way. In fact, he was talking to boys: We learn, not to be learned, but to be good. I also think it's a pretty good guide, that education is supposed to become a better person, become good citizens, and get more satisfaction and satisfaction in its life, since education has value in itself. It is enjoyable and good in itself to know, for example. pessimism or the ability to bend irregular French verbs. It can be a source of pleasure, and it has value in itself and helps one become a better person. Above all, it has value in giving us a key, an open door, a key to other living things, perhaps the key to individual life, which helps us to find a better life, with more satisfaction and more meaning. It also has value for society, not only individuals but also for society, because education makes the whole community better, especially that education is one of the most powerful equations we have. If we allow people to learn, find their abilities, and develop them as far as possible, we may at the same time add to the balance in society, both in income and in the opportunity to be admired and to let their light shine in the community, and equalize it may be one of our main competitions because it promotes peaceful society. He gives more people the opportunity to develop their skills and thus contributes to an equalizing and increasing education in society, social reconciliation, and harmony between those who receive more opportunities and those who receive fewer opportunities. This may be one of the main values of education beyond the fact that education helps us to figure out how things work and we are looking at them now in the current Korean crisis that, with amazing speeds, we have found a vaccine against this virus, and this is because the level of education is so high. Only this responsibility, and in this regard, I want to give special attention to one of the factors. paritaprevir Sæland Goland also came in, and that's something that concerns many of us, the reader's article. V.E.G. A minister also made it clear that there is still a plan to be involved even earlier in reading. You see, it is very important that we start much earlier with the support of a hearing, and they need to be in high school. Although there is now much good work to be done in high school, more specific activities need to be done in this regard, especially in children who have Icelandic or non - English language. They're in a particularly delicate position there. Without minimizing the problems of the children who may not have received enough language encouragement in their growing up and having it as first language, there is a very special problem because if we don't get involved, it can contribute to a great deal of civil conflict and division and can lead to the development of many communities in society. The key to this is the language and language lesson, and if it doesn't work well, there can be a time bomb to discuss it because people who may not learn well their native language at home and who are not learning well at school have no language they have learned and have no authority at all. As a result, it may be harder to communicate, causing heartache and conflict, and it may lead to unpleasant communication. It is human right to learn the language spoken in the dominant language of the land as well as possible because of the power of a language. I enjoyed seeing the emphasis on well - being, since school is the place of the children, the workplace of the children. This is the place where children spend most of their time and not even outside of home, children who may be doing much leisure work are perhaps mentioned in the home from all places where they are most at school, and for some children living under difficult circumstances at home, school can be a sanctuary that is extremely important and very important as such, and it plays a most important role as such. However, we also have examples of children who experience feelings of distress at school, perhaps increasing feelings of distress as they grow older and competitive, and those feelings of inadequacy that their children can experience at school, social or study. And it is possible, without me now wanting to judge too much about it, that the emphasis in the school system is, in spite of large reforms indeed, still too one - sided, there is still too much emphasis on learning outside, reading books to gain knowledge through it, and perhaps too many children still focus on their weaknesses rather than on developing well. However, in this as a matter of fact, there is no room for generality. I want to end this short talk by rephraseing what I first stressed, equationd to be a complete key and guide to the molding of academic policy. To improve the balance in the community, we need education to increase the equation in the school system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u56	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator, in my opinion, considered a very good review of education. And because he knew exactly where the motto came from in education, as he put it, I suppose, by the permission of a president, I intend only to review the text of the book that comes from, Menón by Platón. It's in the entrance there, and I think it's okay. A senator has even some pleasure in this: ▪ The aim of a school education is in the eyes of a Sveinbjörn Bear in the effort to make a human - this is a little old text, a man - a well - informed and good man. In his first school talk from the fall of 1819 when he himself had just left school, he reasoned. There he endeavored to demonstrate the relativeity and benefit of knowledge and virtue on the grounds of human perception and self - determination. The perfection of man involves cultivating these two identifying characteristics, knowledge, and virtue. This is what education is meant to promote with men, to equip them to bring about the right respect for the world and for ourselves. A Sveinbjörn's view was challenged by quoting from the Latin proverb ◯ We learn, not before school, but before life, which means that in the school address: We learn not to be educated, but to be good. So I loved it. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson would quote this. [[The president calls.]] - It's way too early, Mr President. I'll be back in a little bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers who was learned, and I'm not going to stand here to answer Platónn and Santa Sveinbjörn Egilsson, and all those fighters. Perhaps I would like to take advantage of the opportunity she gave me to make one thing that I did not have time to make up for in my talk and that may be associated with those thoughts of learning and virtue. I think it's very important to stress it in academic policy, and may even sharpen it, to further this training. I think it is the key to the successful society in the coming days that we will be able to build bridges in which they are somehow a little bumping between education, secular education, between education, and then between university education. In between, I believe there should be a highway. We may have been too much inclined to view this as a contrast, aramish knowledge, and so on, the use of our hands and brain at once. I think I'm right about the fact that research revealed that Iceland is in such low-level seats as to the application to occupational and industrial education. And I think there may be work to do for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u58	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator on the importance of promoting work, industry and technical studies. That's exactly what they're talking about in a new education program, by permission of a president: A future cognitive community calls for increased emphasis on occupation, industry, and technology. Such a study will be guided by the development of skills to the needs of society and the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution. I can inform the council about what we've been doing, we're putting an extra focus on this, and now, for the first time, we've taken together academics which is comparable to what the Economic and Development Organization has been doing. It turns out that about 30% of those who choose high school education choose schooling. It also turns out that there is a very similar proportion of people going e.g. We're in the same place. It has also been shown in these statistics, if we live together in Iceland and Denmark, that Danir would classify Iceland's Shopping School as an apprenticeship. So the statistics we've been watching at times are not quite comparable. I'll publish our findings in the next few days. I want to say what, too. A senator that I am about to enter a bill of interest that we are even further opening at the university stage with this bridge, i.e. that high school graduates can apply for higher education. One of the things we can see is that parents often advise their children not to go to school because they feel that they are closing some other prospect. [[The president calls.]] So it's all just about as far as it's concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u59	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is looking forward to her information on these figures. And speaking of bridges and monuments, I think it is as important to build bridges, other bridges, those from Icelandic literature, and to those who come here and have received their education abroad. It has been observed that they have not received enough education here in Iceland, so they have not had their jobs and may not have been allowed to enjoy themselves and their skills in the community for that reason. In this regard, let us remember that the people who developed the vaccine in Germany are of Turkish echoes. It is a type of immigrant person, some of whom have even little regard and believe that little is available to the communities, many of whom are closer. It is very important for Icelandic society to come to knowledge and that cultural currents should pass into society and give it freshly fertileness. I think building such bridges is also important in our academic policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u60	V.E.G. President. It's really good to be standing here when it's recommended education. As chairman of the oldest political force in the country, I cannot resist the temptation to quote the first category of policy. As everyone knows that there has been some knowledge of history, the category of academics has been very thoughtful and in the first category of policy adopted on January 12, 1917, according to the President's permission: ▪ The common education, which the Party considers to be the head of all nations, wants policy boundaries and supports, especially by increasing education and the development of a school of youth in rural areas and public schools for men and women in four quarters of each country. The higher education also wishes the pack to act on and maintain the scientific mark of Iceland in the air... Those words have all stood the test of time, but it's nice to say that this level of education presented here is based on work that the grass roots of the pack have worked. On the 100th birthday of the 2016 class, a group was set up to shape educational policy. It's great to be in a strong category, where the subversive work is coming all the way into the hall of the Generals. Thus politics are to be active. V.E.G. President. As we all know, the work of teachers is one of society's most important jobs. Education is the key to a better working environment for teachers. It is important that schools and other schools become desirable places of work and teachers. It's good to be a teacher, but I'm sure it'll be even better if this resolution is accepted. Education opens the door. All should have equal opportunities for education on their own terms and without discrimination. We all have some skills, but the key to developing talent is a good access to education, where everyone can learn and everybody really cares. Education guides are perseverance, courage, knowledge, and happiness. Those words speak a lot. They guide the government, education institutions, teachers, and students, and they are what we need to apply because with those words in our school bag, we get closer together. All of us need endurance, perseverance in coping with challenges, large and small, and not giving up, though it may be, the courage to accept new challenges. Then there is knowledge, the importance of continuing to share knowledge, and the importance of being receptive to new knowledge. Then it is happiness, but being guided by happiness and compassion will make things easier. I want to believe that happiness can be a matter of decision. V.E.G. President. The education policy is based on five lines that support the future and its value. Pillars include: Full - scale opportunities for everyone, top - order teaching, future skills, and foreground well - being. It would be too long to intend to enter all aspects of education, but I'll draw out some of it. School of education is a guide to study with all merits. Schools and other institutions should take into account the needs, abilities, and abilities of each student, working out each student's strengths and interests. I welcome this team of academicism because the drop of students has been a concern and with increased emphasis on this team - which we have certainly been working on, and I know that teachers have placed great emphasis on this in their jobs - then we can take steps to help students more fully and make sure that everyone finds themselves in the education system. We need to meet each student in his place. V.E.G. President. In high school, the importance of reading has also been established. Reading is part of our culture. Yesterday, on the day of the Icelandic language, a study of reading was presented by the Central Institute of Literature. The results of the survey show that reading has increased, and especially the use of audio books. The most productive readers are women and children's families. Reading is the most powerful tool students can take in knowledge and language in speech and literature is essential to participation in a democracies community. Thus, education is particularly focused on speech, reading ability, expression, writing, and listening, and action aimed at dealing with reading disorders. Education is also involved in the importance of early support, but it is recommended that children and young people be helped and helped before the problem progresses. Support may focus on the student himself or his surroundings. It will show that it is important to adapt support to the needs of sensitive individuals and groups. I rejoice greatly because I trusted teachers to read and understand their students. They are in the best position to help students, discern their position, and continue to help them. All too often I have to wait for analysis, and I know the example of the country that there have been problems and that it has not gone the way it should. So this is a very good point I celebrate. V.E.G. President. By supporting these factors; study for all, increasing support for reading, speaking ability, and understanding as well as for the early support of those in need, we can prevent the loss of qualified individuals who give up early in study. With this direction and its contribution, we have a good tool to make sure that all are allowed to thrive in the school system. V.E.G. President. The task of politics is to work toward progress, influence, and benefit society at any given time. I really want to thank you very much. Secretary of education for following this up, putting this in here, doing a lot of work and doing it well. For our benefit, I wish the Committee and I members of the Parliament that they would well continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u61	A respectable president. We keep talking about education, and I'm not going to add much. In fact, my heart is the problem that confronts one third of our children in school. On the other hand, I wish for the highest. Secretary of education on policy, it's just full of optimism and smiles and love in every direction. However, I may not have felt that it was entirely right for me to boast of a 100 - year - old high school education class that has led to, in the case of, a third of our boys to graduate from the tenth class of ill reading or poor reading. I hope that's not what the Specialist Party wants to write about in its 100-year great education, but then, with some joke, it could have been taken. Anyway. I am still trapped in what I think is the most important thing in education, actually making the way of teaching at the beginning of school with all the things that are being called for, with equality for study, with joy at school, with happiness and perseverance and all that. You just can't be happy at school if a student is 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 years old and does not understand what goes on at school. It's kind of like a fault with us here, and it's been over and over again that, after ten years of primary school, so much of our children are being read badly, practically illiterate, by poor reading sense. Now we have our best. Education Ministers have been fighting to do good things for three years of this ideal period, there's not much left of the election season, but we're going to be satisfied with getting this education policy. It doesn't change the fact that I don't know that reading sites have improved during the period with our children. I can't see it, so when I talk about changing the way they teach, I don't think that nine or ten - year - olds get any religion or any other science, geography or history or anything, whatever another language, when there's no talking on their own, much less reading. It is said to bring joy to your children. There are many of them who are very shy. There's a lot of them inside. It's hard to draw them out. They are different, as there are many of them. But in every one of them there is a treasure hidden, hidden. How do we draw out the human race with the whole body unless this education is allowed to flourish for all of them, with balance, balance to study equality, joy, happiness at school, and well - being in what they are doing? How, though, do we contribute to this well - being? We know that our children are too sincere, and they are open and truthful. They come to the door as they're dressed and there are the adults who say: Hush, don't say that, kus, don't do this, don't be like that, don't be queer, because you don't fit into the community we've built around you. I don't think it's a good thing to do. On the other hand, I would have liked to see the little person come to school, where he is encouraged to say what he is doing now, how he is feeling today, and how he is encouraged to share his feelings with others. I don't feel that teaching is individualized, that we just step outside the box, and we don't always stuff ourselves in the same box, as we do so often because there are hidden treasures that never get to live and enjoy themselves, never ever. When our children get older, they get the expectations of learning and doing something, such as Industrial education or education in any way, but now there is a growing reading problem among young girls. Now they are approaching what our boys are dealing with. It is not enough to present a beautiful scene. We must also say how we will make it come true and what we can do to help our children so that their beautiful education can flourish for all children. The fundamental thing, and I'm just stuck there, is to draw out the little person as soon as he gets to school and make him strong and locked up, make him feel good, don't let him go outside, don't let him go out into the corner and make fun of him, don't be harassed. It will be a time for all our children of foreign origin and all of our children who will be left behind, just because they also have a problem with their language. It's a big challenge, but I believe that with the good standing and the well - being of all the good things and the better specialists we have, who come to our children, they come to any subject of foreigners or other languages, we will be able to make this educational policy a reality. But I would like to see that it worked faster and better, and I would like to see that the textbooks would be taken out of the first few years of life something I consider unnecessary while our children have not read. Why put too much burden on yourself when you cannot bear the load? Why not promise to step into it and rejoice to see that we are now receiving a new book because we can read it? It is just as dull to get the new book and not know exactly what it says because the fact is that if it is hard to learn to read and get into it at first, the little person's feelings of anxiety and lack of appreciation will grow, and even if he can do better, he is in such a difficult position because he feels he cannot do well enough. Although they are not long years old, they know exactly how they feel, and it is for us to read them. It's our adult people to help them see how we do it, and if that means we have to step out of some solid frame that says they should learn Danish at age 10 or English 11 and just bring it all together, we should do it. They are to learn about Buddhism, Hinduism, and all forms of religion, and they are to be taught throughout all lands and capitals and history. Everything's great. But wouldn't it be better for them to know all of this when they graduate from the tenth grade, have learned all of this by then, and would also be the blues? So why don't you just push aside some of the stuff that's totally tearing them apart? A respectable president. Let us not forget that the community, the family structure we live on in this society, is simply that much of what our children should learn is done at home. For many, homework is involved, and both parents are working outside, i.e. Those who haven't already lost their jobs in a tragic year's trip today, let's be aware of that. A parent who comes home exhausted after a long day's work and will learn his exhausted child how to read or anything is not jealous. Rather, we should have family responsibilities, that our children learn and take care of everything in school. They come home after their long hours, they are tired as we are, and then they are not to take over a new job. In this case, do not accept the postal work. They have been at work since eight o'clock in the morning, and the rest of us have no time for work, so I say: Being together and finishing up at work could be more enjoyable and could focus on our children. There would be more joy in the home. We can enforce our education policy as the highest. A minister of education comes here, this beautiful and optimistic education policy, which shows nothing but favor to all and to all, but we must do it by stepping outside the box. If we are really going to teach our children to read them, we must do more than talk about some early intervention. There's got to be another one. They need to be removed from some of the cells they're getting on their shoulders when they're not reading in the second and third grade. That is all you can do, for otherwise you are not feeling well. In fact, I have nothing more to say, it's my heart that we're not so flagrantly low in written form. If we carry, for example. With countries around us, we just don't do well enough when it comes to training our children, unfortunately. But I say just optimism and smile, and I believe that all of us here are ready, and all who come to these matters, to put their arms around it, and I'm ready to support the highest. The Minister of Education in all her good deeds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u62	A respectable president. I just want to review some aspects of education in order to answer any concerns. paritaprevir Sæland-Elaand has. When some aspects of education are considered, the first part is the study of all aspects. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Society is obliged to provide the best for the well - being of young people and to ensure all the opportunity to develop and thrive within the educational system. It is important to make sure that everyone is found in the educational system and that there is equality within it. Exactly what it is. A senator is concerned. The fact is, if a boy lives outside the capital area and has a native language, he does not achieve as well in education. That is why the first team says there must be equality within the educational system. A team number two, education across the country, class should not influence the possibility of study, should take on these factors just because we see that there is a difference. The third factor, a wide variety of communities: ◯Island is a population of people using the resources involved in large - scale school activities, celebrating the diversity of students, and using them to promote society. That is exactly where we are dealing with children whose mother tongue is different from English. For the first time, a comprehensive policy has been set to reach this group. For the first time, there are places to evaluate the ability and skills of these children when they enter the education system. I couldn't agree more. A senator says we need to do better. But when we review education, it's clear where we're going. This will be an excellent educational system in 2030.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u63	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. As I said before, I have nothing to go to academicism as such, it is radiantly beautiful, as it says. There's nothing missing. There is no need for optimism, smiles, and best work and balance the student's situation across the country with doing everything for everyone. What I'm talking about is that it's not enough. I don't feel that it's enough to have this on paper, rather than just a government contract or anything else, about the good desire for good works. In effect, I wanted to see a plan of action, a very rigid plan on how to get the top. A minister of education will intend to handle the problems I've been talking about here, which has been a huge problem in my mind since I arrived at the council and since I studied the circumstances of many children in reading ability. When I talk about changing my teaching plans, maybe some study tools, and doing this, I'm talking about action, not just putting words on paper. I reiterate at the highest. Minister that I'm not putting on academic policy as such, not at all. I'm just saying, I feel like we need to do better. I feel that we need to break down certain walls and change the emphasis that our children have put into the position they are today. If we don't, this situation will not change, then a certain group, far too much, of both boys and girls who graduate from the 10th class of bad read and with poor reading understanding, will actually have no future in the educational system for the future, no one. I'm sorry. I want to see changes in it become reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u64	A respectable president. Well, that's so good, then. paritaprevir Sæland Goland, picking up education and seeing how we're going to do this because of course you've been thinking about this. [[Up front.]] It says, by permission of the President: There will be three periods of separation in education. At the beginning of each period, the induction programme will be submitted with action and effectiveness measures. The first schedule will be submitted and introduced by the minister within six months of the approved proposal. Hv. A senator referred to it and said that there was not much change back then. Results from the PsIA International Education Study were published in 2018 or 2018, excuse me, this could be a mismatch for me. [[Up front.]] - 2018. Of course, that was a survey that took place in 2015, 2016. So we are now and have been developing a policy that is designed to cover both our core goals and our thinking on equality for study and that everyone is so important to us. But we also want to be on the front side of an equal. It was this way in the year 2000 that Iceland was in second place when it involved reading ability. But that has changed, and we have considered the reasons for it. Our education reflects what we need to do in order to promote reading and understanding. We know who we need to help better. I'd like to mention, too, that the government went on to give support to a book edition. What has happened? In one year, the publishing of children and young literature increased by 47%. Of course, this is so that our children may have more material to read.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u65	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for. I don't really have anything more to say. I repeat, it's not enough to have a nice education policy, and it's not enough to say on page and PISA checks and this and that. We would suffer as bad and as bad as possible if we compared ourselves with the neighboring nations so I wouldn't even mention it here. But once again, I repeat that I feel that we should read our children before thinking anything else. I feel that the only direction on the whole magazine should be to read every child in Iceland, wherever they live, so that they will have as much opportunity for the future as for a study for the future. It all depends on their reading, writing, and calculating. These articles have often been considered to be our basics in everything and that follow us through our entire education system and our whole life. The walls must be crushed, making it possible for our children to still sit many, far too many at the same time, at the very thought of being virtually unlocked. That's why I say again: If there were any changes to see, if there were any recessions in doing measurements and examining how our children are angry with - but this ill reading or poor reading ability doesn't seem to be running out, unfortunately. I can't better see, given the words of the teachers I've talked to, than that there is simply a loss in reading, and they don't understand Icelandic, hardly understand many words and terms that we've usually used, and so on. They just seem to be falling out of it. This is a serious situation, a respectable president. I think this is a serious situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u66	A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal for a conference resolution on academic policy for the year 2020-2030. This document looks like a really cool course and a really cool bandage, but I hope it's not just a bandage but a content and seeing to it that we take our school system through and jump it up. As mentioned earlier, a PISA survey of 2018 found that 34% of the boys had trouble understanding simple texts. Of course, that is a serious matter. It also tells us that in college, as the standard is today, 30% are boys and 70% are girls. It must reflect that. Looks like the boys were sitting around in the school system somehow. We must also realize that in the system boys are more likely to use illegal material, they are more likely to be mass users of harassment, and their identity is broken, at least in one of them, especially if they get behind in the school system and do not read or understand well. That puts us in a serious position. That's what it says. As a result, they may be released from school. If we look, for example. The prisons then deal with problems with reading, that is a serious issue, and 50% of them suffer from hyperactivity, attention deficit, or ADHD. You see, there's also a pot in our system that's broken. There are waiting lists for this analysis in the system today, and we are even in the weird position that there are sort of waiting lists to get to the main waiting list, which, of course, is quite terrible and embarrassing because these are the ones who need the most help and are in the highest risk of getting out of their shoes. There are other factors, such as those who are deaf, blind, or disabled in some way. That system also needs to take into account a thorough review. They need more help, more professional knowledge, and better access to them. We can also predict what our system can be without mercy or strange. We may be with parents of long - suffering children and disabled ones, and they may be strengthened. The parent may want to take advantage of this situation, taking only one course at school. Just one course. But then they'll lose their benefits. Then they are punished rather than rewarded. This may be a doctor who's going to take one semester at school, nurse, professor, or carpenter who wants to take advantage of this, but then we're punishing them. We can't do these things. There's something wrong with this whole thing. We've created a particular box in the education system today, but unfortunately, not all of us fit into the box. We need to start thinking about him, we need to activate the individual. I think it's getting to the point where we have to jump up to a lot of school parts. It's very strange to go through the school system and not read, to read, but to learn language, geography, to learn things that you cannot learn because you don't have the foundation. The system does not seem to be able to react to this, and then these individuals will just be left behind. This is where we need to respond. I think this course is quite shiny and that it's a study for everyone, it's just great. Besides, I can't see any more than that there's supposed to be an increase, for example. Work, industry, technology. It's just great if we start making the articles higher under the education system, because we can't and are not going to do anything else today. Of course, art, engineering, schooling, industry, and technology are the future. But as I put it here, the main thing is to build locks. Besides, we must not forget one of the most important factors in the mental age of D.2. It's an object that must be handled very well, because it's broken. There is also another factor that appears here, and that is the voice of the students. As soon as I saw this, the voice of the students, I remembered that sometime we were at a meeting with students, and they said, "Yes, we get to join, and yes, we're called in committee, but there's nothing to listen to us. It doesn't bring back anything. That must be really painful. It's said, "Now we're dealing with your business, you're joining the committee, and you're allowed to join. " It is as if they are allowed on the train, but they feel that they are wasting time, precious time for this job, and that they are not listening. This has shown up a little bit in this situation, in the Covid cases, then it was specifically pointed out. The students felt very hurt, which is understandable because you want to be heard, we all want to. That's why I say we should activate these young people who want to come and participate in their jobs and point out the flaws of the system. We should listen and especially use what they say to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u67	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate these discussions at the council. They are very important, and they come right into the core of this educational policy. I realize as Minister of Education and Culture, that today's most mobile force is education. If a young boy or a young girl does not have a certain sense of instruction when she has reached a certain age, the opportunity will be greatly reduced. I'm going to take as an example one of the things that we see and that we've been doing, and I'm going to mention the United States in this context. In the United States, where education or innovation has not been invested sufficiently, there will be no new work. The people are leaving those kingdoms. We know the same thing in Iceland. If we do not take care of strong local education, there will be an inequities. I think education is just what we're talking about here. I'd like to mention something else. In time, I was vice president of the Board of Education, Reykjavík, U.S.A. One of our special priorities was that of children with a language different from English, and that of looking after the boys. Prior to that time, this had not been emphasized. That's what we need to do on national level. These factors are exactly wrapped in education. And already it is. paritaprevir Sæland Goland noted that there is no point in quoting any pages, etc., then I would say, "Yes, that's very good, because it's the U.S. Congress's promise that there will be an excellent educational system here in 2030.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u68	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this input. I agree that if we get this education forward, it's just the best. But there's something else that's characteristic of the school system and that you've run into, i.e. efforts of the system to identify, e.g. that boys who have problems with reading or reading are perhaps geniuses in something else. We often forget to activate them. We ourselves know that if we really enjoy something, we'll drink it in. If we feel that something is really boring, then it is very difficult to deal with it. You've done that a lot. They may be computer geniuses, and that part needs to be activated. You need to make sure that you don't have to be a genius in geography or a genius to read religious literature or something else in order to go to a computer study, not to hold it down so that you can take what you want to do. We don't have to put ourselves in a box, not everyone needs to be a genius in geography or something, but the question is, Do you like what you're doing? And activate it so that even a person can become a genius in computer science or in what he really enjoys and encourages it in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u69	A respectable president. It is true that we must have passion for what we are doing to succeed. That is why we stress that education is for everyone and that study is subject to individual interest and abilities. The education system has to be the big thing that it's gonna get over it. On the other hand, it is true that in these fine discussions, if the child does not have sufficient reading understanding, he will not develop a certain passion for the subject. Therefore, we must support our children sooner. It is much easier to help a young boy who is suffering from dyslexia at the age of five, six, and seven, than at the age of 12 and 13. As it is today, it may never have been so important for our children to have good diction and reading ability because they use brilliant devices very much and a child who has difficulty moving his thinking down to a magazine or through a smart device will also become socially isolated. So there's a lot of money, and I think Iceland is such a community that we can make it through this. We know exactly what to do and how to do it. I'd also like to mention one thing, I'd probably do it in the next counter, on reading understanding, and on how the vocabulary has been developing, which is one of the key changes in reading ability. I'm gonna go over it better from here on out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u70	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this input, and I completely agree with her. But it's a little strange when you start wondering how many forms the dyslexic can appear, that's just weird. You have seen that a child can read upside down and not gay. English may be a genius, but it is not easy to read English in English. Some can learn to read with clay, i.e. by claying the letters. There are many versions of how individuals learn to read. That's why I feel like, for example. The reading system we have already read has become too monotonous. Yes, it may include a large proportion of dyslexics, but there are always some who fall outside because the system is not open enough to all the possibilities of today's technology and that are being used, especially for boys with dyslexia and how they see things. It has often been claimed that the greatest of today's geniuses were dyslexic, even with ADHD and the whole package, and that they have a different 3D perception than others, which also has an effect. These are people who may think differently, but these may be geniuses. We must also realize that if we are not careful to help each one, we could miss out on some sort of genius.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u71	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the past on academic policy. Their approach is that they bear all the best in themselves and highlight all the best we try to bring out. It's a course of nature. Of course, the way we accomplish this depends on us, subjecting ourselves to the State. It's up to those who work with policy, i.e. The staff, of course, the institutions involved, and the communities as well. I think it's important to speak to the syllabus, and that we agree if there's anything missing here or if there's anything here that we need to look at or something else, so these two important policies talk together, i.e. The syllabus, which, of course, is a basic education program. There's been a lot of things going on, and since I come from the school system, my blood runs out to my duty. I may have thought that it was a little dark that someone drew up earlier. My experience, experience, and knowledge of the school system are at least Because there are very productive people there who are working hard to keep their education in a wide variety of ways. This was just before learning to read through a game. This, of course, is one thing that is done when children come from high school into high school. School systems speak even more today than they did. It's an enormous trend that hasn't occurred in so many years, in my opinion, at least That, of course, is one of the factors. Truly, we face many challenges in our school schools. There are children who do not live as well as others or who have problems and are often complicated by solutions that fit everyone's needs. I'd like to let me say that teachers do their best to try. The objective, of course, is to improve the skills of all students in achieving their general well - being and caring for their individual needs. So I've thought of many times and times, and there's been a lot of discussions and talk over the years, that school work is and that it's been a bit numbed for minutes and all that. Although the work has changed in some respects as well, some have found that there has been trouble over the years. That's one of the things I think we need to rethink somehow. It's running a little bit through collective contracts and the minutes under there. It certainly sets a limit, and we may not have had enough success in working with it in my opinion. I think it's important for the student to achieve complete results. It is said that, as mentioned earlier, learning through a game. It is this creative thinking and knowledge of work that enhances skill, including skill. to read. Once a student is comfortable with what he is doing, he is quicker to make the reading his own. Because this talk about the long hours of a student's working day, my final assignment and my partner, including my wife, was discussed. about homework. I think it should be the least, but it should always be in the form of reading. There are also many ways to do so at home. There is no need to be required after working hours. There are many ways and, above all, parents need to take the time to care for it, not to be doing something else while they are listening. It was discussed about PISA and that everyone is put in the same box, but PISA certainly puts students in the same box. It is a controversial guide for the results of students and the quality of school work, as is the case with most tests that are consistent with some kind of test. I don't think it's ever gonna be that everyone likes it, but I'm sure it's good to have a reference. Of course, we need them so that we can pull on something. But we can't get stuck in them, since basic schools, as well as high school, have a wide range of study assessments where students have their talents. I just wanted to come up here where I think it's important. I can't wait to work with the case when we get it discussed in the General and Education Committee, and I hope we can handle it fairly quickly because we're gonna have a good plan here, plan to implement a three-time strategy, and it's important to be able to start as soon as possible after it. It will be interesting to see how it works after the first six months. We can then continue to wonder if something needs to be corrected or if we have done particularly well with something and then why. This job is just a matter of searching it out every day. I'm glad we have a policy. I think it matters that we have tools to work with, and I agree with what people have talked about, that they agree with the policy, that it's extremely nice and all that. As I said in the beginning, policies are supposed to be that way, but it is important that we make the knots so that schools can follow that course. There we are responsible here for the General Assembly, as well as for our communities. Because we've been talking so much about this challenge for Covid, I like the news coming from an increase in reading in those times - but two research has been done at a time - and especially since children are at home. I find that very positive, and I hope it will continue even though our freedom will soon be more so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u72	A respectable president. I am kind and obliged to make a reply and to review what was said only in the matter of conversation. A candidate with the main course. Of course, we'll discuss it because the interaction of all aspects of the education system and the harmony between them is very important. We're under E.2.'s nose, by permission of a president: ▪ Studyal files should reflect educational policies and support future ability. They will be re-evaluated with this in mind and ensure that they support the international commitment of Iceland. Emphasis on the fact that there are a wide range of study aids that take into account the potential for digital communication and multiplicity of students. This is to ensure that education policy interaction is played out with the main school course for all schools. When we were preparing for education, the curriculum was, of course, a basic tool in it, as I think it would be. A senator sees. I think it's very important that we discuss that an agreement is an agreement on future education policy and that the General agrees on these five pillars, i.e. Just as an opportunity for everyone, a teaching of the highest order, a ability for the future, a well - being for the rest of the day, and a quality of the foreground. It is also possible to build on such a basis that our approach to education is consistent and predestination. We also used a lot of statistics when we were putting our education together and seeing where we could do better, who we would need to be more supportive. This led to education.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u73	A respectable president. I thank the minister the answer. I just think that this fundamental piece of paper was just a factor when it was being won. What I'm wondering may be that terms like self-sustaining and other things that I thought could be expressed, terms that we emphasized when we were changing the syllabus last year as an enormous amount of work went on. There may be one thing or another that I would like to read together. But I agree with the highest. The minister and the people here have spoken of that this is a fine document, and the emphasis is briefly considered. Because I come from the study and professional counseling, I know that there were comments there that asked for more detailed text there. As with so many other things, people are likely to want to make a success of themselves. I guess it all turns out when we start working on a committee and get reviews of things that will probably be primarily from our school society and from our communities as well, I would think. At least I'm happy with this document because I think it's very important that we have this frame. It will guide us on how we want to see this for a long time, as the minister mentioned, but also on the ways we need to do so. It is very important that we can anticipate them when it comes to the induction process, that we see at each point the standards, actions, and all of that. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u74	A respectable president. It is clear that sustainability is very important, and this education policy, of course, reflects all the international commitments associated with the global objectives, education for everyone, sustainability and other things. This, of course, is to be kept in mind when working on education. It also has to say, as it is, when we were winning the Senate arrangement itself, I had to shorten it a little, so I am completely honest. This was the way it was made. I'm a very co-worker, and if anything gets out of hand. I'm very open to it. The conclusion was first 30 pages, so I'll say it right now. If something has fallen out that we don't want, I'm just very open to the fact that it's revised, so I'll tell you why. That's what a senator's got to do with it. As mentioned in my history, the focus for sustainable development was high. I think things will live longer if the approach is self-sustained in all things, whether it's a payment equation, reading a child, or a parent's appearance. That is also true of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u75	Mr. President. I don't have much to add. I'm totally saying that this kind of paper is supposed to be targeted. As mentioned at the outset, of course, the underlying effectiveness parameters, strategies, and so forth are underlying, i.e. how to get things done. In itself, there is nothing better to have the text for a very long time. That's exactly what we came to the point of going over, whether we feel that something has fallen out, or if we can accept it as it happens. At least I'm very pleased with the mood, and I think it should be possible to win quite quickly and safely on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u76	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture to congratulate you on this academic policy. I think it's a good example that we're discussing it here at the council. As shown in the counter, it is short and specific, but it seems quite well-enacted to me those key elements that I think we should all agree on. Sadly, I failed to keep track of the many discussions that have been discussed in this matter. That was because I had a meeting with young environmentalists. I mention it here because I feel that we're all too often talking about where our youth is really going and what the problems are in our education system. But after attending a meeting with young environmentalists who have requested to meet here with all members of the council, I thought, " Wow, how cool are these young people who have the means to contact members of the council and to promote their affairs in a poetic and cool manner? ' It's just been coming to us for a while. A financial and business committee of young women from high school who reasoned that the benefits of a menstrual cycle should be cut off. I was now active in my younger years, but I would not have considered writing a message to the council and making such recommendations. I think we can be proud of our young people, and then there must be something super good about education, since young people are the way they are. At the beginning of this discussion, I noticed. paritaprevir Sæland Goland spoke for the Icelandic and read that should matter to all things and that perhaps all that is to be taught should be done. I really don't want to go that way. I have three children, at least two of them with dyslexia, and I have had great difficulty learning to read and feel bored because everything that is difficult is usually boring. Then it is so important that our school trains children on the youngest level and has a wide range of study opportunities so that the kids can see where their strength is and grow through it. I think it's really important. Then it came only to my discussion with the extra articles that I think are important, but I realize that in politics and in older ones, we may have been way too hard on it, as I have heard some teachers say, throwing all kinds of jobs into the school system. Unfortunately, it's just that we live in a changed society, and we make a lot of demands for our institutions, and a lot more demands than were ever made. We can also thank qualified people who work in school. The last few months have truly proved that there are qualified people who have somehow managed to put up with all their work in Covid's time and cope with extreme limitations. But everything I've seen has been very well done and that people deserve very much. I just wanted to come into it as the highest possible. The minister mentioned earlier the importance of both genders and the importance of study material, wanting to mention the teaching methods and equipment of schools. I have, as I said before, three children, I have two boys, and at least one boy is absolutely certain that the school is completely tailored to girls, not boys. And whatever we may feel about it, whether it is right or wrong, it's his experience and it's bad. So we need to keep in mind that both sexes and, of course, all individuals experience themselves so that they and their needs are being watched. It seems to me that the policy is very good, and we've been talking for a long time for an individual study. On the other hand, the question is, How do my shoes meet the requirements of individual study? We need to take special care of that, and I'm also pointing it to the highest. Education Minister to pay particular attention to the schools. I look especially at the basic schools that are under the custody of our rural society, which we know are now dealing with a significant loss of income and have to look closely at the business. Then I'd also like to sharpen our unit leaders to hold the schools. I think we've all learned it in our last crisis that it doesn't pay to save the money when it comes to our school system. I wanted to mention here in particular chapter C of education, about your potential for the future. It's all very important, so it's hard to put it into order of importance, but dot No. 6, Creation and Criticism, I believe, is the basis for the future, i.e. that our children have critical thoughts, I don't talk about at a time of community media, where information flows and children have devices in their pocket, where they can get information about almost everything. As a result, they need to have a lot of critical thoughts in order to understand what is right and true and what questions to ask when information flows. The same is true of creation. In times like this, when technology is always taking over new things, there is one thing we know that technology will not take over and that is creation and the ability to look outside the box and find new ways to create new things. I'd also like to mention chapter D, just like that. I agree with that, and there's dot No. 2, about mental activity, and how important it is in times like this. We've talked a lot about mental health, about the availability of psychologists, and we've taken a big step in this hall, and the highest. Healthcare Ministers also, in promoting mental health and our bioavailability in the treatment of such. There you need to think on things and to be on guard even when it comes to mental - health issues. Health supplies are in there. 1st Of course, health and mental well - being are totally intertwined. We have long taught children how important it is to eat wholesome food and move, to know something about it. What, though, about cultivating mental health and teaching children how to deal with different emotions? It is frightening how much anxiety and often and often I think that young people can be met more quickly by simply teaching them to deal with different emotions, using mental behavior therapies, so that not everyone needs the services of our excellent health care providers, but some may be able to help themselves with specific precautions. But I wish. The top-of-the-art Board of Education is a team on this and thinks it's important, because we all know that the basis for our well-being systems is in our education.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u77	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator on the importance of diversity in our educational system. Of course, we focus on improving our understanding of reading, and I am aware that it is quite important. As we have seen during the discussions, we see to it how much prisoners struggle with reading problems. It's always been very difficult for a person to see that the educational system has ever failed these individuals or that they needed much more help in the past. As explained in my case here earlier, there is a difference between when the Icelandic education system comes to help when it comes to reading problems, we've been doing it in late stages, when the children are older, while, for example, they are older. The Finnish education system comes in earlier and with more support. And what will happen then? This will reduce the need for support later, making the person better fallen or in a better position to get his or her education. I believe that what was said in the case of the day. A senator, of creation and criticism, was all important in these days because it is very easy to gain knowledge, but do you understand the knowledge, can you criticize it? Hence, we give priority to this aspect that, of course, has always been of great importance and especially now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u78	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Of course, a minister who answers, and I agree to read and understand completely, is the basis for any other study, that is. In fact, I have to say, and when I discuss these matters - I have many good friends who are trained, but I'm not - I'm not gonna pretend to be an expert. I am no more expert than I have learned to read and teach three children to read. I have long irritated myself, so I just use that word, focus on fast reading, and speaking words every minute because I feel that reading is so much more important. In these analyses, kids are often able to get good reading, but it only turns out in late stages that their reading skills are missing. Of course, it is far more important than the speed of working with a person, especially when further into the study. But it is important that we do our reading so that children will enjoy reading, and we will, of course, come into books. But we can also, in general, see the availability of all kinds of study data because they are no longer just books, there's a lot on the Internet, YouTube and stuff. Today's children gain their knowledge of different media, and we need to pay particular attention to the English language. I'll agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u79	A respectable president. I want to tell you what. A senator says that we are now developing a set of standards, or measuring instruments, to measure reading skills, so that the reading rate and reading skills work together. One of the things we see when we consider the international education study, PISA, which differs in her opinion, is that our children's understanding of reading is getting smaller. Of course, we ask ourselves: " Wait, what's going on? One thing is that the vocabulary of children in Icelandic language is not enough. If you don't understand, if I remember correctly, 88% or 90% of what's in front of you, then the ability to reason and the critical thought needed to solve the problem is reduced. That's why we're about to go up the vocabulary. We're developing courses and going to work development to support him better and get him back up again, if you don't mind me saying so. I just want to come in on the student's voice and why she's there in her direction. We have discussed the need to listen more carefully. I can only assure the Senate that we are listening. Much of what we're doing these days is about it, e.g. with the flexibility in the study meal, it is being met almost everywhere. I'd also like to mention that we've been listening and having a bit more flexibility about the Education Fund. We take into account that a student's career is not exactly the same today in Covid as it was before, so we are truly listening. The student's voice is in high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u80	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers again and accept the importance of listening to students, it is important to shape policy, and it is also important in general that they learn about democracy and the importance of making their voices hear so that there is much joy. I think these matters have been done very well - and because I am the highest. Minister of child care here in the hall, I'd like to say that the voice of children is important, that they should learn to participate and be heard. I just want to come in to that as the highest. A minister mentioned the subject of lock, and I am so glad that we are increasingly looking at our reading skills. I think most of us realize, if we look at the vocabulary, that, unfortunately, he's going down considerably, and you'll find it when you read books to children who may be, what should we say, more than ten years old or something like that, that often there are vocabularys that are less common for children today. But it shows how good they are in English because they are just using media in which English is a bit predominant. I have to admit, the owner of a 13 - year - old, that he sometimes has the word in English, but he even needs it in English. It's special, I admit it. But I'm still gonna celebrate because he's really good at English. That's good too. But this is just where point two, which is the development of the Icelandic language and what we need to be constantly on our toes. We are about our media, developing Icelandic into this technical environment all together, and the importance of offering quality materials. When I say, these media have to have quality materials available in Icelandic. If we as government can support it, it's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for investigating this policy. A course like this will always be in general, even open to both ends. However, there are a few things I would have liked to do, which I feel would require more emphasis on this discussion. First, I will give a piece of the song of Einar the son of Benediktsson, which is called my mother. It says, by permission of the president: We go every one of the Bifrost, to the secret place of hell. To our tongue, our tongue smote the guard. You read--this case with pleasure and warmth The weight of institutions hard. - I understood there's a word in Iceland About everything on earth. This may be the basic theme of what I was going to mention, which is English instruction, reading, and understanding. It's not just reading sense, it's language understanding. I'm riding on C.2. I would have liked to have called this part of The Watch's Club Icelandic. The Icelandic language is a gift from all over the world. I don't know if I'm supposed to say that the biggest enemy in Iceland is Icelandic advertising editors and mediamen, but the fact is that I do it because the good people who are supposed to be a guide for us all have bad issues for us every day, and not just us, but our children who think that this is not the way they should sound. On the one hand, I also wanted to pry here in Icelandic for foreigners. That is mentioned in itself, but it is not mentioned as children. Research has shown that a child must first learn his native tongue if he is to be successful in language number two. If he does not, the situation may be that he does not achieve skills in his mother tongue or in language number two. I'm sorry, we already have an example of this, since children of foreign origin are the most numerous in Iceland because we weren't taking care of this at the time when they came here. We need to put an end to this problem. Here is also Part A.4, of early support, and again I say this policy must probably be widely put, etc., but I do not miss it, e.g. not to be specifically mentioned as dyslexia, autism and ADHD. In my opinion and many others, we need a special campaign now, and it would have taken a long time ago to help people who are struggling with dyslexia. Yes, it is. It's about finding out as soon as possible which children need support and where, I respect it. But I say again, I would have liked these three challenges, i.e. dyslexia, autism and ADHD. For far too long, those who deal with these three problems have been put out in school, that they cannot learn, that there's something wrong with them, etc. I didn't meet a nice man long ago, in his 40's, who runs a large construction industry and is very successful. He told me that he had a problem with dyslexia all his life. He did well in his studies, but he had to struggle through his study because he was struggling with dyslexia. But he did not intend to stop until he could study for entertainment, not just for the benefit of it, but for the enjoyment of it, so he took a special course. He told me: It is in the last two years that I can read a book without feeling seasick. This fine man fought, and he had a victory. But there are a lot of people who fight but give up, understandably. They're people, and they're the children we have to grab. So I am disappointed that this point is not inserted. We need to put forth great effort to identify dyslexia and help people right after their lives to overcome it. It may come into what is called education for the rest of your life. It's very noble, but I think it's very important that this point be put in there. People who deal with someone often think that they are intelligent in certain areas that need to grow and feed them to enjoy themselves, to make these children enjoy themselves, and to make them feel better. This is what I might have wanted in there, of course it's something else. I'm not very impenetrable over the reading section. When I talk about language, I own, for example. learning poetry can be the key to getting language. Someone's grinning and saying it's just because it's my age and all that stuff, but it's not like that. As a child, I learned poetry and never benefited, not reading poetry for my benefit until just mid - life. So I lost some of the golden treasures that have been with me since then. It's so easy now. We can introduce Jóhannes úr Katlar to our children by singing with Valgeir, the son of Guðjónsson, as an example. We can learn Steinar by singing along with Magnús Eiríksson's son. It's just a matter of procedure. Then, naturally, there is no requirement that a songwriter is long dead to enjoy it. Let's teach my children Megas's poem, two stars, so I'll name just one example. This is something I think should come in here. In view of what you see and hear in people of various ages, I think somehow that the early years of motherhood were almost devastated. We must respond in the next ten years. It says it's a matter of evolution, but I'd rather talk about preservation, because if we don't take care of ourselves, there's no way the Icelandic will be here in 10 years. We need to be careful. Now I'm not introducing a clean-cut policy, but you still think it's very sour when people, just 30 or 40 years old, can't know the simplest dropbacks, etc. This suggests that something has failed, and we need to respond so that not all of our children will start speaking as do the dancing women who did in the middle of the last century because they did not hesitate to learn the dents. The policy is a good price, and I thank you for it. I can't wait to deal with it on a full-scale educational committee. I repeat, thank you to the highest. Minister for bringing her in here. I see working for the committee is a big job. Of course we accept it, for there is power.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u82	A respectable president. In short, I just want to review the points presented. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. First of all, we're talking about locks in high school. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ It is part of our culture that everyone can read for his benefit and enjoyment. - Then I'll think of a partner. A senator who said: " I'm not going to give up on reading until I enjoy it. It is a key to quality of life and reflects the ability of people to perceive and understand their surroundings, nature and society in a critical and critical way that contributes to an active involvement in their modeling. Reading is the most powerful tool students can take in knowledge and language in speech and literature is essential to participation in a democracies community. Hence, education is particularly focused on speech, reading ability, expression, writing, listening, and action in order to deal with people who are unable to read. The work of the whole community will be sought to ensure that the locks and especially the access of homes, librarys, writers, and the media are being added. In this paragraph, what? A senator, who is being considered on these factors, including the dyslexia that is defined as reading disorders. I'd also like to mention that early support includes autism, which includes ADHD, which includes other factors. I give tremendous importance that we control the challenges presented at any given moment. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this. Yes, yes, I mentioned in my speech that there are chapters on what the minister considered. I made that statement, and I still believe that it is not strong enough. I now feel that there is a need for action in this text, that there is a need for action, and that policy means that there will be action already and it will last us out the time it takes. I came to realize that both in the chapter on early support and the reading section were limited to the points I've been talking about. But I say again: I would have preferred that this is a strong word. I see, for example. No one here and I haven't seen now, if I look at the text again, that this problem is specifically addressed, this challenge I mentioned before, i.e. To teach their own mother tongue to children of immigrants by what they learn in Icelandic language. I think it's absolutely necessary. We're getting more people out of our homes than we've had in a long time, and we're under obligation to do so, once we've received the wonderful people and the children, to make sure that they don't get out of the way in society and that they can have their talents, that's why I would have thought that only a better look at Icelandic education for children of immigrants would be necessary to follow course.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u84	A respectable president. I'd like to mention some aspects of high school that put an eye on what was presented in the language of the day. Senator. First of all, a study will be discussed with the president's permission: ▪ Society is obliged to provide the best for the well - being of young people and to ensure all the opportunity to develop and thrive within the educational system. It is important to make sure that everyone is found in the educational system and that there is equality within it. And I'd also like to mention, about the native language, that in education, we'd like to say, by permission of a president: ▪ We protect and increase our interest in the English language and culture of all generations. It must be ensured that in all areas of society, Icelandic Sign Language will be promoted at all levels and that the future of the Icelandic language in a digital world will be guaranteed. Here is a high priority on the native language. And I'd also like to mention that one of the guides in education, where I wholeheartedly agree. A senator is the very variety of cultures in which we live. It says that Iceland is a population society that uses the resources involved in multicultural school activities, celebrates the wide variety of students, i.e. children, and using them to promote society. It is of utmost importance that we put our arms around this, and it is one of the factors that we first refer to in education.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this input. It's this way for some time now that I don't think that there's a lot of evaporation in any school system now, or it's been in the past few years, and just about the number of children who have moved here who have another mother tongue and have landed in this pit I mentioned earlier. Therefore, I think that there is ample reason to do what I pointed out--now I am not wasting this course, as well as so--and I have shown that there is a need for it in this course to speak even stronger than here. According to them, there is light in the darkness also. Although this may not be the case, I was very happy when I heard that the Icelandic government is going to cancel the legalization of industry. There would have been strange messages to young people who want to learn trade because I know the highest. Ministers and I agree that knowledge of skills, good skills, is the basis of prosperity in the country. One of the most beautiful words in the Icelandic language has become an intellectual sense, and I don't know many more beautiful than that. This requires that we develop and have not coped with the past, so we need to deal with it severely. Therefore, I am glad that the Icelandic government has spared pie, not intended to hang them for someone else by destroying the legalization of that operation. So there are lights here and where in the dark. But course's fine. Strong words need to be spoken only.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u86	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Parliaments for a very objective discussion of academicism over the years 2020,2030. It reviews all the major factors that I have strong faith in making Iceland the top order for education all my life. I have great faith in the five pillars we've crossed here at the Senate Hall, first of all, that the education system is so that it's equal to the opportunity for everyone. Second, our teaching will be in the front order, and we will give much emphasis to the teacher and the community - important role that the teacher plays in all our communities. One thing that distinguishes all educational systems that are outstanding is the fact that the teacher and teacher's work are very good. A third support is the ability to cope with all the factors that are relevant to Iceland's competitiveness can resist any competition for education. Fourth, because we feel very important that our children and young ones are doing well at school, we stress our well - being. Finally, we stress quality, that we constantly think of ways to improve our system. A respectable president. What a pleasure it has been to recommend a proposal for a conference resolution of academicism for the years 2020,2030! I believe that what is the essence of education is exactly the attitude that we are learning not for school but for life and that is the best way to promote an Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u87	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in unemployment insurance law to meet the economic impact of pandemic crown virus. There is further workforce action. The bill allows for an increase in the right of jobseekers for income-related unemployment benefits. As they respond to increased unemployment, the situation of those who have lost their jobs in the wake of a pandemic crown virus is even stronger. In September this Council was adopted to temporarily extend the right individuals considered guaranteed within the unemployment insurance system to income-related unemployment benefits. The period of income-related unemployment improvement was thus extended from three months to a maximum of six months, provided that the relevant jobseeker did not fully use its right to make such improvement during the current recovery period when the change was established in September. It has been taken down in the discussion and has been criticized that some who are guaranteed within the unemployment insurance system and who have lost their job because of hard work in relation to a newer crown market have failed to take advantage of this increased level of rights. These include individuals with little or no right to pay on notice and therefore entered the unemployment insurance system as the epidemic's effects began to be maintained in the labour market this year. Since the general rule within the unemployment insurance system is that income - related unemployment improvements are paid in the first three months of the recovery period, in some cases these individuals have fully used their right to pay - related unemployment improvements in September and have fallen outside the temporary extension of the right to such improvements. The temporary changes proposed in the bill are about to reimburse the time points which extend rights to income-related unemployment benefits, thus allowing more people to make the right use of them. It is suggested that income related unemployment improvements be allowed for up to six months if the jobseeker did not fully use his right to make such improvements during the current recovery period of June 1. instead of looking at the September months. The aim of these changes is to ensure that, for up to six months, those guaranteed within the unemployment insurance system who have lost their jobs as a result of hard work in a pandemic crown virus may have the right to earn money - related unemployment benefits, although they had little or no right to pay on notice and therefore have entered the unemployment insurance system right away when an epidemic began to take care of the labour market in April. A respectable president. As long as the uncertainty of the current labour market exists, we must try hard to ensure the status of the households and resist the negative effects of the situation on those who suffer loss of employment because of the effects of the labour market epidemic. So I stress that the bill will be approved at the Council as soon as possible in view of the urgency of the operation. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u88	Mr. President. V.E.G. One minister speaks of the urgent need to resolve this matter because it is so important. I would like to agree that it is truly important when people have lost their jobs, face a job crisis, there is no work to do, and the economy of their households has fallen from those who have lost their jobs. I had a word with the highest. A minister earlier today, I asked if he had not been more reasonable and juster than anyone out of a job in August had received a six - month - long income - time period. I didn't get the answer, and I want to ask the highest. Ministers and ask him to answer very clearly: Would not it have been fair and just that all who were on basic employment benefits in August, or just all unemployed, get a six - month - long pay - time period? Why does it want to be the highest? Ministers only let 10,000 people, or half those who were out of work in August, enjoy the six-month income-related period and leave the other half out? Why is that? Is it because of the highest. A minister believes that those who were unemployed in February are doing something better, that their home is strong economic, or that they have more opportunities to get a job or otherwise help in a professional crisis? What is the reason why this group is left behind?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question. We had a little debate about this earlier today, too, and I'd like to say right now that it's not only evil that a minister would suggest it. What we're doing, and it's in my review, is reacting to the individuals who lost their job after the crowning epidemic. The bill reaches them. It was clear that when we started with this bill that this was the way it was supposed to be, it would be possible for those who had lost their jobs when the crowning epidemic hit. As I traced in my history, the law was destroyed, which included. Yeah. A senator has pointed out, and I thank you for that, and that's well, and we're closing that island. We are considering that six months after the pandemic, everyone who lost his job will receive income - related unemployment benefits. Then, like the senator, you can always wonder if you can go further, do even more. In this context, I would like to point out that the present government has taken extensive measures to support those who, unfortunately, have lost their jobs in connection with the Korean epidemic. It aims to increase the total annual budget of 80 billion, which is between 50 and 60 billion, as expected in the budgets of the current year. The reason, then, is that the answer is simple, that we are considering the individuals who lost their job in the crowning days. There was the evidence behind this temporary increase in income-related prolongation of the time, and that is still the evidence for the case I recommend here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u90	Mr. President. I'm such a racist bite to the top. Ministers should want to present issues as discrimination to people who have lost their job and who have no jobs because they have a job crisis. The people who were out of work in February get no work because this is a pandemic. It is because of the pandemic that this 10,000 will be left in this position. Not only have they been left behind but they have been most unemployed and are in the worst position, coping with long - term lack of employment, which has not only a economic impact but can have a very bad social impact that can lead to health problems and long - term high cost for the State. This is discrimination, and this is an unwise discrimination, Mr President. Then it gets to the top. Minister to the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has done a huge job for unemployed. The only action to improve and face loss of income in the homeless is to extend the income - related period to six months. This is the only action to face economic influence in the homes of unemployed. There is no way to boast about paying unemployment compensation for which hired men have earned their rights. It is shameful that the government is bringing together the billions of people and saying, "See how well we've done for our unemployed! That's bullshit, of course, Mr. President. The only action is this three - month addition to the income - related period, and it can't be ashamed to give additional jobs to all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u91	A respectable president. When this case was presented, and we decided to extend the income-related period for six months, it was evident that the cut-off point was reversed to those who had lost their jobs in March or later due to Covid-19. Then there was a specific destruction, and I've explained how we're closing it now. So there's nothing new about this. There's nothing new about this, and neither is there a case yet. Senator. Then I want to point them out. A senator who claims that the government has not taken action, when it comes to those people who have lost their jobs, to defend their homes... [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator cannot remain calm here in the hall. The government took part - time action where tens of billions were given to protect employment relationships, as it was also a guarantee that the right persons within the unemployment system would not be affected. This was a much larger operation than was under attack for the economic collapse because of the impairment of the rights during the step. We have also undergone action, such as working with support for which time requirements have been compromised and study is now an opportunity that is expected to take place at least three times as much effort as in the economic crisis. I agree with what. A senator always wants us to see if we can do more, how we can do more, and how we can benefit from people in the terrible situation of losing their job. We are doing it, and I told you today that we are preparing for further action against this group. At the same time, however, we must be able to be reasonable, for the government has done many good things. As soon as I celebrate the debate. We must also be reasonable and guide the truth when it comes to these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u92	Mr. President. I have not lied in my speeches here at the General Assembly on the job crisis of the unemployed Icelanders. What I'm trying to criticize is that there are 10,000 people who were out of work in February who get no money through this one of the highest ways. Governments to improve the economy of unemployed, i.e. Normal unemployment, I'm not talking about part-time improvement, I'm not talking about education, I'm talking about the economy of homes that have been dealing with unemployment for months. And I have news to give the highest. A minister who was standing here giving a talk earlier. Long-term lack of work is very expensive for society. It is not only difficult for families and children who have to live with such things but also long - term health dangers and high costs for society. Therefore, it is wise to make sure that at least All unemployed in 2020 will enjoy the resources played by the government, that she will not leave behind the worst of the people. She's doing it. It's so sad. Is it because it's so expensive? No, of course it's costing money. That's 166,000. in a month that is the difference between basic non-employment and income-related benefits as they can be most common. Three times that is just under 500,000 bucks, 500,000 bucks. on any person who was out of work in February, and now you figure out. That was 10,000 people. This could all be 5 billion if everyone gets the maximum in the income connection. Sadly, though, I do not think that this is the case because a large percentage of those who lost their jobs in February - there were many who lost their jobs in February because of the epidemic when they were starting to influence the arrival of tourists from China, for example, right in February - were, unfortunately, mostly low - income workers. So this doesn't go up to the 456,000, not the whole group. This can never cost more than 5 billion government funds. Even now, out of the state's budget, there are over 10 billion that the government felt would probably strengthen companies around to help them break up. Thus, this would never get half of the amount that has already gone out of the state's budget for that operation. It is therefore not as if this is the major operation of the government's operations package, where tens of billions have gone to support their companies. I don't regret the billions of them, but I think the government can look at the economy of the households like the business. There is so much injustice and injustice on a journey reflected in this bill. Of course, it was set up in early September, when they were left on basic employment benefits in August, and now more than two months later some correction comes. Then they are left without a job in February. I don't have a word, Mr. President, how this government behaves against people who have lost their jobs in a professional crisis, the deepest crisis for 100 years, that she dares to get into action and not pass over all who have lost their jobs, just some. Mr. President. Basic non-employment is now 289,510k. per month or about 86% of minimum wage insurance. January 1 goes up the minimum income insurance policy more than the basic non-employment. They go up January 1 to nearly 300,000 bucks. While minimum income insurance goes to $351,000. There's a further 51,000. a month on the lowest salary and basic non-employment. We in the United States have suggested that basic non-employment may be increased to at least 95% of the minimum income insurance. We did so in 2009 when the Conspiracy and the Left Green were in the government to face the difficult situation of the day. In a job crisis, we view unemployment differently than in good health when there is enough work to be done. This, of course, is normal. There is one way or another, countries around the world are coming in one way to improve the economic situation of those who are now dealing with unemployment. But this is the only operation that's going right into the unemployment insurance at the highest level. Secretary of society and child care was just making a recommendation here. This is true of only about half of those who are unemployed. So that's one thing, you need to raise your basic inadequacies. If the government has a problem with making it permanent, aiming that basic non-employment will be 95% of the minimum wage insurance, then it can be done temporarily. It can be done temporarily. If we said that we did it only for a few months, six months or so, we would remember right away. People will remember that. This increase will go directly into the economy because the people will be able to do nothing but go to the store and buy the necessities. So it is also to stimulate the economy and create employment, so it is an operation that we should go to. Another is a Christmas bonus. Christmas bonus has been paid for the unemployed. That's what they did last year. Then we were not struggling with this deep crisis. True, I haven't taken care of that. It may be that this is one of the highest operations. Minister says we should act. It must be necessary to have unemployed at least as high a Christmas bonus as those living at the biographers' contracts. Of course, a pensioner and a pensioner should also get such a petition. The period will then have to be extended, the unemploymental recovery period. It is now 30 months, but this must be extended by at least a year to have some confidence in this system so that those who are now finishing their recovery period are not at risk of developing community service, which is even worse than unemployment improvements. To extend the 12-month period would be an improvement. Another thing the pros have called for - in which the government seems to listen better when employers and businesses talk than when it is spoken for unemployed individuals - and we've noticed it in a state of shock. A financial and business committee is a part-time improvement process that will be extended. We've suggested that in the United States too. She has to be extended at least to my next year, because even if a vaccine comes over the next few days, it takes time to get the job going here and it's better for most companies to maintain employment contracts with more than a few employees. Therefore, the ratio has to be taken down to 25%, but don't make it 50% the way it is today because, of course, the companies want to hold on to the experienced people and can help get the companies started quickly when the situation allows. Mr. President. I see I'm running out of time. There is also one thing missing in the highest part of the world. A government and I don't understand why she hasn't come along or called a group to find out that in the Southnes, a part of over 30,000 people, four women are out of work. There's a fourth woman out of work in Southnes. However, the measures taken by the government to try to instill the commercial life turn to far more than anything that men do. It's perfectly clear that there's something that needs to be taken care of, and if the government is just confused, there's no ideas, there's no smart idea, I'd like to advise the highest degree. A government to bring together people, both political and commercial, in order to soak up heads and find clever solutions out of the problems we are in. Finally, Mr. President, I want to say this: We are now dealing with emergency problems, and the problem is particularly in the homes of unemployed. The government has to step in handsomely. Of course, rural society needs to be faced in areas where unemployment is the most and that rural society can maintain close - up services, respond to the call for increased social services and child protection in these difficult times, and that it does not have to cut down on projects and so reduce the number of jobs. We need to be careful about our welfare, care for our health care, care for our needs, and care for our current situation, as well as to improve it from what it was, since it was not recommended when the pandemic came upon us. Finally, we need to consider how we're going to get out of this crisis, considering green structure, so we're getting out of the difficulty of going to a better place than we were when the pandemic hit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u93	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to legalise changes in growth and insurance laws, index price laws and home loan laws to consumers, i.e. cut-off price insurance on consumer loans. With me on the bill is why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. In chapter I of the bill, on the change in growth and insurance laws, No. 38/2001, with subsequent changes, says in par: ▪ After 1st mg. 14th par. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: The cost of consumers' loans or mortgages to consumers is unsecured. Il. section is a change in index price law, No. 12/1995, with subsequent changes. 2. par.Unable to The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: During the period of November 1, 2020, through October 31, 2021, the index of consumers should not be changed leading to an increase. In III. section is a change in the law on home loans to consumers, No. 118/2016, with subsequent changes. 3. par.Unable to ◯ At 1st. 23rd par. The law shall add a new number, number two, saying, Insecure mortgage loans that merely pay off the old prices insurance loans or loans along with loan costs, as long as one of them is insured. Section 4. It says: "This Law already comes into force. It has been called repeatedly on to cancel insurance, especially on bank loans and on mortgages. It is stated in the government covenant that it is about to consider insurance, likely to eliminate it in some step. I don't know exactly what the will is, something was being mentioned there. But it is clear that we are now in the middle of a pandemic. We are now in one of the most economic crisis in society. The fact is, there have been over a hundred and twenty dollars in this year. All of this goes directly into the price of the matter according to what it says, and the bites of what should be least taken. All essential products increased, all imported products increased, derivatives increased, i.e. Imported products increase that we need to use for production here within the country. All recipes for inflation are now in the water. No matter who and what diagnostic departments have been involved, when asked whether we can say in good conscience that we are not inflation, they say: "No, it's not possible. However, the story goes on to say that it is a far better place for us today in our state to deal with the crisis we are going through now than when we went through the 2008 economic collapse. With the permission of the President, I'm going to refer to the report with this excellent bill, which should actually be welcome here, at least. A government that wants to do everything for everyone according to their own tradition, and especially for those who are in the palace, and above all, claims that this government is defending the homes and families of the country. This bill is for that purpose only. According to one report, due to the ambiguity of the Icelandic crown and the lack of a bank market, the Icelandic consumers had to finance the purchase of securities by borrowing money, which has caused harm to the nation. There are now some who say: Yes, but it is also an option to take disloyal loans. What's the matter with you guys? You don't have to take credit, do you? But the fact is, and everyone knows what it takes, that the inflatable loans grow fewer, so inevitably they seek it more; they are more likely to pay off the inflatable loan. It is now being reduced, which is naturally at least historically, which is wonderful, especially if consumers are to enjoy it more abundantly, because 1% of the steering growth is now resulting in some 43/4.5% and up to 5% growth in modern banking institutions, i.e. two banks, even raising the interest. It has caused great damage to the nation and to the large part of the nation by financing their house - to - house expenses. Despite their commitments, borrowers can expect that the oscillator's loans will increase considerably and if it becomes an inflation shot, if the inflation begins to increase the loan considerably. Yes, it really worked out in the wake of the 2008 economic collapse. Then, in a short period of time, many people lost their homes, thousands of people, I think it was between 12,000 and 15,000 families who lost their homes. We don't want to go back there, not at all. But now, because of a pandemic crown virus, one of the largest economic collapses in a century, a collapse in currency income, and a full count of unemployed despite low interest and reinvestment. By taking unscrupulous loans, many cannot change their debt by reimbursement because of loss of jobs or for other reasons. Those who owe money are vulnerable to this, absolutely. It is necessary to protect the country's home from the harshest effects of inflation. Valuable mortgages take into account monthly changes in the index of consumer prices, such as Article 14. I'm going to fix the interest and insurance. It is suggested that the index price of consumers be covered, which prevents the impact of inflation fires on the head position of security loans in the next 12 months. This helps to protect the country's home from unexpected inflation during difficult times. And it should, of course, be the will of all of us chosen agents to do so for the voters and the people who brought us into the High Council. Then it should not have a significant impact on financial interests, although in a short period of time, it would be a loan on bail. At the same time, the insurance bar is suggested to be completely decomposed. Prices of the mortgage can be very damaging in a society that is surrounded by a fluctuating currency. It is vital, therefore, that the price - secure housing bar be banned so that the country's home does not suffer from the loss of all its resources in each crisis. Since there is no way to defuse insurance from current loans, it is necessary to make sure that a person can reimburse his financial loans. It is also important that the results of a credit and payment evaluation do not interfere with the ability of a debtor to change his privatized mortgage to an unsecured loan. So to help with the reimbursement, it is suggested that none of the credit rates and payments needed when consumers divide an old responsored mortgage on uncertain loans. This is an important issue that must be immediately implemented before the impact of inflation and the impact of this problem on the homes. In 1st. 14th par. legal requirements for securing loans and savings are laid out in terms of growth and insurance insurance. The bill is suggested after 1st. 14th par. If there's a new paragraph saying that consumer loans and mortgages can't be protected. It is not the purpose of this law to pay for any form of insurance, as it may still be possible to secure savings. There will continue to be a guarantee of the loans that will not be heard under consumer loans or mortgage laws. Two. it is requested that provision be placed in the index value law. The directive states that the index will not change as a result of an increase in the period between November 1, 2020 and October 31, 2021. After the period, the index will be calculated using a standard format. As the index is generally calculated and updated at monthly intervals, the index will not be calculated based on the changes in prices when covering the index. Otherwise, in the hope of obtaining full compensation for loans from those who failed to reimburse an older remuneration loan, the cost of new loans would be greatly increased immediately after the end of the period. I've come to most things before. I'm going to go to the report because there's an excellent explanation for the changes suggested by this bill. About Section 3. says that if you take out insurance, you will have to pay off credit to your country's homes. Because of circumstances in the country and the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus, many people have lost their jobs. As a result, it will be difficult for many to pass credit and payment on loans. In order to support the reimbursement of reimbursed loans, it is suggested that none of the credit rates and payments be carried out by a mortgage that aims to reimburse the prices of a committed estate loan. It is common to hold more than one loan, and it also authorizes reimbursement without credit or payment when reimbursement is reduced to more than one loan, provided that one of them is insured. The recommendation is comparable to the 1st issue of Figure 1. 23rd par. legal on house loans to consumers, allowing this to be an obligation to perform credit and payment, with the exception of 1 strategies requiring that regular reimbursement is not increased by reimbursement. Because of the greater financial burden in general, the exception of the 1st list would not be useful in reimbursement of the price-secure loan by borrowing unsecured loans in most cases. Therefore, the amount of regular portions of the provision is not specifically covered. A respectable president. All I'm saying is, if ever there's ever been a reason to plan to eliminate the insurance policy completely from consumers and real estate loans, then now it is. This operation has been called for for exactly for years, almost since this dissertation was borrowed. Why should banks and credit institutions be strapped here with belts and bracelets as soon as something comes about, it is common people and apartment owners who are supposed to lose everything, lose their possessions, and stand in the street fighting. Why would we have such a government? I can't understand it at all. The people of the land are calling for the exact change. It's a fake, it's totally false to try to say, "Yes, you can only borrow disloyal, if you want. " The cost of the loans is much higher, and even when it is spoken of as regular growth, it is also false. Constant interest would not be permanent, the banks will be able to, after some time, revise the growth rate, and then certainly not revise them to decrease. They will likely never revise them unless they are elevated. At least it's what we've known through the ages in our fine country, that if it does, if anything should be meant to be reduced and inducible, it'll hardly be reduced from a few here with weares. But if there is to exist in swallowing and intensification and intensification, it will run through like a hot crumb. But we'll see. I'm going to refer the case to what it's about. The Economic and Business Committee. I really hope that this opportunity will be new right now to eliminate the unfavourable insurance on consumer and estate loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk, and I would like to give her the opportunity to explain to me why we should forbid it. I have to admit, I just don't understand. I believe that most loan agencies today offer valuable loans and security loans. Since more of the public's real estate loans lie at the pension fund, which we have, too, and I would like to be rewarded with my pension, I don't see that the reason why my pension money should be banned from paying insurance. Hv. A senator points out that this is what is called for, that the discussion has been a long time, and that everyone is somehow against it. I think everyone is against inflation and everyone sees a demon in in inflation, especially in in in inflation. That's the real problem in my mind, not the insurance policy. The Pension Fund and most loan agencies if not all offer both possibilities. I think it's important, and we should be able to choose. Fortunately, this market has become more productive and changing, so much of the people are refinanced, more things I read on the Internet, I don't know what the situation is right now. People are changing creditors, leaving the bank to the pension fund, or vice versa, which is good. People are looking at where the slowest interest is, how good it is. That's where people go. I think that's a big step. People used to be stuck at a camp loan fund. Happily, this move is available in the market, and it turns out that a large part of it is choosing a secure loan. That's why I'm asking. A senator: Why ban something?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir for the answer. Why ban something? It is an example of what I just mentioned in my talk earlier, when they say, "Yes, you have a choice. " Why, then, ban these loans? You decide whether or not you're going to borrow in responsibly, but you just remember that you poor people will never be able to afford to pay the cheating loan, and you're directly on the insurance policy because you're paying a lot less money from your loan, just until the inflation turns up, and all of a sudden it's growing up for your head. I understand why. paritaprevir Butdinary Haraldsdóttir doesn't understand why it should ban insurance, for it is represented by her excellent independent party, which this insurance policy has grown, represented by the party that teaches itself at a capitalist, which actually protects its capitalists above all else. I, however, represent the individuals, the poor people of the land, the upright of their feet. I'm not saying that breaking insurance won't ruin your savings. A senator in her pension fund, finishes up with nothing in our pension system anyway, right? There's been a call in the community to get us out of this insurance bag. That's what we're doing here and now with this bill. I'm just hoping for what. A senator sees the light and wants to prevent the possible inflation fire from moving the next 10,000 to 12,000 families onto the street, as in the last financial collapse. The insurance in force today is no different than it was then, nothing different, and people are taking it out rather than credit. I can never restate on the fact that the irresponsible loan carries much higher interest and carries a heavier load of payment, and the individual is referred to the insurance policy. [[The president calls.]] We need to get rid of her.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator, but I must admit, I am still just as big a question mark if that is exactly what merits the more favorable loans. Hv. A senator made it clear that the poor people were in that way because they could pay back the loans rather than the disloyal loans. Still, we are going to ban the loans that these people can actually take and can live up to. A respectable president. I don't see it coming. I'd like to reiterate what I said before, I think the inflation is the case. None of us want to see some inflation, and it is only natural for us to discuss how to protect our country's home from such things if possible. Then, at the same time, let us remember that we have the most beneficial interest we've ever seen, and I think that's exactly why we've offered freedom of choice of the loan. The borrower isn't controlled. You don't have to go to any one of the state's savings banks of the Subcommittee, which was here with a permanent loan and no one could get out of it. Now, as property owners with mortgages, we can move around and choose the best terms. Many have chosen to follow a course that is unconvinced, not all of them. I am, for example. With my credit money, it's clear that most people are choosing it, just because of the cities. Having the potential for these loans has been the way for young people to acquire real estate. It's not perfect, and you realize that seeing your loans go up every time you pay is pretty boring. At the same time, I watch this is also the pension fund of my grandparents. If inflation is here, do they have the right to take up the money they earn? Has not the group of people spoken of the need to look at them in advance to those who have mentioned them? [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I look forward to dealing with this situation on the committee. I might have some kind of light coming on, but I might have an eight. A senator also realizes that the matter has been reviewed many times, and the conclusion has so far been that it is best to have freedom of choice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Brutish of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for coming in answer again with all the lights on, as she says, but only no one at home. [[Foreground on:]] That's not good. The fact is, what we're talking about, and I repeat, is that it's not a choice when a person is almost forced to borrow which he can pay even if it's inflatable and to take the risk of entering exactly the position we were in. I had 4 billion. K. loans went up to 11.3 million almost overnight. This is no science, and this is what everyone knows, and everyone knows, especially those who lost their homes and bleeding because of them and who haven't recovered yet. It's really amazing that there's a problem with going to cancel the insurance on a consumer and a real estate loan.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u98	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u99	Just to cancel, eliminate all this insurance policy, just out with the insurance policy. They have actually been calling for it for a long time, and they have not changed in my mind at all. The crowd is fighting for the poorest people. We want it to have a choice, that it is not forced into action that may result in the loss of one's home when we are going through a recession every ten years, whether it is a Korean epidemic or something else. So I'm just saying away with this insurance policy and sooner. It is not as if we were not saving our country's savings. There's no guarantee of anything like that. This is the real estate market only. We don't see any reason why we might be more concerned about money owners, the money resources in the country, the banks, and the creditors because of apartment loans, just not at all. So I look forward to it too. A senator handles the matter in a moment. A financial and business committee, and I hope all lights will be on at her place, and she'll be at home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u100	A respectable president. We'll discuss here the bill on changing the growth and insurance laws, index prices and mortgage laws to consumers, breaking the insurance. And I start out like, "Why should we ban these loans?" It's very simple. There's a certain group out there that still has the old loans from an apartment loan fund. What kind of interest do they have? That's 4.5% interest plus insurance. Can these individuals simply change loans? No. Why not? Yes, because if a person has been at work and has had an accident, a car accident, a work accident, or a illness, such as. In a micro- or rehabilitation pension, he's in a very different position. He's in a position where he can't get his payment. He may already have bought an apartment, and he may have borrowed a loan that is considerably higher, and he may already have more money based on the pension he is about to make, in view of his previous salary. So he does not have the opportunity to change his loan. This is true of many today who have become unemployed. We know there's been a hell of a crowd. To say here in the symposium that everyone can change their loans today is wrong. Not everyone can. Another factor in this context is that there is a big difference here, and it may be in many ways true, that insured loans have less interest. But it's only new since growing. So you can borrow money on the interest today. But as soon as the inflation takes off, there is hope. The borrowers have shown that their interest rates and payment loads will be relatively comfortable in this regard so that in spite of the loss of their inflation, the price will not go up exceedingly. The people who have the old 4.5% loan from an apartment loan fund with insurance, they say they're paying 125,000 bucks. a month and a month can handle it, but if they're going to turn this loan into an unscrupulous loan, they're in some kind of trouble. That is why it is quite simply that we must and should make sure that we have a healthy loan market in Iceland, which is in the North countries. We'd just have an apartment loan that'd cost 152% interest. In itself, there should be a balance fund that could see to it, and it would also be a means of not allowing the inflation to go astray. We know the consequences of the collapse of the bank. The numbers are wrong, but they were probably around 10,000 homes that just left. It is still not clear who received them and at what cost, what happened to them, and where these homes were sold. They've heard all kinds of numbers. That many homes have gone and were sold without any payment because the buyers were counted as strong citizens. It was also said that in order to secure a pension fund, the greatest wonder was that it would require insurance. What for? The largest share is reduced by those who receive a pension fund, the amount of payment is being reduced to 65 to 4700%. In itself, the smallest amount of pension will be available to those most in need, and most will be given to those who need it. Those with the highest salary have nothing to worry about, but those with the lowest salary or just a pension or a pension, retirement, no business. The insurance doesn't make their status any better through the pension system. It's strange that we should have legalized that there are about 3% of the profits of pensions over insurance. This, of course, is absurd in today's growth environment. We must also realize that, as we do today, inflation has begun. Inflation is now about 4% and is down 20%. Food food has been rising from 10% to 17%. The fact is, for most pensioners, whether poor or older, they have long been eaten up the increase they received at the beginning of the year. And it is not on the agenda of this government to make it up in any way or in any way the enormous failure they have had, whether because of rising prices or on others that have caused renting and the cost of apartments to rise. It's up to a raise, except the pension and the pay for those on the lowest salary. It is very important that we make sure that such a bill gets through because here we are changing the terms on growth and insurance, as stated in chapter I of the bill: The prices of consumer loans are unsuspectable, or real estate loans to consumers. It is very clear and simple and should not be a big problem to pass it through. Then there is a change in index value law. We know the index of consumer prices is a problem. We have a system that we've built in the past few decades, or it seems more like the Four Party built it up, and it seems to be their Holy Grail to keep it all intact, no matter what's going on, whether it's a bank crash, a success, Covid. It should always be kept unchanged. As we have seen, the public, the worst, is the person to tighten the belts, the broad banks to take the plaque, while the rest of those with the money have not only a belt and a shoulder but also a contract. It's njinged down, they can't lose a crown. Their risks should not be any kind of creation, no risk to be taken. There is no chance that the banks will not get their money, that they will not make just billions of dollars. There is no chance that the largest capital owners in this country will yield anything. No, the only ones who are to give up and should not enjoy anything are those who always get hit and have broad banks. It's the ones on the lowest salary and the ones in the pensions, the older citizens, the poorer. This bill of ours at The Gang of the People is a case that should be welcomed and should be let through, especially if we take II. the period from November 1, 2020 to October 31, 2021, the index price of consumption should be withdrawn. What Is the Risk to the State? It's negligible. At the same time, the profit for those who need it, the worst, the huge. It should be a priority for this government to defend this group, but for some reason it seems to be the priority of protecting capital owners, defending the interest of banks on the toe and finger, defending those who have it best but knocking on the others. It's kind of amazing that we have to contribute a bill like this. In itself, it should be an earmark to every government at any given time - this government should have learned from the bank crash and be ready to do so, with that lesson, to see to it today, in the middle of the code, to do something. " We've been beating up the most,'they may be 15,000 people who lost their homes in the bank collapse and are starting again, but they may be going back to pick up all the burdens. It's kind of completely incomprehensible. It seems that learning from experience is some sort of inadequacy to the government and simply acknowledging mistakes. It seems that they are completely deprived of getting into it, that it is as if they think that they have just nailed down where the wide banks have, or have already decided, and no matter what happens, the victims have been found. They are the ones who should, and those who are at fault. It shows how determined they are in this that these are the only groups, the worst in the pension system, the older citizens, and the desperate, who haven't really got anything but tiny hunger lice in this covid epidemic. It's as if they didn't lose 20% of their lives. It's inflation. The situation is now that people cannot even go from house to house, they need to be sent home with the related costs and challenges. But there seems to be one minute of helping those around you to get by. No, they should only tighten the belt. They're wide banks. The ones who are to be protected and put together by shoulder and belt are the banks and the money owners. They are the kingdom of God of this government. The others can only eat what's out of the water.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u101	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct traffic laws, No. 77/209. The bill is composed at the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs and is its objective, first of all, to prevent further administrative pressures and costs from laying on citizens, to explain legal regulations and to correct the problems of the laws presented. It is also the objective of the bill to ensure appropriate recovery prior to the implementation of Regulation 2019/631/EU to set the management standards for carbon dioxide emissions for new vehicles and new light job equipment. With Roads, No. 77/209, the number of rules valid according to older law was changed. 50/1987. Some of the changes are viewed as too burdensome to the citizens of the country as well as to what is needed to correct certain rules, simplicity, or interpretations. So the bill suggests changes in traffic laws, and I will now review basics. It is suggested that the law on the ban on repair or stopping and repair of vehicles in certain areas take on all registered vehicles, not just motorized. In this way, the ban is also used as an example for registered car chariots. The law's law on walking streets is too blocked, but it presents the complete range of motor vehicles driving about them as well as the authority of a community to provide special replacements is very narrow. Thus, the bill contains a provision that provides specific authority to allow people to drive and drivers through walkways to and from their property. The same value for the population and host in nearby streets if there is only access to their automobiles from a walkway. In addition, it will be permitted to include other restrictions on motor vehicle driving on foot but are listed in the law today. Such restrictions should be provided as a special measure on how to use it, indicating traffic signals in accordance with 4 mg. Ninety-four. The law. As a result, a decision-making authority on street roads will be extended to a larger extent to the rural community according to their role and responsibility as providers. Instead of looking for approval of a barrier in any case, when the Grouping Room provides access to the rules for size and weight of vehicles when such transportation is absolutely necessary, it is suggested that the travel process be agreed on at all times. However, it will especially be stated in the law that such excluded conditions can be established, e.g. that if a person wishing to accept an exception, he should agree with the other road or road transport where the road is not a barrier. This morning, special traffic laws are available to set up regulations for the use of local policies and payment on land in the administration of the state. The secretary should collect this fee or assign it to others to care for the collection by contract. In order to simplify this process, it is suggested that a minister can also authorize citizens to provide a collection of fees for the use of the government's domain without having to make a special contract for the collection. Thus, it will be relatively simple to hide state officials who wish to be responsible and the oversight of the pressures of such a price. In recent years, bicycling has increased dramatically in this country and is now much more about the difference in road space than it used to be. Hence, it seems normal to be authorized to use guiltys for violations against certain legal requirements for cyclists. It has been noted that if a wheel or a horse is so heavily affected by alcohol or other substances that it is not able to control the wheel or the horse, it is not clear enough to what it requires of a penalty, and it is suggested that the regulations of these materials be made clearer. The maximum amount of fines allowed to be determined by a judicial decree against the law is currently set in 97 st. The law. It is suggested that, rather than being found in the law, the maximum amount of money in the Regulation itself will be covered. As a result, additional efficiency and better ensure that the funds for violations against the law are in accordance with the severity of the offense, while the prices are generally changed in this country. Thus, the maximum amount of fines allowed to be determined in the regulations for violations of traffic laws had been replaced for 16 years until current traffic laws gained value, while prices and wages had gone up somewhat during the period. It should be noted, however, that today there are no single traffic laws that deal with fines except the maximum amount of money allowed to be determined by law. The bill then suggests that the EFTA (EU) monitoring facility will be authorized to provide extra charge on manufacturers who do not meet the maximum vehicle emissions criteria. This is suggested to implement the Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 2019/631 to set the management standards for carbon dioxide emissions for new automobiles and new low working equipment. No drivers are active in Iceland today and therefore the implementation of the Regulation is primarily responsible for the indirect effects here on the country. However, the implementation of the Regulation may have the potential to allow Iceland to become a more acceptable market area for environmental vehicles from the European competent manufacturers. It is reason that manufacturers will be able to record eco-friendly vehicles that will be marketed in this country to reduce the average emissions of carbon dioxide from produce vehicles. A respectable president. I have now considered key elements of the bill and, in other respects, referred to the bill itself and its articles. It is my opinion that the approved bill will contribute to a simpler, clearer legal environment and that the United States will fulfill its international commitments. So I suggest after 1st. if the case is referred to. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u102	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis proposal for the lack of tax pay under $350,000. How wonderful it is to recommend this, and I just wanted everyone to recommend it to me, all 63 of us. One thing is certain, there is no one riding a fat horse from 350,000 bucks. per month. With me at this council-sounding proposal, I'm my excellent platoon member and council leader of the Gangs, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. It says that the General concluded that a financial and economic minister would hide the law by the end of 2020 which stated that there will be a decline in personal discount and a tax limit at 350,000. and that a personal discount falls at more than 945,000 points. a month, which is said to the first stage of the IRS. Second, a personal discount falls along a curved process so that a ven point, based on a personal discount in the 2019th year of income, is marked by 575,000 bucks. monthly income, i.e. The lowest tax step. Third, changes in response to income taxation are made in order to equalize the loss of income due to an increase in taxation between state and rural society. As we know, the largest part of the curses taken from the lowest paid people is the answer. We must therefore make sure that our rural society is not derived from its income. Fourth, full of disability pensions, rehabilitation rates, and pensions guarantee 350,000 pensions. to minimal progress per month, tax and inaccessible. The article concluded that in the 150th legislation Council, a group of the people submitted two clauses that made it possible for poor people to make an adequate living. On one hand it was suggested that the tax limit for revenue would increase to 350,000. and that there would be a falling personality discount. It was the 9th thing. However, it was suggested that the pensions of social security be increased so that they could secure 300,000 dollars to pensioners. for tax and tax expenditures. In view of the fact that this is two suggestions that have the goal of working against poverty, it is now appropriate to combine the two issues. It is suggested that the minimum improvement in social security will result in the same amount of money as the total taxation limit in general; however, it can be assumed that the need for a pensioner is exactly as high as the need for forwarding of others. An increase in tax values and personality discounts: In recent years the economy has prospered. At the same time, the government's financial status has improved, and prices have remained stable. Remuneration has also been positive. Despite the great success of recent years, there has been a lack of effort. Now, however, the situation is different. Many people have lost employment or have suffered other financial problems because of a pandemic crown virus. At first, the economic impact of the epidemic was hoped to be short - lived and that we would soon straighten out the cow again. Now the appearance is darker, and it is clear that we are entering a severe crisis. Actually, it should just be said that it is absolutely clear that we are in the eye of the storm, in a very deep crisis. In such times, protection is needed for those who feel the most of the effects of the crisis. They're the ones who don't have much time between their hands. No doubt many will call these suggestions premature, since money is now needed. The fact is, though, that the people of the land cannot go through yet another crisis unless they receive the compensation that was due to come to them in their good hearts. A report on the distribution of tax pay for the trade union and published in February 2019 shows that between 1993 and 2015, the tax burden of the highest income groups decreased, while the lowest income groups increased. At the same time, real - estate prices have increased substantially, while the index of the market housing has increased in the past decade from 218.4 points to 49.7 points compared to the annual interest rate measured by Hacabies. The trend is worst for low - income professionals who have to spend most of their income in housing. The consequences include: in the growing proportion of tenants, and young people are moving from home much later. At the same time, the salary of the earners has increased substantially. More and more reports are coming from the superburst of various companies, and the heads of state have received considerable pay raise. The median pay is now about 473,000 k. a month, but the average income is considerably higher, about 52,000 dollars. according to the interest sheet's numbers. It is clear, then, that in contrast with what has so often been held here in this fine hall, the idea that everyone is being thought alike. It's just not right. There has been a lot of debate over the past few years about how to change the tax system so that it does not weigh the least income. These include proposals for increased stepchanges, property taxes, tax ratio reductions, and higher tax cutoffs. In addition to the above, there has also been an increase in tax-free intervals and in terms of falling personality discounts. Falling personality discounts mean that once the tax limit is reached, the percentage decrease will decrease according to the increase in income until it finally collapses completely. What we're simply preaching here is what we've been saying all along: Those who are the biggest earners in the community have income that's already at 900,000 dollars. a month, nearly a million a month, can simply take care of over 54,000. which they get in person discounts, and make them go down to the most money - rich, poor society in the community, in an effort to bring up their contribution only. It's an equal, respectable president. That's at least in an effort to equalize the ideals in society and try to meet the poorest people in this country. I'm not going through all this report, but it's clear that this will be the best thing that makes money under 575,000 bucks. When we're talking about the lack of tax on the income, we're talking about $350,000. This is to be paid by taking the personal discount from the wealthy and moving to the poor. In September 2018, a report on the equation was published in the tax system that was prepared for the Party of the Gangs. We have actually been working on these matters ever since we entered a council. We've been talking forever for minimal progress, and under the highest government of the left greens who call themselves present and say they want to help the poorest people, but they're like always there. It is clear that there will be an increase in tax shortages in the provisional element for pensioners and jobseekers. Highly 25,000 people are out of work today. Thousands are losing their income on which they were once able to earn quite a bit of money, to go to striped unemployment rates, 289,000 bucks. per month. The taxation limit is now substantially lower than the baseline improvement in social security and basic non-employment. Thus, the change will give the most needed support, as previously said. In the end, I'm going to say that the rate of increase in social security insurance that the lowest monthly pay for a pensioner who has no other income is only 256,500. This income is highly regarded as taking from the tax, making it payable for $222. After this hatching has been cut down to 256,500 bucks. In fact, it is more painful than tears that by 2020, we are still fighting to break the poorest trap out of the poorest people in the land. It is clean and clear - cut. In recent years the cost of living has increased greatly, especially with housing costs, but at the same time, the payment of the social security system has not been in harmony with general pay development in the country. At each New Year's Eve, when these legal corrections of the index range range from 3.2, 3.3, 3.5%, while receiving a dresser? No, that's not on the orders of this government, there's no better than that. Still, it is claimed that social security workers have just never been better and never so were they. In the past decade, the cut-off rate of disability has improved by 29% compared to the rate of remuneration. In view of the general pay development in this country, the rate of deterioration in social security is no less than 29%, less than one third, thank you. By 2018, nearly 6,000 older citizens had less than 293,000 cases. a month's income before they were shredded. Large groups of people live in great poverty. At that time, the percentage of personal discounts has been reduced in terms of prices and remuneration. In the past, tax limits were higher than non-profit insurance bills. We now have a tax limit at 156,000. After each month's income is 156,000, a respectable president, it is time to pay for the community. Then it is time to pay taxes, even if $200,000 a month goes to rent, for a person with this income hardly has a chance to get paid and buy an apartment, not at all. Thus, taxation limits are considerably lower than basic pensions. That's pretty clear. The result is a large increase in the tax rate of the lowest paid. The global insurance system is to ensure those who need basic human rights, i.e. Food, clothing, and shelter. The government should not judge a person in a lifetime of poverty after a person is so unfortunate to become, for example, the individual. invalid. Nor should the power of the government judge us in endless poverty and anxiety for the last night, just because we cross the line of older citizens. It is necessary to increase the minimum social security policy so that it will put its arms around and protect in the worst possible way, most of which need help. It must be done in two ways, i.e. by increasing the tax-free interval and then by increasing the minimum social security thresholds in order to get what is missing. Now I'm going to refer directly to the Constitution of Iceland, law of No. 33/144 but on a 1 mg basis. 76. g. to all who need their right to help should be due to sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, scarcity, and similar circumstances. This protection that the Constitution offers to the smallest of our brothers and sisters is not respected. She's not respected. It is long since time that money will be set aside for those most in need. It is therefore suggested that the lawgiver ensures that the pensioners of social security have provision as a student at least $350,000. per month, tax and inadequacy. The less it can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u103	A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing from our people about the lack of tax pay under $350,000. and 350,000 dollars. minimum to yield a pensioner. If we went back in time to 1988, the situation was that pension was no tax. They were not only taxless, personal discounts were good for them but also left to 30% to use in pensions, or other incomes. It shows us black in the white how the tax system has treated the unfortunate. It shows us in black that those who have said they shouldn't pay taxes, so let's figure it out. If there are certain numbers that are not only below poverty limits but also cut to very low limits, and they also make taxes, then things have gone into a ridiculous course, and there is really no more than financial violence to those who should be least. But then it is put in more uniforms, a nickel in return to a dollar that has actually been moved down to 65 a year, across the centenarian, a whole range of declines in the system, not just one but a chain - reaction impairment, and they are so chain - in - line that they are not even limited to the state system but are running into the social reform system of the rural communities. These amazing tricks have been used by the four groups. If they were in the same place today as they were in 1988, these and others would be in terms of this. If today's situation was that it was tax-free, as well as that people had 30% to any other income, whether it was pension money or not, we can imagine what status the people out there would be today if this system had been. By what we are offering now, this 350,000 K, these numbers are about to be introduced today. We have a really weird system. We say that micromasks should have 256,000, some with the lowest compensations, some are even lower because of poor housing. Then we're right about 300,000 k. for out of work. Then we are now getting the lowest wage in the labour market at 350,000 dollars. We have 413,000 in artist pay. Then we have 400,000,600,000 for those who are on part-time improved by Covid. It's like it's a systematic practice to treat people in a grossly different way. Of course, it will always cost billions of dollars if this were done, as it were, $350,000. We know that the income would be tax and failure, which is not overpowering. Everyone knows there's no overpower, far from it. This would simply make it possible for most people to have a normal life - that is all they can do. They say this is going to cost some huge billions. But the weirdest part of it is that it's said to cost so much that it's completely impossible, that it's so expensive. Well, let's just go back a little. It's not that long since pay was so high in here. For example, consider the case of a prime minister who received an 869,805 charge. increase to 2,000,021 k. That was the prize on May 1, 2019. This is the cumulative increase per month starting in 2012◯2018. Ministers increased by 7,85,129 and had reached 1,826,000. May 1st, 2019. The senators increased by 547,635 and reached 1,100,194k. Social security bills are said to have gone up tremendously, but that was just about 10% of the other, about 63,648, and went to 247,000 dollars. Well, that's a disaster for all of us. Today's minimum insurance policy increased by 96,000. and unemployment benefits by 97,000. When ministers and members of Congress got their raise, no one said, "Hey, this costs billions. Or when the Ministry officials had their raise, there was no one who screamed: It's gonna cost billions. Well, it would appear that there's a way of putting money in it. It's kind of weird how everything has been pulled out of a relationship, like if we take the budget now, it just shows how wrong the system is. We're raising the lowest wage in the biographies at 20,000 bucks. but with some amazing trick, it can be said that microbubbles are next to a social security increase of 3.6%. At the same time, the budget bill estimated that pay increases of 5.1%. What's going on? A secretary of finance when he is accepted according to how this distinction in general really stands? Yes, he's explaining it with a guerilla, that's 1.7% of it. Therefore, it is not necessary for the nitwit to get the skunk. That's why. That's why the pension is now 30% short, but the highest. Secretary of finance would say, "You're not supposed to get the skunk. " You're not supposed to get what's not crawling at all, the ups I was talking about earlier are not just a little skunk. Desperates and pensioners increase by 60,000 when the others are to rise from 550,000 to nearly 900,000. Is this the skunk we just got, but everyone else doesn't get it? It doesn't make any sense. It's kind of amazing. If we look at these numbers, we are not talking about any huge sums, $350,000. is not large, and we are also talking about the removal of the personal discount at 945,873 k. But what is the government doing? She's playing with her character discount, playing with a percentage increase in taxes. She's dropping compared to a percentage increase with her left hand, but she's coming and lowering the character discount with the other one, and she says, "You're getting so much." The government was snogging because there would be some really good tax changes for those of the lowest pensions at the end of the next year, a total of 2,950 dollars. The most remarkable thing is that the rest of us who are on a higher salary get much more, so one more trip is being used by deception. In order to set things straight, we need to get rid of the four that have already been in power because, while he is in power, this will not change anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u104	A respectable president. I'll come back up again. Now I recommend a council decree of ownership and the inheritance of pension. That's the third thing I recommend here tonight. Every Congress case in the United Nations, every Congress proposal, every bill, is about the rights of the people in the country, and it's about trying to raise the basic growth of the population in the country. It's about eliminating the land's poverty. The sooner voters realize that we're the hope, the party of the people, the sooner they'll be able to eliminate this same poverty. I recommend that the Allied Council agree to hide finance and economic minister to submit a law bill by the end of 2021 which has the objective of ensuring the ownership and provision of the people's pension and granting the inheritance of the pension rights. The bill will make sure that even. that people can choose between paying required pension savings in funds that provide relative rights work or paying on a special account where they can choose how pensions are harvested. Today we don't know what's going to happen to this money. All we know is that there's a law-oriented 3.5% interest rate in the pension fund, now that everybody's talking about control interest in 1%. Although it's not exactly in the way of what I'm talking about right now with this council-sense proposal, it's a natural thing to do, it must be a 3.5% interest in pensions while we're talking about driving down and stuff like that. There's got to be a review of this. Maybe it'll be the next bill the people's party brings to you. Second, we recommend that if we die of a pensioner, his pension rights will be fully inherited from his spouse and children. Genetics can choose whether pensions will be paid out or if rights are transferred to heir. In a paper with the Senate resolution proposal, it says that when the pension system was set up after a collective contract in 1969, it was the general understanding of the pay people that due payment in a pension fund would guarantee the remuneration rights of pensions. Since then, the holding rights of the people of pensions have been repeatedly limited and conditional, either by law and by regulations or by approved pension funds. People in general have little choice about how their pensions are productive. That's what the management of the pension fund is the most important thing. Pension funds have made mistakes in investments, and at times, as everyone knows natural, they have made a huge mistake for a cashmate. In such cases, there is a chance that funds will require change or be limited. A seamate who disagrees with the management of his pension fund has almost no alternative but to vote for which union representative will be assigned to the head of a pension fund or to change the pension fund. Actually, there's not much better. At that time, representatives of the professional team are also in charge of pension funds, but to them a financial society in general has no resources. While pension rights should be protected by the legal rights of the Constitution, it is not possible to define pension rights as property because of the poor custody of donor mates in pensional rights. Thus, it is essential that laws be adjusted so that they can provide acceptable rights for people. If laws do not give people the right to influence the rights to be preserved, then legal obligation to pay taxes is really a tax returns with vague agreements about reimbursement at some future time. A group of people suggest that they be allowed to choose between paying for a relative rights fee or paying in a special account containing its contents. A person should be able to choose whether his pension is used in risky or in moderate investments. Many people are shocked by the decisions the pension fund makes about its savings but have little or no resources in return. A partner is supposed to have a choice of whether his pension will be used to finance, for example. the structure of a silica plant or the purchase of securities of securities. There's a sea between us. It is suggested that the General Assembly hides a bill to provide a bill that guarantees people the choice between whether their pension savings will give their relative rights or will be stored in a special account and that a cash company can then choose between savings procedures. Thus, a treasurer, for example, can choose whether his pension savings will be done by e.g. mortgages to houses, bonds saved, or used in risky investments. We keep talking about the individual's freedoms. It has just been said that women should have control of their bodies. It doesn't matter what it's all about. I'm now saying that I feel closer now that we get to control the legal action we're taking, and in this case, 15.5% of our wages are in a pension fund, which we really get little or no comment on. That's weird. You don't understand this system. It's amazing that if you die from these pension funds, which you may already have paid for almost all of your working years, and many have become millions, the biggest part of which is just to fall into the pit. Among the limitations and conditions that apply to people's pensions is the rule that pension rights are lost on dead funds. Thus, there is a fixed pension rights in mandatory pensions in general not to the surviving relatives of a fundmate. National rights protection 72. g. The Constitution - here I quote the second time in the Republic of Iceland's Constitution, our fundamental law No. 33/194 - Consecure including right to assign possessions to survivors at death. This court is disabled when the rights of a credit card fall down at death. Pension funds are permitted to be spoken of in their approved terms on the left - to - left rights of survivors, but that right rarely exceeds the minimum legal value. There is a legal warrant for the exchange of pensions between marriage mates, but far too few people use that authority. Rather than losing a pension right, a surviving mate is only secure for two years. Can you imagine? Children are guaranteed only children's pensions until they're 18. The pension fund pays as an example of a pension of 60% of the rights of a bank partner and only three years from the death of a cashmate. A respectable president. We should listen to the voices of those who have experienced this aspect of the system, those who have lost loved ones, who have suffered a loss of income, those who have had to move from a home to my home, and who are seeking assistance to make ends meet. All this hard work, despite the fact that the deceased had financial rights that would otherwise have depended on the survival of survivors. Why not let a dead treasurer's family benefit from his pension? Isn't that fairer than sharing his savings on the whole pension fund's financial bank? People's party says no. This is a basic human right. We also feel that it is a fundamental human right to receive our wages legally, in this case, 15.5% and put in a pension fund, unbecoming to the protection of 72 C.E. Constitutions. It is, in fact, remarkable that this form has been in the hands of people for as long as it is true. It's amazing that it can be done, just with one pen mark, to raise millions of people from the pension fund who have been taken legalized through careers, and there's no real right to even the right of our survivors, our legal rights, to enjoy the fruits of our labor through life. It's so old-fashioned, and it's so amazing you don't really get it. In fact, this body of Congress proposal is a wish that a minister of finance would provide a legal bill that says we have what we have paid for our pension, and we own it ourselves, not anyone else. A respectable president. I look forward to hearing what will happen to this synopsis proposal. I'm worried that she's probably going to trash like more and less everything else that comes from a position of government. It doesn't matter if it's good or bad. That is a very little consideration. It will be worth the effort to see if this situation is possible after the time has been spent in good condition. A financial and business committee, where we're expected to refer to the proposal, if I understand correctly, to return to the Hall of Congress for the second session of a council hearing proposal followed by a vote. You're not supposed to bet, and you're not gonna bet at all. I'm going to make an exception, saying that I'm almost ready to bet on this concierge proposal like most others, that under the government's orders it will be thrown into the trash and will not be worth it. All councilmen will vote for it. But I hope I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u105	A respectable president. We're here dealing with a third case in a row from the group of Falcons, a proposal to be held by Congress on the rights of property and the inheritance of pension. If we took these three cases together and they'd all be agreed on by one, two and three, think what Paradise we were in. Not us, but the public out there. The star of inflation would have been dead, we would have brought it down to $350,000. Don't worry. Think about it. [[Up front.]] And most excellent of all, that the people have their own treasure, which they pay in their own reward. In effect, it is quite remarkable that we have to make this suggestion over our heads. As the pension fund is built, it's an old-fashioned system. It's kind of strange, if we watch the entire pension system, that there are 5,500 billion today. Forecasting this number, this is close to being the six - year budget of the State. This system contains over 2,000 billion tax returns. But if we go back to the rear, to the crash, what was lost? It's not clear, but today I'd say that it's close to 1,000 billion, that's what's lost, and that's 300 to 4,400 million taxes. These are so creepy numbers you just sweat. [[Up front.]] The loss there would, for example. budget $350,000. For ten years so the money doesn't need, there's plenty of it. There are requirements for a certain crop of pensions, and they are so large in Icelandic markets that I am deeply worried about it. True, they are trying to invest abroad, trying to get out, but somehow you have the impression that they have too much stock in the market and are actually just buying and selling. We're here with the special pension fund, it's really cool, everybody's too happy. Even young people now use their own savings to secure an apartment and thus enter an apartment market, many who would otherwise have been unable to do so. Imagine if those same people had all the pension behind them too. Why on earth should we not have it that way? This is part of our remuneration, and predicting how unbelievablely stupid we have created in this system, that we should have such a ridiculous system that you can pay for it for the rest of your life, even not take a cent out of it, and it just disappears to some pit. The information given; yes, they need to be earned if people run into disability. You can create a whole new system about it, you just don't have to be inside this system and really shouldn't be inside this system, it's just a breakdown. We know the absurdity of the system, the Icelandic pension fund, the micropower system, and it's become so much nonsense, it's become so repetitious, it's gone so stupid that you think at first it's a mistake, but I think it's simply deliberate and with the will to create a system that no one understands and everybody makes money on except those who own it, they lose. And imagine the cost of running this system the way it's built up. We know about the cost in a country, but we are not allowed to know about the cost abroad. There is no cost at all. It's not even a question of who gets it and who's working on it and how they're chosen. It's a corrupt system, unfortunately, it's just gonna have to say it the way it is. If it's not beneficial, there's something strange about it. In this system, people claim to have so much responsibility - we see all the responsibility they shouldered after the collapse of the bank, no one took any responsibility for the loss of 600 billion - and need a fourth million, many, monthly salary because of responsibility. Responsible for what? They have no responsibility. This is a pay factor that can be removed by simplifying the system, that it will be owned by an individual, and that it does exactly the same thing, it is not complicated, and it repairs its special savings. He owns what he does, the way he grows, whether he risks or not. As I've said so many times in this ridiculous world, the system is largely capitalist, but it's still the tax afterwards, like any other income. You have no choice, you have to pay for this. Part of this is withdrawn from your salary, part of this city pays the employer. As a result, this is just a value of pay. Why are we really letting employers, those who pay us our pay, control this system? In this morning's Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, president of VR, pointed out that any changes made by the employees, the labor movement, in the pension fund, would like to be made on a plain if employers are at hand. It's all democracy in this. So there's no democracy. It is hard to believe that the law is against employers'involvement in pay received to the relevant employees. There's a crash. It's also surprising that when a person who has paid for 40 years falls away from a spouse's receiving the minimum of a mate's minimum until it falls away, that's what we're doing. [[That's what we're doing.]] It's so natural, it's so simple, but unfortunately it seems that the simpler the system becomes, the more complicated it becomes to the government, and it seems, it cannot understand such simplicity. I'm simply saying that because governments have built up this system, the pension system, and the social security system, a boosted system, which has chain-muffled all over the place, even far beyond the level of well - being. I've got an example that shows the ridiculous thing about this. If you set 1K. In the system, as it was and is, you can lose 2K. Who makes such a system? Who's gonna be such a system? And why? We should ask ourselves that question. It's simple, it's the four groups, the Independence Party, the forward party, the Coalition and the Left Green - these are the groups that have always hired here. These are the classes that set this system up. These are the groups that maintain this system. These are the groups that will fight with their mouths and crush everything we set out here because it is not suitable for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u106	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct individual registration law, first-house community community. Short and simple. In 1st. says: ▪ After the word "eat " in paragraph 4. 1.mg. Section 6. The law comes: and, in the case of those born in this country, the country community of the first lawhouse. Two. says: "This law already comes into force. The bill has already been submitted to Council 150, 149, but it was not over. This suggested a change to 1 mg. 7. baby law. In accordance with Iceland's National Publications Index, review of the 150th legislation Council, this bill suggests a change in individual registration law, No. 140/209. In response to transport and local government ministers on deck. 659 of the 148th legislature states that the birthplace of a child is the name of the community of birth. A 2016 maternity report shows that 74.1% of all births were then at the National Hospital, 9.8% at the Akureyri Hospital, 7.3% at the Western Institute of Health, 2.1% at the Southnesia Institute of Health, 1.5% at the Southland Institute of Health at Seleucus, 0.1% at the Western Institute, 0.9% at the Western Institute for Health, 1.9% at the National Institute for Health, 0.3% at the National, and 2.1% of births are home food. According to this, children are actually born mainly to eight societies in the country. It is necessary to keep the number of births in the clinics and in other locations, while also in which group of children are first registered in a legal home. Regardless of where a mother had to go to feed her baby, such registrations are properly reprinted, but often it is necessary for women to travel long distances to attend maternity services. These include women in the Western Islands, almost without exception going to Reykjavík to give birth to their children, while only three children were born in the Western Islands in 2017. This is explained mainly because the age of the obstetric age in the Western Isles is D1, called D1, i.e. a small delivery unit in a medical facility where midwives operate as well as medical doctors. There is no operating room and there is no operating surgeon or obstetrician. Although the baby is born in Reykjavík because of the introduction of birth service in the Western Islands, it is a Western island and is only about to be registered in a national file. In order to ensure further registration of the child's origin regardless of place of birth, the bill is suggested that it be registered to a local society where a child is first registered in a legal home. In reviews or when members of a community come to committees and you have been asking about these exact issues, it has been difficult for them to get statistics about how evolution has been under childbirth or newcomers in each rural society, those who were born there. These data would surely help your rural society to keep track of natural population growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u107	A respectable president. This is a relatively simple case, a bill to legalize union laws and business disputes, votes. 1st par. It reads: ▪ After the first speech. 3 mg Section 5. The law shall come up with a new proverb, as follows: An empty vote shall be considered invalid, and it shall not be counted to the total number of terms paid. It's exactly like it's in the law of elections for the Generals. Two. is then referred to as a change that occurs on verse 15. The law, as it says. According to Leviticus, at 31 C.E. There's a new sentence added to the law, comparable to the one in 1st. g., that an empty vote should be evaluated invalid and is not considered as a full-scaled vote. This matter was previously submitted to the last legislation and is presented in a slightly altered form, i.e. it includes other decisions on the same subject. The bill suggests that a vote for the value of a collective contract is considered an empty vote invalid. For votes to be considered valid and to total paid votes, a vote will be required to take a position on whether the collective contract should be struck or approved. The bill also suggests that, on the other hand, there is a vote on the workaholics and on the other hand, at the vote on the mediation of reconciliations. A voter must therefore take his or her position on whether or not a job should be offered and, on the other hand, taking sides on whether the medium-sized reconciliation proposal should be dropped or accepted so that votes are considered valid and to the total amount of pay. In fact, all three factors have the same element, i.e. that an empty vote is not considered to be negative or positive in the sense of rejection or approval, given the individual votes. The subject of the bill is the sentence of Social Affairs, dated June 24, 2020, in the June No. 6/2020 is the value of the agreement on change and extension of the Icelandic naturalists' labour contract for the state's funds. In this matter, a difference was made in whether to count a vote on the value of a collective agreement should be counted with an easy vote when the total votes were expressed and to see if the contract was accepted or canceled. The case suggested that 564 votes for the contract, 265 of which had the contract, 278 against the contract, and 21 members of the Constitution came in with an easy vote. As a result, the collective agreement was deemed to have been approved but failed, although more votes had been paid against it. Thus, the verdict was that the collective agreement was not taken with a greater proportion of paid votes, since 265 plus 21 is 286 syllables, which are so remarkable. The aggressive votes were counted as yes-depth. According to the Federal Court of Social Affairs, there are no such instructions as those given in Article 3. Section 5. the law on unions and work conflicts and no other viewpoints applies to such votes on the value of public labour agreements. The conviction that the views laid down, therefore, would be equal to the vote for the value of the government labour agreement and the staff's collective labour market and, as a result, would be legalized. Therefore, based on the findings of the sentence, the interpretation of this law on unions and labour issues. The primary objective of the bill is to make clear all the facts about the results of a vote on the value of a collective agreement, the votes of a workaholic service, and the votes on the media law of reconciliations - all comparable regulations - in accordance with unions and labour agreements and making such votes comparable to other votes, e.g. General elections in which capital votes are considered invalid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u108	President. Let's get to the bottom of this round. This is the bill for the change in social security law, the removal of pensions due to failure. 1st par. Sounds like: We're 2nd. Section 16. The Law will add a new letter, as follows: To calculate the sum of the sum according to this section and the budget. Section 48. should not be taken into account as misdemeanors are judged. This bill suggests that misdeeds that are judged by individuals do not result in a decrease in their pensions under the law. It was previously proposed to a 149th and 150th legislators'Council and is now submitted unchanged. The goal of the bill is to support the disability and pensioners by preventing a decrease in pension because of the misdeeds they are sentenced to the trauma they face. The cases resulting in an individual's being reimbursed are unpredictable. The cost, therefore, is not really an cost to the state. Rather, the cost is in the form of not a pension reimbursement because of a convicted misimbursement. So, then, the cost would not have been greater than that would have been wronged. Here might be a comment regarding the wording, perhaps being interpreted as too formal. Since I say don't count on miscalculation as a pensioner, I'm not referring merely to a court procedure. There may also be an offer of compensation without a court order being passed on to the individual. There were comments from the Quantum Act that showed that there are certain letters in the law that might indicate that damages are not precisely impaired. But this example came from a person who had had been in trouble with this because of an offer of reform, in effect, contented with the failures that had not gone through the courts. Here we may need to consider that the wording will not be damaged, so it applies only to the court's way of handling damages or damages that are decided or offered through reconciliation. The bill is, in effect, designed to take away the doubt that might be due to the difference. I trust the Commission fully to see if there is anything in these joints that is already in the law and the process that could result in the failures that go through either reconciliation or something like that would not be the case. I look forward to seeing it settled, and if the law is clear in this regard, then it would be good to get an accounting for it because the reason why the case is presented is this misleading message.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u109	Madam President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on income taxes, no. 90/2003. The bill's forwarders, as well as here, aren't they? The members of Brubbar Níelsson's Gunnarsson, Jón Grenson, Friðriksson, Brutísdótttir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Haraldur the son of Benediktsson. In fact, the bill is simple, just one paragraph. It presents a warrant for tax recovery on the basis of domestic aid, which includes drawing up a maximum of 1,800,000 dollars. a year since income taxation strain for individuals, i.e. an average of 150,000. per month. It is designed to reach the work assigned here in the country in a person's home and in a cottage where a person lives. The same is true of such jobs in the garage and in storage, a limited garden, as in the driveway around the home or in the cottage of an individual. Such services include e.g. Standard household chores, such as cleaning and cleaning, traditional gardening, snowing on sidewalks, and driving home. When a partner's partner's house handles expenses from a joint fund because of such work on the market, a person can cut his share in the cost from his income tax stock. At the same time, it is intended to include other means of care, such as the care of members of the household because of illness or disability, the care of children, including children who hide. in association with children in and out of high school, school, and other school activities. The decision is also intended to assist an individual in the field of travel to and from home, e.g. trips to clinics, banks, or similar places. The objective of this bill is also to resist a black job as well as to improve the rights of the people who are working today for the work listed here. This includes some of them. We mean pensions and unemployment benefits. Transporters believe that by legalization of tax payments because of the purchased domestic aid, individuals and families, and especially children's families, are being met in many ways. Then the change will also benefit older people who want to stay in their own home but who need a service to handle household cleaning and other light household chores. It should be noted that comparable sources of tax recovery include: can be found in Sweden, Denmark, and Finland, although they vary from country to country. In 2011 the effects of deduction were examined by the Swedish tax authorities. It revealed that black activity, but under that definition, the same is true. Work at home support, would have decreased by 10% between 2005 and 2011. Similar reports of Denmark, while the Danish tax authorities have received more reports from the public on black employment after recovery from income taxation strains on this basis. Madam President. It is a simple bill that especially deals with family members and, in particular, older citizens who need a certain service. They meet families who need help because of a home's illness or disability, etc. This is a matter of righteousness that I hope to achieve. After this discussion, I would like the case to go to the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u110	A respectable president. Interesting business, including the comparable sources in Sweden, Denmark, and Finland. I wondered that the cost of this money for the state funds is probably the same if you go the other way. Instead of providing tax recovery for those who buy the service, it would be just as much as possible to pay extra for credit reports or such from those who do the work. Then there is no reimbursement for the one buying the service; it is accompanied by a process of confidentiality and trouble. It is easier to see that such a task is simply given a discount or an extra payment even with it. To some extent, it is simpler to do this, you would think, since the right to reimburse is available only if the person is applying. Several things might go wrong in this regard. Some may not go through the process or something like that and miss the right to reimburse while the divorce comes automatically as soon as a work report is submitted to the tax. There is, in fact, perfect efficiency there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I'm not going to rule out the idea here. But I'm going to point out one for you right now. Other than the objective of this bill, i.e. to make it easier for children's families to cope with the illness of a household and to help out, and beyond meeting older citizens who need a certain service, family help, even cleaning, cooking, etc., we are also trying to draw on the surface of certain black jobs. These black jobs will only be able to reach the surface if the payer is motivated to inform us of their payment. If I'd understood the suggestion. A senator's rights is not such an incentive, though the person does his job, that he is given in order to get some kind of reimbursement on the merit tax in the way this is done. What we're saying: We're encouraging those who buy their jobs to give up their pay. They will surface, and at the same time, Madam President, it will happen that the rights of those who are doing these jobs will be increased; right to pension, right to unemployment, etc. I think that we have the urgent method of achieving these goals in two ways: one to assist those who need to buy this service and the other who may have been under our radar, which we do not want to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u112	A respectable president. This is exactly the same budget that goes either to the one buying the service or to the one selling the ministry. What I'm saying is, if you sell the service, if you do the job, if you do the job, if you do it, you give it all the evidence you need, that your operation is not black, and that it receives exactly the same reward as the other side of the example, in the form of a tax exchange. So it's exactly the same thing. Either the discount is tax, $150,000. in a month to the one buying the service, or a quarter of a year. a month to that which sells the service. It is the exact same coin, unless there is even a specific economic growth procedure, by injection on the other side or by means of an equation, the price of the purchase is lower because it returns when the person sells returns all the data needed to obtain the missing ones. It is an incentive to return data and not make the operation black by obtaining the exact same amount of money that the other party gets that buys the service. Usually, the person who sells the service, the contractor, the man who comes and finishes all his work, makes his way back, and so on. It should be the one who returns all the taxes and fees and information about the work, you'd think.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-17-21.u113	Madam President. I just disagree. Senator. I'm gonna take an example, because of what. A senator turned aside from the hard work of traders. In spring, we made a decision to repay a valuable tax from industrial workers at a construction site to 100%, complete. That's a smart operation. What has been the experience? Yes, we know that, for example. that some rural communities see their outbacks rising because they did not encourage them to give up their jobs. This moved to give up the job because the one buying the ministry was not benefiting from sharing in a black - language job. When we reduced the payment rate from 100% to 60% in 2015, if I remember correctly, what happened then? At that time, industrial employment provided a tax cut. The insurance fees of such work became lower, and government funds lost, even though he reduced payments from a valuable tax. The person who bought a service to accept that service and pay it without a bill being published had become an incentive. That's exactly why we transport the bill. [[The president calls.]] And I hear it at what? A senator's conclusion is that he agrees that those who need to buy service for home assistance are to be met.
