ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u1	Mr. President. We're here discussing a big, big case, authorized to establish an official transport stock on the construction of transport infrastructure in the capital area. We in the Middle East have said, and I realize in a special appeal, that we welcome the emphasis on the construction of transport workers in the capital area. We are particularly welcome to modern development of the light management of the capital area, an agreement on construction projects, the estimated structure of bicycles and other eco-friendly transport, but we cannot agree with the plans for building a city line. We have made quite clear, though much remains to be said about it. I'm gonna go over a few things on this bill. Two. says about the purpose and objective of the club, by permission of the president: The objectives of the company shall be as follows: a. To promote legal, efficient, economic, and safe transport in the capital area, with the same structure for all transport. I'm just going to stop by the word "horrible." You ask yourself, " Is the urban line an efficient transport system? ' The urban population has an estimated 70 billion dollars. I'm sure I'll grow up. For that amount, there are other and more effective ways to improve transportation in the capital area. This is an incredibly big investment. Let us also consider in this context what is the financial situation of those in this agreement. It is listed who are shareholders. Of course, it's a government fund, it's the main part of this with a 75% possession share, and then it's Reykjavíkurburg, Gardentown, Hafnarfjög Zeal, Kópavogsville, Mosfellstown, Seltjanas. As a result of the viral epidemic, we know that it has greatly affected the financial status of the state and the rural society and is heading for a government fund to be thrown out with at least 300 billion bucks. low as a result of the viral epidemic. Likewise, rural areas in the capital area have not been affected by the impact the virus epidemic has caused on the economy of rural society. The rural communities have requested assistance of the state's funds and have contributed that the government fund strengthens the rural areas in the capital area and across the country with unrefunded financial resources. Reykjavíkurburg, who owes over 100 billion dollars. and well over 300 billion in the overall setting, that I think, has requested financial support. Sentences from Reykjavíkurbourg came upon a financial committee, and at the same time, these parties plan to make an enormous investment of tens of billions in the coming years. Mr. President. Common sense dictates that we pause to consider whether we have a master over the matter of attacking this enormously costly structure. There are other costs and smaller ways to improve traffic flow in the capital, and there are other sacrifices. So I'll put a question mark at this point and make serious comments to this, Mr. President. Here's the financial situation, the economic situation of the state and the rural society, that I'm not reasonable in making this partnership, as suggested here, and in addition to this huge sacrifice. Over the years, significant investments have been made in the lanes, and some are to be brought under the city line. Then buses will use only the means for transportation that are under automobiles today. Then, parking lots and green areas are naturally being sacrificed too, so do not forget. Green areas are being sacrificed, such as ... inCententineland. There is a green area to be placed in, but the area is also being sacrificed under city transport efforts. It is to be crossed across the hall, which is now a green area. Also, it should not be forgotten that this is accompanied by a large degree of traffic disorder. There will be traffic 15 to 15 years, some of which will be relatively close to an apartment site and will cause big noise to the inhabitants. Because I am discussing the practicality, which is specifically defined in Article 2. The bill, then, is the prerequisite for the construction of the city line to make public effort to travel with public transportation tripled from the present level. Now there are only 4% of travel in the capital area by bus, but the ratio has to reach 12%, so we're going to make it work. We have traced it here, and it has been pointed out that this rate has been attempted to rise at high cost and is very difficult. You ask yourself, " What is it that makes it possible for humans to succeed in increasing so much in this process? ' If this requirement fails, if it fails to increase this rate, at least three times, the premium of the city's operating line is broken, and the loss may be worth billions of years each year. I don't see that what's said on the bill, to promote economic transport, is going to work. I think this process is inefficient and risky, and, as I said before, it could be done with smaller expenditures and, in many ways, far more effective in improving transport here in the capital area. Two. is said to contribute to efficient transportation. Now I've only considered the practicality, but I think that concept in the bill is very freely applied. Then, if we look at the practicality that is specifically suggested here, we will ask: Is the increasing capacity of transport? I'm not quite sure about that. There is only a small demand for transport, as it were, that the city line offers. It will have a huge cost if it becomes a half - number of carriages passing through, an enormously expensive system. We do know, however, that the type of transport ability, so to speak, now in the area and is worthy of being cut off. It is to be cut down and used by means of a means of transportation that has been prepared for this construction. Then it must be logical to conclude that there will be an increase in traffic congestion, especially in view of the fact that nothing is in the maps to greatly increase the number of people who make use of the public routes they are using. It's very interesting to consider a report by the Danish Advisor Corporation on the city line. It confirms that today's demand is not sufficient. It will not be sufficient, and specific measures must be taken to promote the demand. Then you ask yourself, " Where is the efficiency in it? ' In fact, it can be read from this report that certain forcedness measures are necessary to get people to use this transport and that they will be suggested to get public cars first in traffic, as is this conservative parking policy. And when you are being pressured toward the most of our means today, it seems obvious to me that there is an effort to direct people into this means of transportation that I have serious doubts about going through. B-team 2. The bill says that this is part of the government's climate targets. Is this so that the city line will be some kind of eco-efficient but, for example, electric cars, which have increased dramatically in the capital area? I think, in the capital, electric cars will probably become a major part of automobiles after 10 to 15 years. This agreement is to apply until 2033, and I'm not sure that the city's carriages have some eco-efficiency but electrical vehicles. A heavy, large city line wagon must be a pretty good source of energy for each passenger to be less than for every passenger on a light electric truck. Aren't you supposed to watch that, too? Of course, it is a good price for this transport to be an electric waste. But how many come to use them? And as the rate of wagons increases, this is not clear? And unlike electric cars, city line cars will often drive empty. I think it's perfectly clear that buses are today at a time of half an hour. Is there anything that says that it will be different when this arrangement is established? There's no need to drive empty cars, we know that. Then, unlike passengers traveling by the city line, the natural person who travels on a electric vehicle can choose the shortest route to his destination, thus saving more energy. It must be that way. And then the roads are broken. It is naturally based on the degree of size, and it is quite clear that the more it is, the more it gets out of existence, the more it's going to be cut off, the more it's going to be a thousand times with one light electric car. More fragments call for more maintenance of the road and the use of oil. And not to be overlooked, as it is said, that the manpower such as this is an enormous amount of energy, i.e. building the city line, resulting in expected massive greenhouse gas emissions, but human activities will be of only those who make use of the city line. This must involve a measure of waste when it is found that using it will not be the way it is put to use because we have experience with it. However, electric cars can use to the full the forces that are already there, do not forget. So I put a lot of notice on the climate targets in this process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I have not been able to get far into my speech and wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u2	Mr. President. During these last few days, the Central Party has offered an extensive coverage of the transport programme, which actually needs to be approved for a intermission. It was more than 30 talks for a member of the council, perhaps a misspoken one. There are nine of them, so it's 270 speeches, maybe closer to 300, and the hours have gone somewhere between 40 and 50. The majority of the discussions have dealt with capital transportation, especially the city line, and during the course of which, at any rate, may be very demanding and temporary. We will discuss here under a special program a part of transport bill in the capital area and the back city line that has been covered for days by one of the Central Party. The evidence I've heard since then. paritaprevir I've heard Þórarinsson's brother before. So I'm going to ask a simple question: Given the registration of talks, I think there's 10 or 15 just about this case, is it going back to one of the over-bolted numbers and rights of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u3	Mr. President. I'm just going over the bill, okay? Senator, over a few things on the bill. I don't see anything unusual about me starting what I've mentioned before when I discussed a specific road program and a city line. There's a lot of teams here. It discusses efficiency, efficiency, climate targets, traffic security. It's all in the bill. Senator. It's not unusual for me to discuss it here during the discussion. I think, for example. I just haven't come that far, we both need to make some changes. and 7th pars. Besides, I'd like to see a new headline at 8. and I also have comments at the 9. There's a lot of stuff in this bill that I would've wanted to do a lot of serious stuff, and I'll reiterate again, okay? A senator, here, is an enormous and enormous debt of debt just ahead of tens of billions of dollars. It's perfectly normal for us to go over it well. I personally, sitting on a budget committee, made comments on the bill within the committee, and now we're in the Senate Hall to review it, so I think I have every right to go over it exactly. If there's something too late to go over this matter, then it's just gonna have to be. These are huge financial interests, and we are all guardians of the state's funds and are to review carefully what can be done, etc. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u4	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I was just pointing out that in these over 300 speeches, or whatever it is, all of this has been answered by the Middle Party. We have many opinions about these specific points. But this tata has led to an amazing speaking of speech. We've heard one speech here, very pleasant, by reason of reason. paritaprevir The Sigurður of the son of Páll Jónsson over rams and rats, who, of course, are linked to the city line, and I'm going to commend the senator, who is not sitting here, for the fun, not the delay. I cut it at the end of the day. Þórarinsson Birgir quoted an old newspaper article because we were talking about climate goals, which involved the use of oil cars that make up the city line and was discussing that it would probably be 65 litres in the hundred. Now there's a show across the street where it's clear that the city line is going to run for domestic energy sources, electricity or other, and that's going to be the bus. So all talk about the lack of the climate is unique. But what I want to ask when it comes to it. A senator carries a number of these, a hundred gallons [65 L], from an old newspaper article, doesn't he know better? Has he not crossed the street, or is he trying to fool us on purpose? If he doesn't know what to say, just look up, okay? Senator, in your own speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u5	Mr. President. No, I don't know if I've mentioned about 65 gallons [65 L] of oil in a talk. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u6	Quote in... Quote in a newspaper article.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u7	Am I not in response to my speech?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u8	Quote in a newspaper article.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u9	There is no mention of 65 gallons [65 L] of oil. I'll bet you will, then. A senator, as I mentioned in my speech, said that these cars will come to use electricity, and that was what I was going through. I never mentioned any oil.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u10	In the first speech...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u11	I'm not in answer to an answer, huh? A senator, Mr President, on my speech? That's what I would have thought. Now's the time. A senator starts to turn his back and slow down by bringing something that doesn't matter what I was saying. I just went, okay? Senator, over the climate issue on this bill, as says in B-team 2. ......, promoting government climate goals. I can't see that there's such a big part of this. It's just that way. I did well over the fact that these cars are, for example, cars. I'm sure it's really heavy. It results in causing road erosion, and after 10 to 15 years, many electrical vehicles, if not only become more part of the automobiles in the capital area, and their use is very good, they are very environmentally friendly. Is there, though, an environmental need to drive heavy electric buses, perhaps at the start of a half - life? I can't see that. Then it is the natural structure that has an enormous environmental impact on emissions and so on. I have to say, what? Senator, that you just haven't listened well enough to what I was saying before.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u12	Mr. President. It's quite remarkable, actually. A senator is concerned about half a train or a bus car, but then he celebrates his own private car, which is driven to a large extent by one to two passengers, so they are expected to be half-emptys too. I'd understand the concern if we were doing an experiment that no one else was following after themselves in the world. But the situation is that very many cities are going this way, those that did not already have public transportation. Perhaps the biggest lump in the United States that had developed very subsistence communities that I will consider in my talk to some extent. But I just want to talk about doubts as a matter of course. There's a senator on climate issues. He balances this transportation with his private car and talks about the greater success of road wear because these are heavy cars. I know what you're doing. A senator does not study the research that shows that effective public transportation directly leads to more dense and less urbanity? Hv. A senator himself mentioned the cost that falls because of unnecessary miles of paint. Does he not assume, then, that this way is just the right way to lead to secondary savings in energy waste?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. This is exactly what I was discussing earlier when I talked about efficiency. That's what it's all about, isn't it? A senator, how many people come to use this means of transportation, and it is being completely blinded into the sea. Hv. A senator is well acquainted with this discussion. The number of people who use the public transportation system in the capital area has been increased, and they have put enormous money in it. But this has yielded no results, so you have become deeply concerned about it. The report by the Danish Advisor enterprise shows that there is simply a need for drastic action to increase the number of people who use this transport method because the current demand is not going to be sufficient. This means that it is only albino when we have an enormous cost of transportation and are setting out on that road when there is very little uncertainty about how many people come to use that transport, it's not really efficient, nor is there much positive environmental policies in this regard. I think it's pretty clear that this is one of the major factors involved, that this project has to triple the number to travel with these chariots. That's easier said than done. A senator, and for this there is not enough solid evidence to follow. And because of what? A senator specifically mentioned that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u14	Mr. President. It is clear that there is, of course, a lesson to be learned from other nations, and this type of transportation may be older than the public use of the private car. We have good and bad experience from both, and we can avoid hell. So we're not totally blind to the water. However, this is a radical operation. It is quite clear what is needed for public transportation to be ideal. It combines a good frequency, an efficient system of means, and, of course, a comparison of the costs between two different possibilities. However, there is also evidence to suggest that this efficient public transport model, which is the basis for the European Contamination as well. A senator and chairman of the Middle Party have spoken of an advantage, also leading to other advantages. That's what makes the building like, for example. a hiker, a bicycle receiver, and in the process of promoting other eco-friendly transport, a road model that is virtually solely based on the private car's not doing so. It's not that we run blind into the water. There's nothing to look at but the west of the sea and see what problems the communities there have come from building on the American car city, by grouping and separation, and in that I can follow in my speech. We're not running blind to the water.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u15	Mr. President. I have to say, I don't agree. A senator's lack of this means of transportation is because we should look to the experience and it's not good for getting people to use this means of transportation. To triple the number of people, I think that a project that costs enormous sums of money is very optimistic. Hv. A senator talks a little about the environmental factor in this. It is possible to pay for traffic in the city of Reykjavík with a much smaller amount of expenses, e.g. ... witha building of false corners. Tafins are naturally not environmentally friendly, we know that, but if it could be solved at a lower cost, I think that's much better. Hv. A senator then spoke about quality of life, walking, and all that. We're here at the Central Party to celebrate. We welcome the emphasis on cycle footpaths and footpaths, on the light control system, etc. These are all very important assignments. But I'd like to encourage some guys, too. A senator to learn that along this line there is to be a population that is soon thought - out so that it is short to take advantage of this means of transportation. Has a what? A senator, e.g. Did one of our best - known strategists, Trausti Valsson, study very interesting views? He's had a lot of doubts about this part, i.e. building next to the line, that it's unattractive, and not the style we're looking for in terms of eco-friendly and interesting communities. I got it. I got it. A senator to learn that too. There's a lot of sides on this, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u16	Mr. President. I'm not going to continue my counter-reactivitys, I can tell you what's going on. A senator that tells me that I have studied the viewpoint of the restist Trausti Valsson. This suggests that there have been organizational matters for 30 or 40 years, except for my working on them, one of my main interests. So I've studied his point of view and so many others, and then you draw some conclusions from it and, of course, the experience. However, I am moved to conclude that this is a matter of enormous importance to discuss, which is essential for us to complete at this assembly. In the bill, the purpose of the project is well described: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... To promote legal, efficient, efficient, and safe transport in the capital area, with the same structure for all transport. b. To help achieve the government's climate targets on sustainable, noncarboneous urban communities. c. To increase traffic security. d. to ensure effective cooperation between state and rural society in the capital area on staging solid structures in infrastructure. Added to this, we too are contributing to the increased quality of life in the community. We are promoting more production, which is achieved by transport in the streets and by automobiles, wheels, and walkings to a greater degree so that people can simply do more work during the day. Finally, though, I must not forget the factors that I feel are too often forgotten when talking about public transportation and is actually the key to public transport discussions long before man realized that the desired climate goals could be achieved with them. It is the social and economic aspect that attracts the public. For example, public transportation, trams, subways, and bus have provided the basis for most and best - known cities, and this has not only been the most prominent factor in the discussion. The ability to travel without having to run a car only has tremendous economic and social advantages for people and homes, especially those of the chemical memory. In fact, I doubt that state or rural society is possible to achieve greater, more efficient, more efficient and less efficient support for these households than by giving them a choice of saving one or even two cars. Indeed, public transportation needs to be good. And it will take time. But this must be our objective, for this is the exact way in which all other cities are going, even the cities that have historically built on this road. It is closer to Copenhagen, Gothenburg, Stockholm, and Oslo. It goes even further, and it's hardly because it thought they were running blind into the ocean and pursuing some unfortunate monopoly. There are some who will choose to drive a car forward. I think that's an essential option in our large, dispersed country. I don't have any comments to that. I support, however, that we further push people into using eco-efficient vehicles driving on green energy. But there are other things about the car than the energy source that does not make it ideal for people in a community. The space he takes is extremely valuable. Cities usually travel about 10 to15% of their time, while 70-80% of their time is kept in parking lots. In the usual groups of cars, each car consumes 25 square feet [25 square m] from the country, while the parking lot on the same side is 12 square feet [12 square m]. It's better that way, but it's enormous. I have often discussed the qualities of the car, which some have shaken their heads, and that have been much more discussed in the organizational talk, the skill of the one who really makes us free, enables us to live anywhere and work everywhere and to attend any place of recreation. Then there is not much discipline in building cities and making them more practical. But the key to living in cities is simply to live smaller lives, to live closer to one another, and to eat less. I believe, however, that the structure of the city line can be useful to those who still prefer to be on or have to be on a car. I'm not gonna belittle it, there's a lot of people who are gonna have to keep using their private car, and that's for many reasons, except that they're totally free choice. But a city line may also be practical for them because, according to traffic forecasts to 2050, with a single system, it is only going to absolute disaster. In fact, in cities west of the ocean as well as in southern European cities it is not working because it has always come to some neck of the bottle where everything is stopped. So I think this way can only be very useful for private car owners, too, so that the interests of these groups - if the project is successful, of course it all matters, I agree with it. A senator that matters that it is well done, and this is predictable - goes together. Therefore, as I said before, it is urgent and urgent to turn to this. Mr. President. First of all, it is quite historic that the rural communities here have a somewhat different kind of control, i.e. with regard to classes, have come together as ambitious and clear as the future, so that the present opportunity is quite remarkable and may not necessarily be given at any time. This will agree with something that will appear in a paper with the bill, with the permission of a president: ▪ Modern economic conditions, with rapid decline in demand and economy, small investments, and long - term investment halls, also call for public investments. Thus, the influence of public investments on economic demand may be limited in this situation without promoting inflation or leading to higher growth levels. It is obvious that the effects of the contractions can become serious, and there is a special risk of substantial unemployment. In general, government funds can increase their investments in order to achieve two economic goals. On one hand, to support demand with emphasis on implementation of national production factors. However, to promote increased production, with emphasis on economic profitable projects. In this situation, it is important to maintain the government investment level and help to speed up projects. Now I'm not saying that this is something that we're at odds with. I've certainly been aware that the Central Party is not going to be on its team when it comes to making use of this investment and making investments, so that I can get it clear, and the council has, in effect, with us. proposed adjustments to the government's investment programme, which goes beyond the government's expectations. But we differ, and there is nothing to say. We may approach as we speak more alike, perhaps moving away from one another, and that's just the way it is. I have no objection to the fact that the subject takes place in material, careful, and careful discussions that all views deserve to be heard. But I think it's important that we focus on this project as well as on climate. In the years to come, our major project to Icelanders simply has to unwind the man's unbridled persecution on earth, the longest part certainly without our realizing what we were doing. But the debt we have accumulated that will have to pay off our children and grandchildren has become so great that we simply have to make some drastic decisions. I think that the rational and efficient development of the transport workers offered here, which is a mixture of public transportation, more efficient footpaths, biking and footpaths, will be able to play a major role in it. In fact, there is a need to emphasize the use of transportation and good public transportation throughout the country. We live in such a country that in the capital area, 70% of the people live, so at the beginning of the 20th century, we decided to organize ourselves so that a major part of all service was here. But that must have meant that those who choose, become, or want to live elsewhere in the country have access to the capital. So I think that the construction of the city line, along with the other actions to take place, is the key to the long-term success of urban development in the capital area and saves such a massive amount of transport that also costs enormous amounts of money, let's not forget it. But in my opinion and as far as I have read, such monuments have not yielded to the results they were supposed to make. It's actually so bad in America's worst cities, where poorer people and the chemical memory are pushing further and further into the suburbs and they can because the only car enables them to do so, that the city environment will be so intense that it cannot be met by public transportation because they cannot be efficient enough. The system's going to be too complicated. In many places the cost of housing has become secondary to the household expenses behind the car. And then the food comes. This has led to the largest, more radical theories, projects, and plans that we now know in organizational matters in the United States, not Europe. There are countless examples of this, and it can be shown that functioning, good and efficient public transportation ensures more densely populated areas, and they also support the structure, which is something we think is ideal, i.e. This European city. In 2008 it was the first year of human history, with as many people living in city and rural areas as it is expected that 70% of the world's population will live in a city in 2050. We're way back here. But our urbanisation begins so late in some serious way that we have basically built up just the foundation of the American car city where grouping and separation are the way, not mixed up. We may not have much of a European city environment except maybe just around the Hotel City and Reykjavíkura Pharma. But we can go back. It just doesn't work. The climate will be one of the major subjects of our next decades. We have no choice. We have taken progressive steps toward energy exchange, but we must go beyond that. The cities are, as I mentioned earlier, here to stay. It is an amazing invention, and in many ways it is a driving force, both economic growth and, of course, a spiritual lump that also meets a man and a woman and a man and a woman. It simply happens, so let us not minimize the remarkable invention of the city. A powerful city can have a powerful effect far beyond the city line and also into the rural area. So I don't think it's just the capital interest that it's gonna be like this, I think it's the best interests of the whole country. It is simply so that a strong capital city needs strong settlements, but a strong capital city certainly needs strong settlements too. We may forget a little bit about it. Yet, they say: We need to build a foundation. We have to build less, and we have to live closer to each other, and we have to allow people to travel without using wild beasts, unnecessary large means of transport for their private car, although certainly they will always be part of us into the long future, even though I sometimes doubt that people are concerned about the really nature of the car's life. This is only about 100 years of invention and, in fact, much later that car becomes public property. That may be just 70 or 80 years. But we assume that it will remain unchanged forever, and I think it is very inconceivable. I think the car will actually run itself out in the way we've been using it; to get into the store, to go to the movies, and so on. It is necessary in a country like ours. It is essential for some people who can use only themselves, but as common consumers from day to day, where we go to work or to shop or at sports, there he will probably just be history. I think there's a lot to say that we have the courage to attack this radical, bold idea because the situation is there. We have an agreement between these many major rural communities in the capital area and the forwardness of the transport minister and the government, and then we have this economic relaxation that is ideal for such a massive structure. But eventually I can agree with what. Birgir The brother of Þórarinsson, who spoke before, surely we have some questions to answer, and we surely need to take more pride in taking on measures that increase the number of passengers who choose to use this route. But I think that when we face the problem that confronts us because of our persecution on the earth, when we look back and see how urban development has been in the cities that have been built on public transportation for 150 years and the rest of the private car's reasons, the answer is quite clear. We're going the right way. Let us, then, rather than deal with the different ways to go, recognize that much more of the council wants to go that way. And I'm happy that if the members of the Central Party come with us so much in an effort to strengthen the foundation for the way we're going to go because there's bound to be a lot more to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. The debate indicated that the senator has experience in the world of organizational and architectural organizations and is very good. It is always fun to listen to people who can impart knowledge and experience. The Senator certainly does. I think I can join the senator in saying that public transportation is enormously important and that it becomes more important. Their distribution, however, is something we can always talk about. What I'm most worried about with this discussion is including the cost of a project that I don't find out, the responsibility for the project, the handling of certain items if it is taken care of, etc. It is in itself the local community to negotiate with the State for the construction of this city and all that. I miss it a bit, though, and maybe come into my speech afterwards, not seeing ideas about how bus, electric cars, or environmentalized cars could use such a new one. The same lanes in some way that we build up the system we have today. But I'd like to ask the senator about something. The part society bill expects 60 billion of these 105 or 110 billion that the state itself is supposed to guarantee that its costs, expenses, or what we call them will be due. I'd like to ask the Senator if we're really, by agreeing with this, as this is suggested, to agree to pick up the speeds of transport in Iceland, to pick up charges, and to have users pay? We've been on a similar line when it comes to this so-called cooperation project, i.e. the need to explain what is involved in quick charges.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u18	Mr. President. In fact, with the 60 billion, the cost may be further reduced, but there is certainly a considerable funding expected with some kind of payment. I'm just thinking that we're going to have to ask who she's going to bite especially. We cannot accept the taxation of roads so that poor people, perhaps because of the cities that have been built up, have moved to the suburbs. I will not be a spokesman for any discharge at any time. But with modern technology, with GPS technology and other real-time data, speed costs can be quite effective, too, in achieving energy savings. Doing so can also help you to get ready. I can't rule out that such remuneration can be very serious if it doesn't get more sensitive groups than others, and that's just an export. This may be the priority into the future we are running into when the oil and gasoline charge disappears. On the other hand, I can criticize the government for not taking up the vital role that will be paid earlier so that it is clear before we receive all these bills in which both the city and the country's wages are addressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u19	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer. I made this up because I feel that there's a conflict in my mind that we're actually going to agree with an unpublished payoff on this case, but I'm probably going to be against it in cooperation projects. There's something else I'd like to go over with a bang. Senator. I can agree with what the senator said in his talk about the interests of these groups, between those who need or want to use public transportation and those who use the private car, can go together. But they can do it at that point when the use of public transportation is good enough, because if it's not good enough, the deal is really just for the latter group. The government will probably have to represent at least The 105, 110 billion compared to the arrangement here drawn up. Is the senator not concerned about coming to the point that the State will have to pay all these funds to cover other financial expenses? That we need to cut down our business somewhere else so that we can live up to the enormous responsibilities there is to agree with?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u20	Mr. President. I'm going to protest that there's something inconsistencies between having a prior rate of remuneration on land and the above idea. Of course, we will resist the payment of the capital area that we feel is out of place. I think measures such as Daffy Ways are excellent for some kind of payment and private work because it's a clear way past. I have my doubts about paths where the only gap between us, like Seydrum, is that the world is in a tunnel. I can't live with a currency in such a situation. I don't think that's normal. Of course I'm worried. A senator, of all costs, these and, of course, are the high costs that take place far and wide and in the street system all over the country. We have seen a number of projects too much ahead of schedule, and perhaps we should improve the quality of our plans. But this is not just the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u21	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator at the moment's speech. There were some points where I thought the evidence was wrong. He witnessed to the cities of Copenhagen, Gothenburg, Stockholm, and Oslo, where the people live from 600 thousand to a million. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: What in Reykjavík is in common with these cities? Hv. A senator rightly stated that these social benefits were recorded there. Then I'd like to ask. A senator whether he has studied what has happened in Álaborg, Denmark, a city of similar size to that of Reykjavík. There's no city line, and she's not planning. They have canceled their plans for easy trains, but they have a real street - car system where buses have a high - frequency travel rate and a dense network. Hv. In his final answer, a senator said that we had stopped making good plans. But in this case, there was a problem. Senator: We want to get involved. In the Middle East, we don't think this plan is worth a lot of fish, that there's a lot we need in order to be able to, for example. to realize whether this cost plan will come to pass, the sums of 50 billion as a government fund is about to give up by selling the greatest jewel of the Crown, i.e. It's the country. First of all, I'd like to ask who. A senator on this thing with the cities, and secondly with the plan, whether he thinks it's planned and what we're up to now is enough to say, "Hey, let's do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u22	Mr. President. I wouldn't have given talks, since I've probably told you four or five times that we have to attack this project if I didn't think it was necessary to do it. You see, saving the project will be several times more than that of having a simple system. We Icelanders tend not to think far ahead when we're making the cost cut. If we look e.g. how we deal with the cost of monuments, we have weight prices, design, and construction, and then we stop. Very many nations have property prices, design, construction, 50 years of business, and subversives. That gives you the right number. What I'm saying with this has been shown in reports that secondary savings from the project is so great that I think this will be a less risky operation than many others. Then I come to the first question that concerns Reykjavík and the Norwegian cities have in common. Unfortunately, too little still. This task allows us to approach them only to build up and make the city of Reykjavík more densely established and to the greater city and neighboring communities linked. I think we can really get close. True, Reykjavík is a smaller city, but these cities were once less. Not many decades since Oslo was still smaller. I don't know the example of Álaborg, but I don't think there's anything valid about being on public transportation, whether it's a bus, a trolley, or a train. If they've had good reason to go as far as they go, they'll have at least one. Want to bet on public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u23	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Just to make it clear, the Central Party is a follower of public transportation. One of the party's struggles at the last mayor's election was "free in the bus. " I'm sorry, though. A senator should not have studied the Holy See because it speaks of a city similar to that of Reykjavík. What I may have stressed, and that's why I wanted to ask this question, is that I would have considered it desirable that we would go a similar way as they went to Álún. that we would try to make use of the bus system we have, try to improve, rather than save by destroying 50 billion - like a whale. A senator is suggesting that we save it. Papers yesterday finally found that the cost of operating at the city line is more than 2 billion a year. Then I'm gonna ask you what. Senator: Where are we saving when 2 billion additional business expenses and 50 billion just from the state's building costs?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u24	Mr. President. As I said earlier, the life span of the project and how it comes according to the present situation must be considered in order to get a realistic view of whether it is justified in attacking them or not. We haven't. However, this has been shown to be a significant amount of savings, so we should go this way. Of the fact that U.S.A. is necessarily the body of Reykjavík and its areas just because its population is similar, I doubt it. I think the level in Hálborg is considerably higher than in the capital area. Right is second, Reykjavík climbs to 100 feet above sea level, but Álúli is flat, and that makes it different. [[The president calls.]] I think every city needs its own way. The key point is that the cities are going to stop using their own private car as their first choice and play out public transport plans. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u25	The president asks why. Senators watch out for speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I have to say, though, first I don't agree with it. A senator says that the family car on the streets of Reykjavík is magnificent. It's just that many families really need the car, e.g. to drive preschool children, etc. in different weathers, I protest this approach. Senator. I'd like to get in on it as well. A senator mentioned. He went a little over major cities in the United States, and now I've lived in the United States, and I know what it's like to be on the streets of those cities. I lived just outside the U.S. capital city of Washington, where there is a massive construction of roads, and I don't think it would be like to mention Reykjavíkurburg in that context. Reykjavíkurburg is now just like a small country road compared to these big cities in the United States. Hv. A senator looked only to the future, and that's a good thing. But what do you think? A senator of these huge changes, the technology revolution, and the other things ahead, self - destructive cars, and so on, which we now see especially in the viral epidemic, that people are working more at home, telecommunications, and using telecommunications are growing, and people will not travel as far back as they can do? In the lake, there's a huge change in society, and then there's technology. We don't have to look to that, do we? A senator who is given such an enormously expensive task as this project?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u27	Mr. President. I wasn't talking about the size of the cars myself, and I repeated twice in my talk that many people need cars, especially now when public transportation is no better than they are. It can be a child's family, older people, people with disability, and, of course, we have to assume that. I'm talking about the secondary projects that need to go on if our present route, to have our private car as our first transportation, to be on top, and then I'll just watch population development to 2050 in the capital area. I think, however, that's quite right. A senator that the changes in society and technology we are going through can play a key role, including to reduce the use of cars, to fight climate problems, to increase production, and to do wonderful things if we keep our cards right. I'm not an expert on self-driving cars, but I don't think Iceland will ever lead them to evolution, despite being a small country that's soon developed technology, and many have predicted that the country will lead it. There are many reasons for this. First, our street system is not ready, nor is it possible to take on such traffic. Second, we live in the weather, and even if the car is able to drive itself, it will certainly not be able to dissipate and push itself. There are many factors that make us need to wait and see what the trend will be where conditions are simply more practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Speaking of these changes in society, we've seen it so tangible in the viral epidemic that much of the population is interested in working at home. The situation that has developed as a result of the viral epidemic has been a test of that arrangement. It's been going so well, and we can see, for example. Here many of the council's employees have worked at home and have done their work very well and had a good relationship with members of the council. Here is a tremendous change in society that will occur in the years to come. We are talking about a future project that will make it less likely that the number of people traveling in traffic will be near. So there are some factors that need to be considered in this discussion. Of course, I would have wanted to ask you why. A senator's words are further up, but time is up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u29	Mr. President. Yeah, the change in society is totally complete, and that's what we agree with. But they also indicate that young people choose a way of life exactly different from the way we are older and, while less traffic between work and home, young people will be more likely to choose this process. In fact, in the United States, by far, the mecca of the car industry itself has suddenly reduced the number of young people who choose to take the driving test. We know it here, too. Some have claimed that TV producers Friends and 6 and City and such lifestyle factors have done more for the cities and organization talks than all of us who have worked on architecture and organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u30	Mr. President. We'll discuss the partner to set up these transport projects, city lines, and all of that. I'm gonna go through the bill and the commissions and put a little bit of trouble in the powder. However, I would like to state first that the person standing here is not at all against public transportation. On the contrary, I think it is very important that we have good and efficient public transportation. But we must also teach people how to use them. In fact, that's what happened last night. The senator who now sits on the chair, we were discussing whether it should be free in the street or not, that he said it might be more interesting to go on the bus, he put it that way, it would have to be more cool and cool. I just agree with what. A senator with that. Surely, we should try to do the same, only change our thinking if people feel that using bus is something unsettling or uncool. It may work together to teach people how to use the bus by freeing it or making it interesting and interesting. We may not go deeper into it now, but I thought this was an interesting approach. A senator I hadn't thought of. But I think there's quite a point in this, that it's not cool enough to go to the bus. I want to know, and maybe there's ever been a survey, that I find it interesting to roll it up, because we want to try to combine the use of the private car and have proper public transportation, to encourage people to go on a environmental journey. If those using the private car increase faster than those using public transportation, as it seems to be in recent years, the question is, Can we increase the share of eco-friendly vehicles? I'd like to let me say it's better to watch the electric car. It would be exciting to know how many load their tweezers, both running on electricity and gasoline, but to be in charge of those 30 to 40 miles that they can do. I'm not sure that's everyone, obviously not everybody. It would be interesting to know how much is actually using the electricity. Of course, this is likely to change as you can drive farther on the charge before changing to fossil fuels. The test I've been wondering about is whether it would be possible to allow electrical vehicles or eco-friendly vehicles to use priority lanes. This would put them in first place in traffic, perhaps even in the first place. If so, more people would benefit from such automobiles. Then we are taking steps to work on the truly present climate problem, so it's also said here, but how we work on it is something we need to examine. He also sees only Spanish in all of this as a pattern of thinking so that the private car is actually forced into public transportation. I find it particularly strange when so many of its spokes are the same as saying that Iceland should be an open society, which, of course, is to be, and all welcome, we should not deny anyone to be here. Still, we plan to manipulate the way people travel, get between A and B, make sense of them. It's a bit of a special methodology, I think, a bit social, to say that now everyone should use bus or public transportation and away with the private car. What's the most desirable thing about this, though, is how the Independence Party has become some kind of drive in all of this, pushing people from private cars into public transportation, and making sense to people. That's a big deal. I don't know where the advance party is anymore, it doesn't seem to matter, and I don't spend any more words in it. The bill on authority to establish an official transport building partner in the capital area is nine articles. There must be a statement, as it is, that several factors may need to be explained a little more fully. The goals discussed in paragraph 2. are listed in four teams and in a team, by permission of the president: ▪ To promote legal, efficient, economic, and safe transport in the capital area with the same structure for all transport. This is a good, important sentence, the first sentence, the first joint listed as the purpose or purpose of the society. But somehow you fear that all transportation is not what the main motivations of these projects are to consider. Thus, special attention should be given to the fact that all transportation is guaranteed and subject to all of this. The B-party reports that the government's climate targets on sustainable, non-carbon-related urban society will be met. Maybe the president knows, and he can come in and tell us if we're just thinking about Reykjavík, that it's gonna be a non-carbon, self-sustaining community. I would have thought we were supposed to watch the whole country. It's a little special. Of course, we want to reach goals or at least reduce emissions and do what we can. I only caught up in a speech yesterday that our scientists work every day, even in a race with foreign people, to find solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I mentioned a project that Jón Hjaltalín Magnússon is working on as well as on the news, he's developing a new form of electrodes for an aluminium. If I recall correctly, these new electrodes will be able to reduce emissions from the countries by one third. There's no small cost if it succeeds. It's a hell of a jump if you make it. I don't know how to tell any more about it, but in some part of this, oxygen, which, of course, matters. It's just a project we're supposed to put into, not just this project but a project like this, encourage companies and individuals and our great scientists to work on such projects. Not necessarily just looking at the idea of trampling everyone in a bus with good or bad. The next team says that increasing traffic security, which is very good, should be promoted and that effective cooperation between countries and rural groups should be achieved. It is important that we try to make good use of the technology we have today, as shown in a few talks in another Senate case, regarding light control. I don't know how it works, but given what men have said, you should think you could be more effective there. Then comes Article 3. ... ofthefianceofthefiction. I'm not going to go over there, but it says to the D, by permission of a president: ▪ To follow up the development of rural development programmes. Of course, this is extremely important. If the overall objective of the network is to promote legal, efficient, efficient and safe transport in the capital area with the same structure for all transport, it is very important that it be made known that the rural communities are obliged to keep up. And I ask, what if they don't? Is there someone who can tell me? What if the situation arises that their communities do not live up to what they are supposed to do in their organizational plans and changes? Then, in fact, it shows up in E team 3. that the company should collect quick and traffic charges in the capital area, will be legally charged with paying such fees, and building up the infrastructure of such collections. There's a foreman here, and that's where they'll be paid. However, at the same time, it is assumed that 60 billion, to be included in these projects will be funded by charges, charges of use. In fact, it is stated that if he does not succeed, the government should arrange for the money to come in another way. But it seems that the first choice is to collect these charges. I wondered, " Is it based on paying off the projects to take place there? ' Then I also wondered, " How long will this social life be? ' It seems to me that at least you can read it out of this, I suppose he could be considerably longer. Then there is the role of the Roadmaker. In Comb 4. is referred to as part of the society's budget, and it says that the minister who handles the State's property should take the place of the State in the community. There is a secretary of finance, of course, according to this. However, it also shows that the split is equal to Article 4. 75%:25%, however, the owners are allowed to agree on another division of assets in the company. It may be normal for this to happen, but I think it would be ideal for the government to accept more responsibility in the project. For more information, please contact the branch office that serves your country or write to the address listed on page 5 of this magazine. 2 and 3, with President's permission: The majority of transport workers fall to the road structure and to the local community, depending on the species and nature of transport workers, and in accordance with road law, No. 80/2007.How can I help you? However, the mention of the greater part of the transport program that we have considered only shows up on page 6. 17, is it not clear at all how this division should be if we are talking about the same roads? This refers to the business, and the cost of exchange is discussed. I was wondering if there's a crash. This may not be the case, but at least, the law does not seem completely clear when it comes to a urban, rural, and cost - exchange of projects that will fit into the capital contract, which, of course, the partner builds on or happens because of him. I think there's a need to take a closer look, whether I'm mistaken or if there's something to explain. Six. The bill says, with President's permission: The U.S.A. and the United States 1st par. make a contract with one or more members as needed, in which the role of the network will be further determined by the construction of transport workers in the capital area. - So we're starting a society, and it's not clear what its role will be forever. --in a contract between parties should include... The financial structure of the company, the details of the implementation of individual projects, the possession of workers as well as their provision for the fragmentation of the society. I think it's very important to have any further ideas about these people, how they're treated. At the very least, there is considerable uncertainty about the Society and what the distribution of these important factors will be. Seven. magazine on the takeover and development of the land owned by the state. It says, by permission of the president: The EU shall agree with a special agreement with the Minister of the State, with the rights and responsibilities associated with it, as part of the government's contribution. The contract should include: determine the limit of the land and its delivery criteria for the company. As a result, it is very important to explain clearly how this land will be organized or at least to consider what the State might have to say about it. Then it goes on to 7. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ All benefits of the development and sale of the country shall flow uninvolved to the project on the construction of transport in the capital area. It says that the abduction of the sale of the country that the government is going to put into is going to run to the club. However, there is no comment on the benefits of selling property that local communities may gain from this project, saying that in some areas there will be subpasses, jumps, or any other area, and land. Some may have mixed feelings about it, some argue that these weights will not be worth much. Others feel that they will be important. I wondered, " Is it not normal to make a profit or a bath that will result from the sale of property while in progress? ' It seems that the government should just do it. I think the rurals have to do their part, too. Then there is a report of a license to borrow in Article 8. and it says that the company is permitted to borrow. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: Abduction is conditionally dependent on the borrowing of the state's funds, or the borrowing of the state's responsibilities. How important it is that we clearly explain the responsibility of the State on how this will be handled! It's strange to leave it behind. In the 9th. is said to be a dissociative of the union, a complete resolution, and so on, and then, by permission of the president, to the members of the club, and to all the property of the society arranged, to be taken into account. Is it a decision of the society how to take care of them? Is that on the contract? Is it normal for this to stand so open, that it's just a later problem how to treat the many assets that may become part of this group? I miss a little bit more than that, Mr. President. The mention of the larger portion, which I don't have time to review, is followed by a detailed review of the details of this case as well as the context of my section. I'll go over it later. I repeat, I have nothing against public transportation. On the other hand, I am very heavily affected by the fact that this matter goes through the council without revealing the responsibilities that the government fund is supposed to have, the final funding of the state's budget will be in this project. What's it gonna cost the government, the taxpayer of the country? The amount of money, the dozens or hundreds of billions, we don't necessarily know the number that will go on this project, but I hereby declare it, Mr. President, and hope that it will be clear here in the council, that this project will be planned. That's going to be over the schedule. I think it is very important that there is a prerequisite value. I don't think it's a chance to put it on the state fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u31	Mr. President. In this speech, I try to frame up how I will approach the important and huge issue that is open to the General to take sides, i.e. The establishment of an official participant to enforce the objective of the transport contract of the capital area, and by the procedure, the power of the contract and of the tasks involved in it to the community, thus breaking off the links of the Allied with the projects to the next 15 years. It is, of course, a massive operation and unorthodox in all places. I gave my first talk in the language yesterday, which was a little advising, but now, when it comes to being more specific, I'm going to start by going through history, because it really matters in this context. Then, on September 26, 2019, I plan to dissect a point in the transport contract itself that was signed. Next, I'm going to go through the bill, followed by the opinion of the greater section and the opinion of my share. It is also essential to identify the overall picture of the whole case, to review the 2011 transport stop contract, which is actually a root cause of the existing transport crisis - in order to use a word. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, who is sitting in the President's chair, whose yesterday's missayings were when he spoke of a transportation crisis or a traffic crisis. However, the agreement made in 2011 is the very basis for the transportation crisis that the capital area has been in for nearly a decade. It gets worse and gets worse, and it seems like it's the goal of having the situation as bad as there's any way of pressing on the apparent ransom line to make it possible to get on with basics in the capital area. So it is essential that this agreement be reviewed in the context of this. The next article will address the viewpoints that have been presented. The members of the Central Party and I have been asked a number of questions, and indications have been made to us in the discussion of a transport program that was completed yesterday. The discussion, of course, is closely related to this issue, though my partner on the environment and transport committee is still involved. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, makes it a point to discuss each matter in a very narrow and reserved manner and try to overlook any connection there. It's just what the daily number is called the samurai method, designed to achieve one point at a time and make it more acceptable to do so, by cutting off the real connection with what happens in other places on the basis of that change. There are a number of questions, but I'm going to make a special attempt to answer important questions. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, vice president of the Environment and Transport Committee, member of the Independence Party, answered my first speech yesterday. You see, questions are made that are of vital importance, and I will endeavor to answer them in a more precise way than could be possible in the short time offered by opposers. It was such a number of questions that happened. A senator tells me that I feel that it is only reasonable and reasonable to answer them properly and with the depth and accuracy they require. These are factors that have additionally been provided in discussions about transport programs that need to dive to the bottom. That's the box on how I'm going to approach this subject and the discussion about it. Last night in my speech, I asked for the case to go. The budget between the 2nd and 3rd. There are viewpoints that need to consider, including, additional discussions. a point to see if this form of ohf., public society, is reasonable in this context, whether the Society should not only work under the rules of ehf. or hf. by incident, i.e. by law on partnerships. Since then, there have been views that must be brought to earth, i.e. whether the approach to import these official projects into an enterprise in this way, an official partner, is supported by other laws, including: a law on the order of public projects and possibly more. These are things that were not discussed, as far as I know, in the Committee office and it's totally unacceptable that the case is done here in this field, if it makes it to the point where it will be finished, without the fact that this point is being led into the ground. This is not in itself a political point in this context. Rather, it involves our showing someone the will to ensure that the regulations concerning the transport contract meet the law. If the conclusion is to violate other laws by using this approach, there must be a different approach, but this does not in itself affect the objective of the case in terms of highly interested citizens of the city line. I don't think of this as a possible breakthrough in reducing the part of the matter facing a city line. Rather, I just want to emphasize that the matter is won, and so it's decided that there are laws and rules. Such doubts have developed, and according to my information, this was not examined specifically by the Committee, so it is essential that this should be discussed when discussing the case between 2 and 3. It's gonna be. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, chairman of the budget board, which controls whether a meeting may be held in the Committee before 2rd. I finish, which I think would be wise in many ways to lead this particular aspect on earth. If the conclusion remains that we are on thin ice with regard to other laws and their interaction, it may take some time to resolve the problem. I'd like to reiterate that this is absolutely necessary and away from all the other comments we had to consider. Then, at the same time, it is possible to continue talking about the issues we represent in the Central Party, as it were, to discuss the possible exiting of the city projects, the communication between the state funds and the rural society, and the organizational arrangements to be maintained. The whole situation and the work of the transport covenant will not be put into this partnership until the next 15 years, and a government and a management group will find themselves in the position of being fully vulnerable to the organizational authority of certain rural communities, though part of the covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u32	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the official transport development body in the capital area. It has to be said initially that, of course, the transport issues of the capital area are very positive. In Reykjavík, construction has been stopped for years, and its consequences are clearly seen in traffic knots and traffic jams. People who spend a long time in their cars in the morning and, of course, experience this in the afternoon. Hence, it is positively positive that there is a debate about what to do in these areas. Here is a major bill built on the basis of a government agreement and six rural communities in the capital area on the construction of transport wood signed in September 2019 and has been identified as a transport contract. Some 120 billion dollars are expected to be carried out. over a period of 15 years. As we further consider, it is estimated that the Kingdom will provide 45 billion dollars. and rural areas total: 15 billion. Then we're up to 60, Mr. President. There is also a special funding, so called, which is called speed and traffic costs. At that time, they will have 60 billion dollars. That's how you see the financing on it. In the opinion of the greater part of the legal committee, the agreed agreement also suggests that the cost of construction in the capital area at 52.2 billion dollars. Then it says that 49.6 billion francs. Runs a project on a city line, as said, 8.2 billion dollars. In walking and riding steps, walking skirmish and underpass, and 7.2 billion bars. in improved traffic control and special safety measures. This will depend on the induction of the digital traffic control in the capital area. Mr. President. Most of this is positive, and I especially want to agree with the founding pathways. I'd especially like to mention the Great Way, which is the great eel that connects the eastern and western parts of the city. Of course, it has to be clear and impossible, from the Athenians River and West to Mela Square, so that there is a way to get there without having to stop. Of course, this would be a big security issue and would be a great favor for transportation in this city. Then there's a very positive point that it shows not to spend money on hiking, hiking, walking, and subpassing. You will notice, for example. that it has not been possible to create a walkway or a tunnel for those who cross the Great Way to meet Kjarval locations. Only one roadway push a button is needed and dozens or hundreds of cars need to stop. Of course, the people have little advantage, but this results in a lot of waste, pollution, and harmful effects on the climate. Then I'd like to agree that there will be money on improved traffic control and special security measures. It is known that in many places, bright lights have arrived at the corners of the street. Of course it's a great advantage. It involves saving and positive. But this bill is about setting up an official community with regard to measures in this field. The list of projects to the central body of the company is clearly shaped by the focus of the greater part of the city in the area of Reykjavík in order to reflect the emphasis it has placed on a so - called city line. At the same time, the long - wait - waiting Dew seems completely turned aside. This may be the biggest case in regard to priorities and implementation in this regard. Then there are other issues in this section that have to say that they are very peculiar, and I hope I will cover as much of them in this speech. It is expected that the holdings of the community will be in the hands of one State Fund, with 75% of stakeholders at Community institutions, and the other 25% in the capital area. These rural communities are Gardensville, Hafnarfjörður, Kapovogstown, Mosfellstown, and Seltjannestown. It is then assumed that the owners of the company will make a multiparty agreement that will further address the administration of the Society and minor protection. Mr. President. It is a stock agreement, and it must be said that, of course, it is prominent that the bill is not at least following such agreements. It would have been much better to think of such attractions in terms of the subject. Six. The bill says that countries and rural communities deal with one or more society as needed, in which the role of the community will be further determined by the construction of transport workers in the capital area. It will only be said that there is some uncertainty about how this matter is started in this regard. True, it is true that in a contract, The financial structure of the company, the details of the implementation of individual projects, the possession of workers as well as their provision for the breakup of the company. But these things would have had to lie around, and now they're talking about the club. In the 3rd. The bill explained that among the tasks the partner should have, the funding of transport infrastructure is being maintained, and the implementation of this structure will be carried out by a comprehensive plan and risk management and will oversee the harmonization of projects and the assessment of priorities. These important factors should take place on the scene of this official community. Then, in d-d-dr-dr-dr. that members of the organisation follow up on the development of rural development programmes. Mr. President. This, of course, raises questions. The communities have a natural sense of self - custody and independence. What does it mean that an official partner should follow the development of community development plans? In what way should this be followed? What power is being entrusted to this organization in rural affairs? But this is not all thought, since the company is also expected to collect the so-called speed and traffic charges in the capital area. If it be legal for such fees to be paid, the company will collect them and build up the interiors of such collections. This is not all thought to be the case, for the Society is to oversee the development of a country that will be submitted to the company with the intention of achieving a down payment on its worth. This is one of the most expensive jewels in the Library of Reich Fund, the Netherlands, a total of 86 acres [86 ha]. I may have misread the size of a talk on another subject, hoping that it will be corrected. Then, too, the state has 31 millers. It's a total of 117 acres. In other words, it is expected to contribute to the Netherlands, and in the bill it is made up of 15 billion. The chapter on consultation says, with permission of the president: ▪ For example, the urgent need to contribute the bill to the Council was not consulted on the design of a bill in government consultation. Now that this confidential talk has recently arrived but has given us a good experience, it is an important stage for those who want to discuss subjects in preparation and introductions. How sad it must be that it has been evaluated and that there is no time for such consultation! Then it is appropriate to assume that there is a review of the Government's Accounting on the case where a government accountant would make his surveillance work with the Society have access to all relevant data. However, further notice points to the fact that there is no evidence in the bill that the information of the FBI's Committees. This, of course, is serious advice from Government Accounting. She further says in her opinion, with permission from the President: The Commission does not believe that the Agency does not consider material to be the key elements of the bill on the authority to set up public members for the projects in its preparation. It should be noted, however, that the importance of a planned strategy should be pointed out before implementing a thorough and transparent procedure. As today's, much of the so - called city line seems to be vague. This is exactly what I and the members of the Central Party have been discussing here at the Council and have given very special attention. It's a matter of reexamination. Following the phrase that many of the so - called city line seem uncertain, the Government Revision Review concludes by saying: Therefore, this comment is presented to justify the importance of planmaking. This won't be misunderstood, Mr. President. I allow me to understand it as if a Government Accounting calls for a better function than it really is. The bill therefore assumes that this government of the public body is in control while a special management group of owners is expected to be developed, as will be further applied to the stockholder's agreement. However, the bill does not have anything about this control group that is supposed to be legally and not in a shareholder agreement, but it says that it reviews policy issues related to the project and supports the release of controversies that may arise. This raises some questions. First of all, policy projects are involved. The question is, Should the management board not have policy makers and if the views differ between the conduct of the society and the control group on the other hand, what perspective will be placed on this issue? And then it is the expression: supports the solution of disagreements. It is unclear in what such support is needed to hide or in what way it is endeavored to create a channel to resolve differences that, of course, may arise a long way. It also says, by permission of the President: So be, for example. significant changes in plans for the transport contract or the purpose or role of the club are aimed at setting it up in the control group. This control group raises questions. Also there are questions about society's interaction with society. On one hand, it is reported that one of the members is following the development of rural development programmes. However, what says about communication with the Roadmaker. I'm sorry, I don't have time to review it in this talk, but I'll try to do it as I have occasion and time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u33	Mr. President. I'm going to add a few words to this bill on clearance to establish an official community due to the development of transport infrastructure in the capital area. The bill was laid out to fulfill the State's share in a covenant that was signed at the end of September of the last year, as well as six societies in the capital area, Reykjavíkurborg, Garverdur, Hafnarfjordur, Kópagur, Mosfellstown, and Seltjananes, made along to further the infrastructure. I'd like to call attention to a few things on this bill and maybe start with what's on my mind outside the city line, but that's the government's contribution in the agreement. The project is expected to be, i.e. The construction of transport workers in the area, which involves building tracks, cycle paths, footpaths, and then city lines, a total of 120 billion dollars. And what is the share of the State? It should be 45 billion. That leaves 75 billion. The share should be three times less, 15 billion, one third of the State's share. The State's share should be in the form of a budget of 30 billion and the rest should come for property sales. That's where I have comments on the government's contribution. The 15 billion are expected to come from evolution and sale in the Netherlands, which is the most valuable and likely most sought - after area of the capital area today. The government will put it into this society that will separate from state and community and, of course, will not cooperate with these agencies as we have known. It will organize and build on the land of Köldna, so it will reveal how valuable it will be when that organization is in place. It may be more expensive than it is now thought, but the Society receives the funding and is likely to have free hands on the exchange. I'm worried about the transition and I'm worried about the money that goes in there. Of course, it is in the society's hands how it will be replaced in time, whether it will be put in motion or in the city line, or something else. That'll be in the hands of the club. Of course, that's what worries me. The experience from public societies is such that it may be difficult for governments and owners to do so, especially if they are many, and even if it's just the State, to put something into such communities that have taken a certain course. There is no special guarantee, Mr. President, that the budget, which can vary, will take one action rather than any other. Looks like the guys on the bill are avoiding e.g. to mention a masquerading interface. They're not named. They're just building roots. It is as if they are afraid to mention them and to hesitate to mention the urgent improvements made by a building that violates the corners of the road. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u34	V.E.G. President. I hadn't come very far to review this bill, but in the meantime, I was reminded that this partner would have to be named, and I've even had to get some published ideas by name. One would like to mention the transport government, but on the side of the deck, it is shorter as the transportation sector or the transportationovate of the capital area. So I will support them with the title of this new kingdom until others are found and talked about the transportation unit or SSH for the transport sector. This title is very clear to the nature and purpose of this community or state and their objective, for it is, in fact, a socialistic policy followed by some of the east tents of the country in the past, a socialistic organization. In the past, it was the objective of the government, at least Many groups throughout the country, and especially in Reykjavík, to give people more freedom and a better standard of living, enable people to acquire, for example. their own car for their families, and they enjoy the freedom it holds, enabling people to have a home that is big enough for their families. The aim now is to reverse this trend and to introduce lack of policy on the part of the state and the rural society because both the so - called city line and the structure to which it is to be linked are now primarily building up small apartments without parking conditions. People who live there will be forced to make good use of their national transportation, and if they don't have enough money, if they get their hands on the parking lot somewhere near them, then traffic conditions will be tight, and they actually exist, by taking one lane in each direction of the city's major transportation opportunities, as outlined in a foreign counseling company report showing that there is, in fact, an increased use of public transportation. There's no shame in advertising consumer control. All of this works against the goals of at least For decades, the independent group was in charge of the city, and it is the irony of destiny that it is the Independence Party here at the Allied Council that reverses this policy in Reykjavík, which seems to be the future, and thus finances the campaign of the United States in this city. Chairman of the party, huh? paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, gave an interesting talk earlier and explained that those who felt that they had to use a private car, as he put it, or a family car, could buy a payer way by paying what is now called a quick price that was originally called remuneration. Here we see another example of the true consequences of socialism. In the end, it bites those who have less than one hand, moving most if not all of it down, but it takes no less on those who have least money. With the new arrangement, those who can afford it may drive faster than others can pay. In recent decades, even 80 years of age, evolution is being developed and reassigned. We had come to the point where most of us could afford a car. Today, most people are no longer to be able to afford such things. No, now only those who can afford to pay all the new fees that are being paid and that are being invented have the right to do so. [[The president calls.]] This is a description of the true consequences of socialism. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. Would you be so kind as to put me back on the rosary?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u35	Mr. President. I'm going to go back to my final talk that I couldn't do it through. I've been going over the bill as it happens. Two. It speaks of the purpose and objective of the community, this public community that is to establish with rural society in the capital area and a government fund with 75% of the estate and 25% of its rural society. The main objective of the network is to promote legal, efficient, efficient, and safe transport in the capital area as well as the building of all transport methods. It is then referred to as promoting government climate goals. I've gone over these teams a little bit, and then there's one team that says that the extra traffic will be increased. I must now say that I feel that I have needed some support for how a city line should promote increased traffic security. It is claimed that the urban line should reduce traffic accidents, but it is not mentioned how it should happen. Just one small example that can be mentioned in this context, but there are e.g. Seat belt. Now, I think in these cars, it's usually just the bus driver who's wearing his seat belt and the passengers are naturally free and on the bus at the time of stress, etc. I can't see that this is the way it is being said here, and it's perhaps part of this that they're trying to increase their efficiency by allowing passengers to stand up. But there's been a serious accident because people don't wear safety belts on buses, so I don't think it's the norm, as the bill does. But the passengers in private cars are always excited about safety belts. We know that. It's just the way it is, and I don't see quickly that it's safer to travel with a city line than with a car. I can't quite tell, Mr. President. I've only studied these points regarding the purpose and objective of the company. In the 3rd. The bill will discuss the roles and tasks of the company, and according to the E team, the role of the company is to collect quick and traffic charges in the capital area. Here, it's just a change of policy, it's supposed to collect roads, traffic costs, and it's a natural tax recovery for the capital population in particular. I think that's clear, and of course, I need a very thorough discussion. I think, for example. Because of forced people to leave their private cars and to go on this transport, all the plans for a road price have been severely criticized by the U.S. car owners. It is time for this to be financed, and it is to be done with these high - speed costs and traffic costs. Here's a point that just needs a very thorough view. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson specifically mentioned this in his talk. This would also be inconsistent because in this cooperation project on road projects called PPP, this project was not originally expected. Since this means that there has been an extreme criticism of the way it is being done, it has become inconsistencies, as has been shown in the discussion, and it will also be decided by the law to impose such charges, says here. [[The president calls.]] This is something that's completely unexplored, Mr. President. I see time has passed and wait for it to begin. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u36	V.E.G. President. Given the scope and scope of this issue, the source bill for establishing the official transport development community in the capital sector is absolutely remarkable that no more should be discussed in the discussion. We're talking about a minimum of tens of billions, possibly 100 billion commitments to a trust fund, and it's as if it's not a concern for members of Congress. It's like this is an uncomfortable situation, for example. to the board of directors, which is to be mentioned only. That's why, Mr. President, it's very important that we try to ask all the questions and speculations and all the warnings that we need to address on such issues. I wondered, " What is the final commitment to the state budget of this situation? ' I also wondered how the performers or supporters of this matter would frame that commitment cannot go on indefinitely. I can't see, either in this matter or in anyone else, that it's done. Nor can I see how the government would give away property that is worth billions of dollars without the government's having something to say or to take advantage of any of these possessions. You ask yourself, " Why? ' It is as if, more respected president, the country's unions are expected to profit, e.g. In fact, sales of property or valuables that may be induced by this city line may still exist, although many people believe that if of this great phenomenon, it will be devoid of property. But the government is somehow to be left behind, unless it's possible to share the profits of selling the land that the state has today, with this partner. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children have a minor opinion in a budget on this matter. It does much of the speculations and warnings and questions we have. The uncertainty about the project is very well discussed. There have been many complaints that there are certain legal laws that are uncertain, unsure of interpretation of laws and such. There have been times when we have received back laws that we have agreed to, and it has been necessary to correct them because the expression was not enough or was clearly understood. That's what I think about the bills and Congress decrees and the other aspects of this agreement, that's a stick. Perhaps it is just a matter of having it that way so as to be able to interpret things later. I'd like to take a little action on the Committee's opinion of my section of the budget, with the permission of a president: There is strong uncertainty about planning, implementation, business, and funding for the part of the agreement that turns to the city line. As a result, it is inconceivable that tens of billions of dollars are spent in that part of the project. There is still no management plan. You would have felt that those who care about the financial resources of the taxpayers should try to answer these questions, to keep the answers clear about the organization, implementation, business, and funding of this city line project. It's a huge project if you're going to do it the way you suggested it, a huge project of up to tens of billions. It is assumed that in the end, the Kingdom will take up all these transport projects in this covenant of 105-115 billion. The city line alone appears to be at least 50 billion. This project will be conducted. It is irresponsible not to assume how to handle them. I reiterate, Mr. President, and I did so at my first speech on this matter, that this project will be over. It is of utmost importance to us, who are confident that it will be recorded in the General Documents. Then, by permission of the president, it says: The bill shows that a social agreement must be made. In such an agreement, there is a fundamental debt between parties that clearly sheds light on how one will work together and deal with differences in case of a problem. Where there is a union that will live at least In fact, three to four governments are not exactly aware of how long it will live, possibly longer -- and a number of local and rural governments can be expected to have differences. Therefore, it is important that this agreement be agreed before the establishment of the Society. Hv. A senator would rightly point out that the end is beginning wrong. It is a society that is being formed before the actual agreement is actually to be made on how things should be handled, differences, and so forth. It would have been an option to finish it sooner. Then, it refers to a control group that has a function. Hv. A senator also does well to oversee the budget, which, of course, is important. So he says on page 18. 2, with President's permission: It's a 6th paragraph. The bill assumes that the completed transport activities will be set aside to the State or to the local community. The bill does not tell us how to deal with the events when the structure of transport is more expensive or inexpensive than the value of the individual's property. A major goal is not to deal with the external costs of projects, to which they fall. I agree with what. A senator with this and is part of what I mentioned earlier in this talk. There's a lot of uncertainty about things that are extremely important. What is the arrangement for these workers, and how should the forward drive be used? How should this cost be handled? You need to realize that the funds that will be involved in this project, whether from a government fund or with some kind of fees that people have on - which is, in fact, absolutely not able to get involved or agree on, that it should be used for the other portion, 60 billion that should be financed in this way - they do nothing else, on other projects. They have no other means of transportation. The 50 billion to travel to the city line do not have to reduce the number of single bridges or build up other means of transportation in the capital area. When it is possible for the state to commit tens of billions of dollars into forward vehicles, they also go to no other government business, whether it is necessary to build a nursing home or to improve the interests of lost ones. This money will not be used repeatedly. Therefore, it is a great responsibility to intend to create an agreement, establish laws, and accept such things without completely realizing how it ends, or there is a limit to the contribution of the State on this project. It is clear that it is necessary to draw to the surface why politicians of the Council do not want such warnings to be made clear. It must be said who oppose the fact that the final number of the state's funds is in due time. Of course, the same ones must take responsibility for this and must answer us where they will take the money that the pay will cost. Are they willing to reduce their donations to other projects? Because it is absolutely crystal clear, Mr. President, that this project will be much more expensive than it is anticipated. I call for men to come up here and tell them why they don't want these warnings harder and clearer than they are today because they're the ones who have to answer for it when the drive comes to reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u37	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the official transport development body in the capital area. There is no disagreement that transport projects in the capital area have lingered for far too long. This part of the country, where most people live and are very sorry, has done very little in transport. I have given many talks on transport, as a regional senator, and have often referred to the delay in transport activities in the country. However, when I realized that nothing had been done in the capital area for a long time, I do not say that I was a poor person in the region, but I saw that, based on the population, things were really worse in the capital area than in the country. Therefore, we rejoice that there is going to be a great deal of effort and transportation here, not enough. However, the city line will come as if it were throwing into this case and somehow indiscriminately. What I wanted to talk about in my speech is this bill and commission and some comments about it. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who was before me, crossed the committee's opinion of the less part of the legal committee than that of the year. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson children are subject to a committee party. I would like to quote the outset of what I actually started with, with the permission of a president: A mitigation committee welcomes the emphasis presented in this bill on the construction of transport workers in the capital area. The smaller parts are particularly welcome to the modern development of the light management system of the capital area, to deal with construction of tracks, the estimated structure of cycle path and other eco-friendly species of transport. The smaller portion, however, cannot agree with city structure plans. There is a great uncertainty regarding planning, implementation, business, and funding for the part of the agreement facing the city line. As a result, it is inconceivable that tens of billions of dollars are spent in that part of the project. There is still no management plan. This tells me that an agreement was reached only because a city line was inserted into the transport contract. Otherwise, the city of Reykjavík would not have signed. The pace is such that it has not been unsettled for those who are absolutely necessary to take any form of action, I do not speak of this large project running at tens of billions of dollars. It is quite remarkable and very irresponsible that a strategy should not be placed in such a big matter as this. I was reminded of a good company of friends when we were going over these things, that when I was a young boy, and of course I enjoyed playing I found a lock, and there was a key in the lock. I thought it was a good idea to build a cabin. So I began to gather materials for the cabin, spit, nails, hammers, and saws. I was able to build it for a long time so that I could lock it with the lock. The plan was that I had found this lock. I went on the job without a master plan. In other words, it may be a bit naive to go on. As we have seen, democracy has been praying. We've seen it in other Ohf companies like Istavia, State Radio, etc. I myself remember that when I sat on a budget committee as a deputy body member, there was a struggle on the budget to get all that was involved in the Commission meeting because the accounting laws on such a society can be kept between years of data that doesn't need to be shown until later. Thus, elected representatives may not have the perspective they need for democracy. This came into my mind because of this "objection." It has also been presented in human speeches here as to what the union and its government are actually taking on great authority, a kind of offerer authority over local governments involved in this matter. If the dark language that I have listed was to enter this covenant, it would have been necessary to take them to the ground before going into the covenant so that they could be interpreted for him. Other than that, this city - based thought is incredibly insane. It is in all places extremely brutal and unworked and done in a time-gown, in my opinion, as urgent as it is in all the ways to take on these projects, foundation road, etc. But I just want to grab two envelopes. The ASI review says, with the permission of a president: Interestingly, the program is chosen to set up an official branch society that oversees different tasks, that is building infrastructure, the development of Köldnaland, and the potential collection of shortcuts. ASI considers lack of evidence to support the establishment of an official community around these projects. It does not show how to interact with the road structure or why the project is not financed by public donations, rather than by detriment and development of property. Here comes another fault that nothing has been done about it has been done so that it can be placed on a table for the public. So here comes a review from a State Accounting, so I'll only witness to it: There would be no basis for the information of the association's members on the basis of their surveillance work, and it is assumed that the minister of state property will be involved in the state of the Union, as stated at 2 mgr. Section 4. The bill. It is then stated that the law on official social values for the Society is not otherwise stated. It's from Government Accounting. These two comments cannot be said that these two parties, the National Reunion and the National Association of Iceland, cried out and shouted for what was done, no matter what they did. Because I spoke of the urgent need to set footways, I would like to recite lyrics that I have, in fact, used before a good reference is never too often said: There's a lot of options in swimming. It shortens the way from towns, such as Aranesp and Borgnes to Reykjavík. She's got security to do. We know in this country that there are things that can happen, and one way of escape is not just unwise; it is just pure and direct failure. In this regard, many have been discussed how the track out of Reykjavík to the west has been made with all the telephone calls in Mosfellstown, which is the case. One of the main advantages of the Sunway is to develop a link with Gingdanes, which is 390 acres [390 ha], 3 times higher than the country of Köldnaland, which is large in the discussion and in association with a union of poor health to establish the structure of transport trees in the capital area. Respect of Köldnaland today may be close to 15 billion. Yet, respect for it can be extended in another way. This is done by reducing the availability of land surfaces, which may not have to be done, since today's supply is small. In today's capital area, it may be estimated that the cost of heat, pricing, and other expenditures of 100 m2 are in the range of 8◯10 million. This means that an apartment price is 201⁄225% higher than it would have to be if enough property was served. Then who's going to pay for it? Of course, property owners and tenants pay. Everyone knows rent prices come with real estate prices, so it's the public who pays the bill. In addition to the public's spending money on housing, he will have to pay for the future building of a city line and its business. The question is, Will the phenomenon be used? Several studies have been conducted during travel, and one of the bus trips was measured, showing that in 2002 there were 9% of those who took bus to school. In 2019 the ratio was 7%. This may have some explanations, but one of them may be more telecommunications. I don't know if any patients who have to go to the Land Hospital will be going there with a city line. What evidence is there that the city's fantasies of the city's city of Reykjavík are in the form of reports of cities of a similar size to that of Reykjavík and that of some? All these cities have a light system. These systems range from some 1,464 miles [12:14 km], while the city line of Dagur B.. The son of Eggertsson is to be 57 miles [57 km]. How much it costs in the end nobody knows, not even Dagur. The city line in Helsinki is sometimes mentioned, but perhaps too seldom, that system of modern trams is widely used. Since the city line is used most of the city's middle zone, there is no tight traffic limit. She's on her right to exist, and there's nowhere to go, and people have a choice. The area in which construction is the largest is large enough space under the system, probably 30 m wide, and enough space for cars to travel. As the media closes up, the system syncs with roadways. But this is the beginning of the wrong end. First, a city line should be crammed into an area where there is no room for it. It is meant that other traffic should take its place. In the suburbs, urban areas can be reached. Here, you may need to take action, such as parking a Grand Way. The amount of time it takes has not been calculated, much less any remaining amount when digging in that area is to be started. During the period of construction under narrow conditions, the existence of thousands of people living in the area will change. There is a lot of interference, traffic, and pollution. It has a profound impact on the health and quality of life of those in the middle zone. Reykjavík is in the north, especially at 64th. There's no relevant exit through the city line here. Icelandic winters have recently been bearable in the capital area, but they can have bad years. But only to the neighboring communities of Reykjavík. They have expressed their support. I'm sure it'll be complicated in Kópavogi. Everyone knows the organization of the street there. They must bring something amazing about the process. The parklike town is naturally followed. The city line will pass through there without any significant impact on the town and will gain the benefits if they do. What, though, about Hafnarfjörður? Everyone realizes that traffic there is too much and needs to be solved. But it's not a city line. Lights must be controlled better, possibly double roads, since much of the traffic is through the South American Hafnarfjörður car. This was part of a talk I gave in a different language, where we spoke up. But finally, the highest. Mr President, I'd like to make a decision that the establishment of this company and this agreement is basically very good. [[The president calls.]] But that the strategy has not been established, and the cost of a city line of 50 billion, which could be multiplied by pi as it is anywhere, is totally unacceptable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u38	V.E.G. President. I ran into a final report for BS degrees in economics, which is called the national economic economics of a city line, and is a cost-and-exploitation analysis. It's quite good because there's a lot there. It weighed the costs and potential benefits of a city line, and its results are striking, and I'll go over them below. I'm going to start by grab into what I first noticed, with President's permission: ▪ When all the costs and benefits are combined and reviewed, the results of the cost-and-renewing analysis are that in most of the predictions made there is considerable national cost. In both situations where this is not the case, it is expected that the operating cost of the car will be included in the evaluation and the share of public transport will be either 7% or 9%. These occurrences depend on both the growing share of public transport. It is proper to say that on a giant project, there are a number of costs that are usually not included, e.g. costs due to the discomfort of those living near construction sites. The population of large areas is being delayed, but they are, of course, affecting people's existence, and it may be difficult for people to get out of their homes simply, and they need to be valued for money. We all know that time is precious and important, and it should be calculated into this equation too. It's not often rolled up. At the planned roadside, thousands live, and as a result, discomfort can have serious consequences. It's just that I can think of someone who gets sick, who gets sick, who doesn't have to worry about it, and that there's an open way to escape, so to speak. There are many who receive various forms of home service, so there are many underlying factors. As I say, it's not long since society changed in a flash. Suddenly, people were working at home, even at different times. It may be quite clear that in the future it will continue to some extent. That is even the arrangement that we could take into this equation when we claim that there are many types of actions that can be taken before these amount of billions of dollars, e.g. to further encourage companies to work at home. Another factor that could be done is having a flexible work schedule, a whole workplace may decide to start a day's work at other times, even at seven o'clock in the morning. When people live at three o'clock in the day, certain good things may include them. We also have a requirement for work time to be shortened, and this will affect travel habits. Not necessarily during hours of the day, people can gather all the rest of their vacations and even choose to work only four or five days a week and work them longer to save themselves a day. There are all sorts of ideas that can be used, and as I did not get tired of believing that a test project can be carried out on a bus one way down to a town at a certain time in the morning and then have a certain amount of free later. This would be of benefit to students and the largest working position in the city of Reykjavík. Quality of life, as well as time, must be included when considering the factors that are relevant when choosing a journey. During the discussion on the city line and all its activities, it is not an option but a mere pressure on people to give up and give in rather than actually catalysing people to make real benefits by traveling by public transportation. I don't think we've cleared that box, if I can put it that way. Not all roads that you can go to get more people to use the bus have been used. The sort of social changes we put in a rapid turn in the Covid world epidemic have not been included in the discussion. In addition, when discussing climate goals, it can be said that technological advances have not been included in this discussion. There are more roads than electric buses. Technology progress will likely become environmentally environmental, e.g. New cars. Traveling in a small electric vehicle is likely environmentally friendly, but it is driving on a large bus, even when both are powered by electricity. Lately, I have seen an increase in electric cars, especially in the capital area, and it would be nice to sum up how many cars are now powered by electricity and whether it's all bad if we look at climate goals. I'm just going to go back to the BS with the President's permission: ▪ All the cases that are not expected to meet the cost of automobiles, that is, the advantage of using a private car equal to its costs, have high national costs. It would be interesting, though, to see an assessment of the actual cost or benefits of traveling with a private car. That's what I'm talking about. It's not necessarily the car itself that matters, if we're considering the benefits of using a private car, it's the kind of car that matters. It is clear that the loss of the city line is causing, and it is a question of whether the capital area has that cost or is being taken into the pocket of a government fund. Then it is the people of the whole country who pay for it. That's what I'm saying here, in a few hours, I don't think it's a good priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u39	Mr. President. I was discussing this new state of the state, the transportationovat of the capital area, and explaining why this company will work primarily for a socilic approach. I traced it to the way it was intended to achieve management and work back - if work is the right wording - the progress that has been achieved in recent decades in increasing the freedom of people, families, to travel and improve their terms. In the past, most families had to get on their way in a way that was different, but with more prosperity, more and more people have been able to get a car, possess enough apartment for their families, and enjoy a better life span in general. You would understand this idea if it had been proposed in the German Democratic Republic of 1960. There, in fact, things approached in a very similar way. People were not expected to be wandering around in private cars. True, the East-Nationes produced cars known as Trabant and Wartburg, and were well escaped if they had to wait only five years after a car. However, large funds were placed on extensive public transportation. Sports and subways, of course, were in Berlin, twice the bus system that is now being set up here, and bus routes. Despite this, there was always a great pursuit, far beyond what the State wanted, after obtaining a car for the family, and although Trabant was not a very good car in every way and small, most people's dream was to get a car and enjoy the freedom it brought. That doesn't change the fact that no one's ever going to think it's right to have a car. I've traced it in a talk, in fact, to another matter, that when I lived in foreign cities, I had no car, and I never missed it, could go any less march or train or buses than it was because there were cities that had been built in the Middle Ages and that were completely different from the capital area in Iceland. It is expected that there will still be much more that wants to take advantage of a family car, but it is of course that needs to be met by effective, practical, and efficient public transportation. But then we come to just one of the big problems. This route is not designed to improve public transport, since for all the money expected to enter the city line, it would be possible to offer much better benefits to those who want to use or need public transportation. Instead, a double bus system that expects people to go to the neighborhood car first causes them to return to the city line, take the city line to the next location, and even move on to the final destination. Rather than simply driving here an efficient, good, modern - day bus system, these ideas come into the linear thinking that, as noted by men, is actually such a 19th - century thought from the time of the trolleys when they were installed in the old cities of Europe. Here we have this socialistic approach to achieve maximum profits for everyone, for those who had a dream of going on their own cars and for the others who want to take advantage of public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u40	Mr. President. The biggest problem I ever wanted to address is two. On the one hand, the situation is set up on the wrong priorities in which a city line called, which no one knows exactly what is, and no hand on a fastener, is taken over a waterway that is necessary, required to pay for traffic, ensure safety, and connect Kjalarnes better with the capital. This wrong priorities are rooted in and influenced, evidently by some sense, some eccentric wisdom, and even a paradox on the part of the city's mayor of Reykjavík. It is a big responsibility that those responsible for government money lend a favor to the intention of enforcing less than 50 billion, the figure in the Senate documents is 49.6 billion, and it is also to offer up a price for it. The report with the bill says that it is considered that the State finances the project with special donations for selling property. In particular, it is possible that the state of the budget, as it is said, this section of building with special donations for property sales, e.g. has sold it to Iceland Bank. Twice this is taken up in the report. At one location, Iceland Bank is exactly mentioned, the other is the subject in general. It is going to cost much to this city line that seems to serve 4% of its inhabitants, with plans to increase them. Remember, Mr President, this has been going on for years with a billion productions every year to increase the share of public transport that is good and valid for itself, but the lot of its users has not changed. We've reached the other big problem, the consumer management this is. The taxation is to be carried out, and these taxes get texture names, names, speeds, and traffic costs. Of course, this is nothing more than taxation on the capital population, and what is to be returned? Yes, this taxation, over the 15 years of the case, is expected to be 60 billion who will be replaced by the people and what will replace them? After paying with their taxes 50 billion dollars on the project and another 60 billion in taxes, it is to be seen behind the most valuable area of the capital, and perhaps even more so. a sort of pearl in the government property library, which is the Land of Christmas. And what's it paying for? For the good of looking up at the decrease in lanes for the family car because they have to take lanes for these giant automobiles, two more interconnected buses as we know, and this is supposed to rattle all over the city and take over on roads that are now serving the family car and the people who are paying for it. There's the big problems in this. Then there are, of course, very peculiar things in the bill, e.g. for communications between the government of the community and the community. One of the Society's activities is expected to follow up, as it is said, that rural society is working on the necessary change in strategy. What is that supposed to mean? It should also be a very peculiar relationship with the Vega type. The road is an agency that is supported by the transport minister and the Department of Transport, and there is a slight embarrassing text in the report, 2 mg. Section 3. it shows that the Society is authorized to negotiate with the Vega Convention on the design and implementation of tasks within the partner enterprise. So says the president's permission: Since a large part of the project is formally responsible for road construction, it is decided that the organisation will make such an agreement with the Agency on the implementation of individual projects. Therefore, it is important that the company oversee and oversee the development of transport workers in the Road program... The road is an institution, Madam President, under the Minister who operates in the power of a democratic voter. But now it seems that the road is due to be controlled by this government of the management and management of the development of transport workers in Vega, as well as the organisation to take care of planning and risk management for the whole project. The nature of the order of things is very unclear. The report further states that considering the design of the road, individual projects are being developed in consultation with the local community on the basis of a contract made with the company. The Society is still responsible for its entire building work in harmony with its role. And, by permission of the President, we say: It would also be possible, if it is considered practical for the development of the building process, that rural society will be assigned to care for the specific aspects of projects that are taking place within the country's limits. Are they being removed and placed under the authority of this society by their own custody? It is reasonable to ask, because it also says, by permission of the president: It is assumed that the Convention of the Association with the Vega will be part of a certain rural society of individual tasks defined. In this way, it is particularly considered that individual rural areas keep their control of the specific factors of implementation, e.g. in the setting of foot-and-wheel footpaths. It must be explained much better than is being done in this bill on which structure and structure are to be established in this structure of transport. Then, as I could in the memory of the previous speech, it is somewhat peculiar that it is as if the company's administration is removed, in certain cases at least, since it is assumed for a special control group of owners, and more carefully to transfer it to a shareholder agreement that has not been seen with a trace or tied off and would have been better handled, Madam President, that it would be expected, at least Subtracted. The management team should also review policy cases, i.e. have policy-making, and as I mentioned in the memory of a previous talk on the cruise team to provide support for the resolution of differences. Mrs. President, what kind of code is this? Why is this text not in English so that people can understand what this control group should do and what its scope is? There are other concerns in this matter, Madam President, so please ask that I be registered again on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u41	Madam President. I'm gonna go over 6. The bill on construction contracts. It says, by permission of the president: The U.S.A. and the United States 1st par. establish a contract with one or more members as needed, in which the role of the network will be further determined by the construction of transport workers in the capital area. In the agreement between parties, the two parties should include: The financial structure of the company, the details of the implementation of individual projects, the possession of workers as well as their provision for the fragmentation of the society. Madam President. There's a lot of publicity here. Here it is, my judgment is not careful enough. This arrangement is far too vague, referring to the possession of workers as well as their provision for the breakup of the society. Then you ask yourself, " Where will the prices be when the company is cut off, and in what way will this be attributed to owners? ' There's nothing here to say. Will it be at expense or at dinner? That must be in order, Madam President. It is necessary to make adjustments in this requirement if this is to be done. Of course, these responsibilities are to be given at the expense of the total, that is, self - determination. But it's missing in here. It is also necessary to ask about external expenses. How to Deal With It That doesn't say anything about it either. It is naturally unacceptable if an agreement is made that means making such a large financial commitment that it is not clear how society will be broken. When it is severed, property is valuable, and it is assumed to move to the relevant rural areas where the function is active, but it does not know what will happen. Here, it would have been necessary to promote that all costs over cost schedules are paid off by the owners of a government fund. It's just simple. It must be ensured that government funds do not pay all the extra expenses. To be honest, Madam President, I am very surprised not to have been made into the stitches on it. I'll only make it to 7th. Its signature is: takeover and development of a country owned by the State. It says, by permission of the president: The EU shall agree with a special agreement with the Minister of the State, with the rights and responsibilities associated with it, as part of the government's contribution. The contract should include: determine the limit of the land and its delivery criteria for the company. Here is the reputation: How are they conditioned when it is due to be delivered? What about the monuments that are already there? They must probably be moved. There's quite a piece of work on the government's behalf. The research site is there with all its monuments and the good work there. There is nothing to be said about who should pay the cost of transporting these activities, the workers, and all that is involved. I need to get into more of this in the next talk. I see that time has passed and I'm asked by the President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u42	Madam President. I'm going to go down to the Committee opinion of more of the budget committee with this bill. I studied the bill articles earlier today, and I want to start with the financing. It reveals a total of 120 billion dollars. financing over the 15-year period of the company's work. It is assumed that the government's direct contributions according to transport programmes should be 2 billion. 15 years. Besides, it's according to the country's being inserted into it. Then, as everyone knows, special funding is being made up to 60 billion on this part of the State. What bothers me is that in the opinion of more part of the environment and transport committee on the transport process, it is called for an explanation of road law, i.e. how urban construction costs are explained, that is, uncertain. I wondered, " Is there a connection between the inexplicability and what is presented on page 18? ' 2 and 3 for the greater percentage on road law, No. 80/007, at least I've called for here that it is clear whether the same law is involved, whether it is the same as the meaning behind this sentence in this committee study of the transport program, as follows, by permission of the President: The majority of transport workers fall to the road structure and to the local community, depending on the species and nature of transport workers, and in accordance with road law, No. 80/2007.How can I help you? Then the question is, Who is this division referred to in the transport program and the committee's opinion, whether it is clear enough, and whether we are talking about the same laws and interpretations? I want someone to come back and explain it to me. Then, with permission from the President, we will discuss the priorities of the project: ▪ The more part points out that the enterprise is designed to play a key role in the construction of transport in the capital area, but the nature of the case has not ended the agreement on priorities and funding. The rural areas in the capital area have had a different view of transport solutions, but society is supposed to negotiate solutions and make agreements of various kinds, such as the road modalities and the development of the state's land with Kenldur in order to achieve its worth. In other words, the Society is supposed to become some kind of reconciliation between the local community in the capital area so that the project can be continued or maintained. I think it's a little special that these rural communities haven't been able to get together on these things and that they need some special server to do that. Then we will discuss the arrival of the General Assembly and the supervision of the legal committee. It says, by permission of the president: By moving transport into public partnerships, the General Assembly does not have the same approach as it would be for traditional projects in the management of the road generation and financed in a transport program. This is correct, and in a sense, it is a measure of concern, when it comes to making such a distance from the General Assembly. This has not necessarily been a good experience with civil society, whether it is VOLV or others. The government is, in fact, responsible and cost but has little or no perspective or control over those associates. More is included in these teams on the arrival of the General Assembly and the supervision of the legal committee that I intend to discuss afterwards, including discussed how the Senate's location should be guaranteed by means of budget. We need to explain more than we're made aware of. And then there's the payout and the 60 billion, and I'll come in on it later. I wish to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u43	V.E.G. President. In my speech earlier, I quoted reviews, but I was reluctant to mention a point of a review from a Kingdom Ministry, a message that I find very important to me. It says, by permission of the president: The Commission does not believe that the Agency does not consider material to be the key elements of the bill on the authority to set up public members for the projects in its preparation. It should be noted, however, that the importance of a planned strategy should be pointed out before implementing a thorough and transparent procedure. As today's, much of the so - called city line seems to be vague. So this comment is presented to justify the importance of planmaking. At the end of the discussion, it is a key factor in how important it is, naturally obvious, that a good plan exists when such elaborate projects are used and that they are as predictable as possible how things should develop. You must be amazed that it comes from a government accountant's inspection and is incorporated into this matter. The review appears on May 27, and nothing has happened since then. As I said before, and others have said, it takes a lot more time to achieve such a plan. It's just thrown in there to land this agreement. Such a course is extremely irresponsible. I just want to mention the factor that has been very busy for discussion, i.e. The use of buses and public transportation. It is clear that city authorities have been moving toward their private cars, slowing down traffic, and trying to get people on buses. Often, people who even use no bus themselves are talking about it the most. But that's a different story. Since weather conditions in Iceland are often difficult to travel between areas. It's only easier to get into the car and drive to the destination than to walk out at the bus stop and wait for the bus, then wait for the next bus, and plan to get around, even though it's quite possible. When people work against using their private car, or actually talking the private car down, I feel frustrated because people are supposed to have a choice. In fact, it has been said that the personal car has such a short history and that it is an invention that will come to an end and that we will take advantage of other means. It may well be. We've got self-driving cars now, even though they're not in Iceland. However, they exist, are developing, and come into work in some places. They need space. So the future is not that everyone can go to bus. The city line, as I understand it, will be so too, that it's just starting out. Those who come from the suburbs will have to take the bus from there to stop to wait for a wagon going to the city line, etc. I can't imagine it coming to lower people's interest in using the private car, unless it's less. I had written down some notes I was going to discuss, but actually I forgot them on my desk. I will do so in the next talk that I am interested in moving here later. But then I handed out what I had mentioned at the last talk, this city line of events is totally incomplete in the task of forming this society. The premise of a deal was having a city line inside it. We're talking about the estimated 50 billion dollars in cost, an unexploited plan, and most of those who have criticized the case say that these 50 billion are much lower than the cost of becoming. I said exactly at the end of my talk earlier that people had talked about how he could multiply by pi, which said 50 times 3.14, etc. Then we're talking about 200 billion at a time when money comes out of the treasure. The situation in society is difficult to deal with because of the cost of the Covid epidemic, which is hundreds of billions of dollars and hard to see how this is going to work. In turn, when the business is placed in the arms of the other members of the community, they will no doubt have a lattice. So it doesn't work out, it's just very clear in my mind. As happy as I am with these rural communities' agreement on local founding roads, that big effort is being made, this part is totally out of the cow. You can't have so much back to the wall, especially in such big decisions, that they'll accept something into the matter that really destroys it. It's incorrigible. There has to be a lot more time. Since the project has been stopped since 2011, if this blessed city line of work is to remain on the table, more time is now being spent to reflect on it, and further development. - V.I.E.L.L.I.E.L.D. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u44	V.E.G. President. I was going to go through the Committee's opinion of my section of the budget board, but in the meantime, I ran a story on RUS's web about that only the shopaholics can buy electric cars. The Executive Director says this, and I find this quite remarkable because the manager feels that energy exchange is too slow and suggests that there will be an increase in spells on fuel and diesel trucks. It's not enough to hit electric cars, it's in the story, with the permission of a president: We need to make sure that we are really reducing the import of gasoline and diesel cars that are not expected to be done during this period, and we also need to make a deposit, which is said to increase the tax on gasoline and diesel. I feel terrible that those who are more wealthy can buy their electric cars and the others then known as chemical memory should travel to the city line. The population is being transformed into a gap. I ask, at whose expense? Those who drive in electric cars, which I don't mind, you see, get free parking. They may not have to pay through the street side when they surface. On the other hand, those who drive around in gas and diesel cars pay for parking. I'm sure they have to pay their dues in the toll gates. The catchiers can afford to buy electric cars while making earners forced to use public transportation. That's the fact. Another thing I'd like to mention is that the other day we were doing this about setting up places for loading at a house. I strongly opposed the methodology that was introduced there because, if we put it together, we could ask him to set up a small - incomeed apartment in a block to ask that others in the block pay him for loading equipment. This may cost up to one and a half million. I pointed out that the route you take to Reykjavík is not often that you can speak well of in Reykjavík, that there is a fund that people can apply for strength to set up a loading station on a house and that you are applying for that fund. I think it's ridiculous that the government won't go that way because it's the state that makes sure we go through energy exchanges. It is not to be put on people who don't drive on electric vehicles, since many people who are taking blockers are buying their first apartment, often starting their first family, even paying off student loans, and so on. It is hardly acceptable if it is the right thing the Land Protector director says that only those who have more afford to own an electric vehicle can afford. Somehow, it's all so creaked in this presentation and in this ideologies that you just don't have a word. Now we're going to ban the import of the 2030 fuel and diesel cars, and that's not for many years. How do you plan on doing this? On e.g. to tax people from the capital? What about those who need to be in service here, all aimed at this blessed transport program? We discussed it the other day, and it was repeatedly found that a central service to serve the whole country will be in the capital. I wonder.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u45	Madam President. I will continue to discuss this official community that should be formed. Member States own the state and six rural societies in the capital area, and contribute funds to build up transportation in the capital area, infrastructure, cycle and footpaths, and city line. It is expected that direct donations from state and rural areas will be 3 billion dollars. every year. That's 250 million a month, 8 million a day. This is enormous and not unnecessary, Madam President. I don't see any of this money coming from the road system in the capital area at all. I believe it is long ago that the road system in the capital area will be built up near the capital. There has truly been a long wait for that. A growing need is great. But as I have said before, I do not like to place money at this time in the so - called city line. I'm all for building public transportation, and that's been done lately, rather, but pretty badly. This public partner is expected to belong to 75% of the state and to 25% of its members in the capital area, including the capital city of Reykjavík. The stock is formed to fulfill a covenant made at the end of September of the past between these parties. There was a agreement on the construction of transport wood, a covenant as called in the bill's report, but elsewhere it may be called the capital agreement. The commitments involved here are fulfilling. It hasn't happened yet. The bill measures the establishment of the company, while caring for the city-line workforce in cooperation with the road modeling of the transport project. I'm just a little bit concerned that the city's project office is in line with this project while the union is not established. Why would that be? Why would it be called a city planning room when you hear repeatedly from some members of the board that it's not about a city line? Yet it's called the city project office. I thought that the founding pathways and construction of various other roads, biking footpaths, and footpaths were a major part of the project, yet it is still called the city's basic project room. Why would that be? Of course, the person in charge is the major part of Reykjavík, and the main focus is on the city line. I'm afraid, Madam President, that as the years go by and this partner lives on its own, the main focus will be on this project, which I have chosen to call a dream factory, because dreams will never be fulfilled, although men will see to it that they can do the job for years and decades. This has not been successful in the last decade, and it has been difficult to predict that this will happen in the years to come. But, of course, I'm ready, and I certainly don't object to trying to build up and do anything to build powerful public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u46	Madam President. I mentioned in a previous talk the review of Kingdom Accounting, and I believe that there is a reason to correct what it says. There may be two main elements. On the one hand, according to the bill, there is no evidence that the information related to the proposed civil society on the WCC. Well, Mrs. President, I guess that's not satisfactory. Let us remember that here we have a document written in the manner of such institutions with great care and care, out of moderation. It further says that the National Reconnaissance does not consider material to be a key element of the bill's authority to establish public partnerships on the projects in preparation. This must mean that unless it counts as a very good reason, the office would like to avoid taking up the job unless it is specifically directed to the Agency by the right authorities. Therefore, by permission of the president, what follows is the more important comment: However, it is reasonable to point out the importance of planning prior to implementing both thorough and transparent tasks. As today's, much of the so - called city line seems to be vague. So this comment is made to address the importance of planmaking. There is no question that it seems that the planning of this case is not in vain. This is especially true in the spirit that the middle class and I have noted in our discussion of transportation, since this is one of the issues, of course. For example, there is not even a city line run-in. It is not even a matter of shrewdness or sense or a plan with an overview of the costs and possible income of the project in its simplest form. There's no such thing. In terms of the funding of the project, there is also no problem with how to handle it if individual initiatives are made in this cooperation project established by this public community meetres up with a wide - scale budget. Then there is simply inadequate discussion of how the additional cost is divided between those who have access to the State or State Fund and the six rural communities. Of course, this is not sufficient. The city line cost plan seems to have been a little running. In one document, the number 70 billion, which applied in 2018, was revised in 2019 to 80 billion. Who knows where this will end, Madam President? But government funds are supposed to put in this 50 billion dollars, and it is naturally quite different. Madam President. I wish to be re-registered on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u47	Madam President. Sadly, the Icelandic project account contains a great deal of examples of construction projects that have failed to meet the cost of construction time. Close to modern times, we might point to the first flight station of the son of Leifs Erik of 1986. You might point to the Pearl in the Ascension. You might point to the city council in Reykjavík. These are all examples of projects that far exceeded the initial budget. There are many people, both in and out of the house, who have wondered why we middle - class people are talking about the situation here. This is one of the reasons, Madam President. We are concerned that the state's funds have their commitment in this proposed public participant or ohf. to commit a state fund even more than the 50 billion that the more part is ready to add. As noted earlier, the Independence Party is as ready as it really is to finance the campaign program of Dagur Eggertsson Emegerson and his partner in the city of Reykjavík. And because I said the cost plan, Mrs. President, there is a close-up example in Nautilus, which was originally to cost a bit of a sign but ended up in half a billion, and the whole story is not told yet. This depends on careful planning. It was found that the urban cost would be 2 billion, so we're talking about business a year. The head of the Department of Transports of Reykjavíkurburg, may be more than one person, but it was quoted yesterday - probably because of the comments presented here in the discussion that there is no confidence in the lack of a management plan - this fine man said there is no need for a management plan now. Then you have to ask: If it's not time for business management plans for the city line to exist now when the Allied Council is about to commit a state fund to a business of 15 years up to 50 billion, a company we don't yet know how to look and a thing we don't know what to look like, I don't know when it should be. If this bill is finally approved, should it be available only now in August? Should they be there when the Council has signed that government funds open a vein that leaks into this project? No, Madam President, it's time and it's not just the time but, of course, normal. It's normal and modest, and it's true, there's a running plan for this phenomenon that's city line. I have to say, a seated president is, apart from being the chief expert on transportation, especially on the capital area, perhaps the only statesman who has told everyone here what a city line is. I have asked quite a number of people, "What is a city line? Hv. A senator and now a sitting president said it was a phenomenon that would pass through on red carpets in Reykjavík and speed up public transportation. It was very interesting to me, and this may be, as I say, the first thing I heard about what really is in this art. I began to look at the latest Reykjavíkurburg exhibit on the subject and to use proben, Madam President, I understand that a seat to be introduced at the city's waiting stations. I wait very excitedly, and I'm sure the city will, too. But I would have, Madam President, instead of getting information about what seats are supposed to look like at the hold, were more available in one scheme. I would have thought it was more appropriate. But maybe it's just me. However, Mrs. President, now seated, signed that the city line was this super-carriage that would move through the capital area to speed up the journey. As a result, I began to examine the second - largest decoration show from the City Hall, where the first stage of the city line was very prominent. From Cape of Aarg, he goes west to Reykjavík in a few curves across a bridge that is uninhabited over Fos Sog, originally supposed to be for a walk and a bicycle, from there to two 60 years'journey to a small well in Kópavogi. This is 12 miles away, and this is a 13 - mile [3 km] route, as the city's overview shows, as stops stations or stations around 25. It must be thought of how fast a man up at Cape and needs to go to Turbulence is going that way, then, 13 miles, and stop 20 to 25 times on the way. Besides it's certainly so that this vehicle, you seem to be like two buses attached together, will pass through a red carpet that will probably be pulled through the waters of the Cape, British, Parked Head, and nearby, and will drive out the employment that is probably up in Esjurela or out of the city as far as modern is concerned today in the greater part of the world. That's where the line will go through the Voga, the old Southland Railway, and I wondered about it because the old Southland Railway is one of the longest. This chapter will allow only the city line to fit, or the other traffic will be banned, or it will go anywhere else. The city line will then be expected to take another lane of Southland and Lairways from the Council or down to the Bolfisway and then the Southland Railway will be the highway of one lane other than the city line. True, the street, which is very fine, such as, has also been squeezed into by bicycle traffic. That's very good, because they're safe there, and they're not running them down, and they get their move very soon. Well, I guess that's where other lanes go in this section under the city line. But, Madam President, we're coming to a new location, which is Hófisgatan. It is the narrow street where buses are having trouble today. I can't see by any means, but I don't see space there for a red carpet under the city line. What's more serious about this, Madam President, is that, of course, it's already built up the Bolfjörður Street very pleasant for an apartment. The apartments are usually relatively small and relatively inexpensive, given the location that young people, many with children, have moved to them. Now I ask Mrs. President: Is it a child - married to live on a street where a 18 - mile - 40 - 50 - mile [40 m] bus passes every seven minutes? I don't think so. Maybe it's just me. I need to illustrate this way more fully in my next talk, for I see that my talk is over and that I pray for it. President putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u48	Sadly, the president is not in a position to answer. The members of the council have questions that are addressed to it, but they want to point out why. A senator will be discussed on the council web.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u49	Madam President. I've been reviewing just some of the articles of the bill we're discussing here, which is a bill for a license to establish an official transport development partner in the capital area. The members of that partner are a government fund of 75% owned, and then their rural areas in the capital area, i.e. Gardensville, Hafnarfjörður, Kópavogsville, Mosfellstown, and Setjannestown. I was, when I finished giving the name 7. The bill that discusses the development of the state's domain, as stated in the bill, by permission of the President: The EU shall agree with a special agreement with the Minister of the State, with the rights and responsibilities associated with it, as part of the government's contribution. The contract should include: determine the limit of the land and its delivery criteria for the company. Then one will ask himself, " What is there in this land, in the land of Legion? ' In fact, there is a very valuable and beautiful land, a green area in Reykjavíkurburg, and a sin that some of it will be placed under the city line will be realized. Now there's already a place in this country for construction and operation, i.e. An important site for research, and it takes considerable money to transport that activity. First, find a new place for that activity. Will it be within the capital area? The cost of getting land under such a great quantity of activity is high. New buildings must be built and then reassigned. All of this costs money, and it is expensive when the business has to go down or wait at least during the transfer. There's no talk of it here, Madam President, who's supposed to be the source of this cost? And I have to say, I think it's a big mistake on this agreement that it's not said here. It just says here, by permission of the President: ▪ All benefits of the development and sale of the country shall flow undelivered to the project on the construction of transport in the capital area. The Society shall take care of the development of the country in cooperation with its organizational authorities, with the aim of maximising its value and its potential for building up where possible. There is no discussion of who should survive the cost of transporting the current activity, building new buildings, and buying or renting weights. Is the city of Reykjavík going to get land under this operation elsewhere and charge money from the state or sell it for a billion, or two or three? You don't know anything about it. Will the Kingdom then be the source of the present? No. I believe, Madam President, perfectly normal that the members of the state of this community have this cost. I would have liked to see here a law of change in this article that the government's cost of reassigning the state's activities and setting it up in another place would favor other owners in proportion to their share of property. This has to be in the way, Madam President, it's not fair that the state's budget has to be adrift on this expense. I'm surprised there's no such thing in the bill. I can't find a letter on this in my report and much less in the terms of the bill. To my judgment, it's just not good enough work. This needs to be addressed, and it's one of them failings to this agreement that I've pointed out. I've pointed out more things, 6th paragraph. Even, which I crossed earlier. I see, Madam President, that the time has passed and will continue in the next talk to discuss some of the articles of this bill. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to be put back on the rosary, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u50	V.E.G. President. I was told about the importance of earlier Dizziness, and all the time, I think, I've been on the board at the city of Reykjavík since 1980, 1990, something like this, but nothing has happened yet. Here's a State Department report, which is certainly 2015, which I have read and would like to quote only that text by permission of the president: By the construction of the Sunway, highways from the Qunos in the downtown city of Reykjavík will be up to Kjalarnes, considering that they are now traveling on Sea Way and Westland, by a factor of about 7.5-0.9 miles (Linavouring, 2006). - This is based on the calculations from the 2006 Lines design, when this journey through the Sunway was expected to take place and then didn't take place on a number of factors. It is therefore intended to improve road transport between Reykjavík and Grafarvogs on the other hand and Reykjavík and Kjalarness, however, will bring benefits to the capital and add links to Western and Northern countries. Then the Sunway will cut down through Mosfellstown, reducing the need for investment and maintenance of the current Western road from the southern corner of the South and the southern coast of the Sunday Road of Kjalarnes to the north. On page 37 of the same report, according to the permission of the president: A survey of individual areas shows that the track has the greatest influence on the Grand Way, the West, and the Grafarvogur. Further, if traffic modelling results are further developed, the results suggest that the overall number of people in automobiles in the capital area declines by the development of the road, depending on the complete reach of the direction of road changes. This is not to say, however, since road transport is the most important factor in driving, while the amount of time you spend in traffic accidents is likely to increase. The traffic model declines by 91⁄2-10% per year, with the development of the track, in the capital area all over. This results in increased travel time security and better travel experience. - It's not late anymore. Let us consider, though, that it refers to an average trip during the day. The time at rush hour speed to travel will likely reduce much more than 93/4 10%, the nature of the case. Despite low traffic numbers on one stage in the Sunway, the results of this report indicate that the waterway is acceptable. This is only from this report from the Ministry of Internal Affairs since 2015 and these facts are absolutely available, but somehow nothing has happened. And it has to be said, as it is, that it is as if Reykjavíkurburg has been across the way of paying for this project in all its ways and is completely incomprehensible, since all evidence indicates that it is going this way, however it will be gone, it is absolutely necessary. I've been talking about, like, before. Just shorten the route to the surrounding areas, such as Acdín and Borgnes, which would become more upbuilding at places where people want to work down south, because the area is now getting tighter. I see my time is up, so I have to ask the president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u51	Madam President. I only went through the opinion of the committee of the greater part in a talk earlier and will continue to look at it. But I would like to say, Madam President, that I miss the members of the board coming here and trying to sell us the idea of this partner. In particular, I miss the members of the Independence Party coming and telling us how wonderful this society is, how wonderful it is to create such a union, frame in funding, and cooperate with the mayor's section, because it does not seem to the mayor's party particularly like this, as can be seen from an article of the oddness of the party in the morning newspaper recently. However, independent members of the General Assembly have taken steps to see that this matter has to go through the council. I am surprised at how the matter has been handled because the ultimate cost is not clear at all. The feeling is that humans have been set in motion on a trip they can't handle. They do not decide which way to go, so they do not decide where to go, and so they usually decide where to end. It has to be said that you didn't believe it too long ago that the Independence Party would amaze the ideas of this city line, almost no matter what it cost. Madam President. In itself, there is no support in this bill or in the Commission opinion that fences the project with unauthorized access to government money, so we just put it that way. The task will be planned, and it is not clear who should pay. I don't feel that this is a job that I can do, with no final view of the final figures, and I intend the state to pay for it. It's out of the question. It's just that it's out of the question. I feel that there is good reason to wonder why people don't want to pay for it in a proper way. At least it's very irresponsible, I would say, and really new, that the members of the Independence Party do this with their money, leave the box open for others to scour the money in it. I think, too, Madam President, that the taxpayers deserve better, taxpayers who have waited for a drop in taxes for many, many years. The Independence Party has promised a drop in taxes year after year, both on individuals and on companies. But they do not see that such promises will be fulfilled in the coming years if we look at the state of the Kingdom Fund today and the commitments that are under way. In view of the recent election, it is of great interest that the Independence Party performs this task as one of its main achievements into the campaign. Everyone knows that he cannot once again promise a tax reduction, a public increase in income, since it seems to have long since disappeared from his views. The Independence Party has become the face of the one who expands the state field. In other matters to be done now, we see a large increase in government activities that the Independence Party has decided to swallow. Then he leaves the box open, apparently, in the task facing the city line. It is quite remarkable, Madam President, to see that the budget is not better paid for. I wondered, " What is the point? ' In particular, I wondered why no one will come up and try to reason and speak for the case. I specifically advertise after that moment. paritaprevir Sigríði Á. Andersen, 1st. Smokeports, come up here and tell us what's so great about this company that she's about to have set up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u52	Madam President. I was discussing a bill about the establishment of the official community on the construction of transport infrastructure in the capital area. It's where I'm thinking about the pressure, but it's part of the government's contribution, or it's assumed to be the Feldland. The bill was published on a budget committee and all the members of the bill are, in fact, some in advance, members of the administrative body, but a special committee is due one member. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children, where he believes the plans for a city line are unthinked. It's not like whisk. Birgir Þórarinsson's nest is the only source to warn the city line. Rather, it is a number of politicians and engineers, etc. who have been writing the last few days about the city line, warning that the amount of investment is being made when much of it is said to be the least uncertain. I'm just gonna talk about the Feldlands. A greater proportion of the budget committees have made comments in their members'list, requiring a decision on conditions due to the delivery of the country. In that country, Iceland's Tiluna Institute for Pathology will decide whether the test center will remain in the region or if there will be a new location, more attention will also be made to the estimated prices of the state's land at Köldur by its size and location. Thus, the development of the land's value is a key factor in the outworking of the work. If my valuables are to increase directly the contribution of the State Fund under the Treaty. If the value of the material is greater, it is reasonable that the amount of money is reduced from the part of the project that was intended to be funded by quick and traffic costs. I can't figure this out. If value becomes less, the value of the traditional land, the State should pay. If there is to be more, the government will continue to pay what was originally planned for the project than funding was reviewed because of speed and traffic costs. I can't quite figure out this kind of contract. This is totally one-sided. I sometimes wondered, Madam President, who is in charge of all these issues involving the city line. It doesn't matter where you go, it's a different way. The government's supposed to push out the price. But if it becomes higher - no, the government's expenses should not be lowered. This is strange, and I have only rarely seen one - sided presentation of any project. The Kingdom is in place, and the State repeatedly passes this over. That's very different, Madam President. It doesn't matter how long you read, you'll always bump into something new in it where you lean on a government fund. The public tax is no money. It's not money to bet on. I'll be completely speechless about this. That's very different. I have hardly ever, but there is something else that I can see in and about the part of the State, and I come to that in my next speech. It's about one side.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u53	Madam President. There's hope for it. The last speaker, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, is surprised at this matter. They're supposed to shovel billions of dollars on an undefined project, which no one knows. People think they know what it is, and there are many definitions, but this is an incomplete task and at least One member of the Independence Party never refers to this as just a so - called city line and speaks of it as a phenomenon. In addition to taxing the city or road users up to 60 billion and getting what instead? More traffic jams because there's going to be less lanes for the family car? It's no wonder they were blown away. It is quite remarkable that a group of people with such a dignified story as the Independence Party intends to stand by using consumer control under these marks, pushing people into the city line. Madam President. What is the point of this matter? I'm not pointing a question to a president. I'm looking at a general question. What effect will this city line have on a pay trip to make police, firefighters, and ambulances? You ask yourself that question. There are a number of people who work for the elderly, nurses who go from house to house, physical therapists who go between the homes of the elderly, whatever skills, people with food shipments, people who perform social services - are supposed to follow this city line? Madam President. In this case, there is a review of why we should bring up the matter. It's a review from the Organization that deals with something other than what I was talking about here. However, there is a serious comment on rules regarding the purpose and goals of the Society. It is attributed to the introduction of a series of articles with the bill referred to a 2019 transport contract that aims to improve quality of life in the capital area by building efficient, practical, safe, and environmental transport. However, it is attributed to the objective of the bill, not to the above goal of promoting improved quality of life in the capital area. The following is said, by permission of the president: ▪ A Community agency believes that it is a fundamental proposal for the subject of the bill that is valid in the objective of the bill. It also says in this heading that the bill's objective directive says that the same structure should be built into all transport, while the Organization makes a comment. She claims that this expression does not reflect what is discussed in the report with the bill. It refers to analyses that have been introduced into the regional structure of the capital area, which have shown the need to change the distances in the capital area and to increase the share of walking, cycleing, and those using public transport to reduce road delays and improve the quality of life in the population. This, Madam President, of course, needs to be done freely. People need to choose this freely. It's, for example. A lot of people here on electrically powered hiking bikes have gone to bed, and people have only made a decision about it. That's how we want people to live in the country, to make their own decisions. If they want to travel on bikes, that's what they do. If they want to walk, they will. If they want to drive in a family car or want to go to the bus, they will. It's just a free country. The government should not have any pressure on super taxation, as is planned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u54	V.E.G. President. In the meantime, I'm going to go to a window on the committee view my section of the budget board, which I was going to do earlier but was pointing to a story on RUS that hit me a little bit. A smaller proportion of legal committees agree with these issues, even though many other factors cannot be agreed. For example, the smaller part takes on the construction of transport workers and, in particular, is a source of joy that it seems to me that the modern power has a photodynamic system. We've talked about it here. We could start with that as soon as possible. Then there are projects on footways and construction of cycle paths and other eco-friendly species of transport. It really rhymes with my thinking. I think that sounds really good. Of course, it does appear here, and it is clear to everyone that the lesser part, i.e. Yeah. Birgir Þiririr Þórarinsson, cannot accept plans for building a city line. There's a lot of uncertainty about what the city line should be like. We have repeatedly noted that there is no strategy. However, it has been decided that waiting stations can be designed and established, etc. There are many more questions in this regard. The committee's opinion of forming a shareholder is discussed, and that is what we may be critical of. It is not entirely true that there is a shareholder on this project, especially since the information of this partner has not been clearly established, if e.g. Controversy. Of course, the big thing is to keep things clear and to know how to handle matters when something comes up. That's what we all want, so we don't get lost. It is then included in this minority party that there will be a clearer line regarding the administrative position of the control group set up as well. It's all in the same book. It's somehow adrift in the absence of sufficient clarity, so people know what they're accepting, they want to be involved in the fulfillment of this city line. It is absurd, of course, to discuss these traffic costs, especially if they are the same as I did in my previous talk, that those who drive on electric cars will be free of such charges for the induction of motivation. It's just one thing: If you don't have electric cars, you have to pay for the others who are more wealthy, as you've already said. It was particularly the head of the Land Guard that made it clear that in an updated climate operation program, it was just the ones who could afford to buy an electrical vehicle. It may also be noted that, of course, there is an urgent need to set up bases around the country. We know that there are new cars on the market, and there are special loading stations that follow a certain car signal, and we realize that we can see behind the more prosperous ones going around the country while the others are not even being given to go to camp places. I just reiterate that there's been an uncomfortable gap between here and wonder that people are really going to continue with this idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u55	Madam President. I'd like to state in the beginning that the President's conference board is irreprehensible. However, there was something else that came up earlier when I described that a sitting president was the first person to point out the sign of a city line. If my reflection on the soft red carpet of a city line was allowed to be interpreted as questions to a private president, that wasn't the meaning. I wouldn't direct questions to a sitting president who can't answer, so I'm going out as many people know I'm late to think, so it took me a while to wonder where I stepped out of the line. I just want it to be quite ready for the president to know that I have no idea of pointing to her when she cannot answer questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u56	Madam President. I'm going to continue my coverage of the unique articles of the bill we're discussing here, a bill for a license to establish an official transport development body in the capital area. This is a big, big deal, and if it is approved, it is committed to a government budget of tens of billions of dollars into the future. Hence, careful consideration of the matter is absolutely necessary. It's us in the Middle Ages that we've done here and we've done, especially since we're all state funds, like a dog. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson mentioned last night's kitchen talk. That is correct. A senator and the right to maintain it because this is a debt to a government fund for a substantial amount at the same time that the state's position is not good. It's heading for a substantial angle to the state's budget, even up to 300 billion dollars. Because of the virus epidemic. It is thought - provoking, Mrs. President, that at this critical point - and I do not speak of when the rural communities in which the agreement stands have requested government assistance, unrefundable strength, to face such events as rural funds and urban funds as a result of the chord epidemic - are under enormous financial obligation for this project. The economic situation in the country due to the virus epidemic, which I mentioned in the discussion of transport programmes, should alone give reason for at least Later, when the case was delayed, consider whether it would be wise to make the most of the commitments involved. Last time I went here, I went through 7th paragraph. The bill, about the takeover and development of a country owned by the state, and is going to finish it. I stressed that there are significant costs of transporting operations and monuments that are already present in Köldnaland and the Köldur test center. There is no discussion in the bill of who should survive the cost of reassigning the work. Will be rented weights or purchased weights, e.g. of Reykjavík? In turn, the transport itself is costly, and all its activities are involved. Then, naturally, you have to remove the manpower. It also takes considerable money. There's nothing about it in this deal. There's a real problem with that. That is why I would have wanted to see the law that the State's cost of moving the institutions of the State off the land and to place it in another place is paid by other owners in proportion to their division. It is only natural that those who live in the land against the State will be involved in that cost. There's no reason for that here, nowhere. You wonder, " Is my rural society merely expecting government funds to be the source of the cost? ' That's why it's necessary to deal with this, Madam President, in Article 7. Eight. will be discussed with you on the basis of a loan account. It says, by permission of the president: It is permitted to borrow in excess of what is financed by contributions to the company, to make up the total investments, and to be assessed as practical for the development of transport and other activities of the company. Remuneration depends on the requirement that the state's funds lend the company a loan or that the government's responsibilities be borrowed from another person. The Society is authorized to establish a family in order to care for certain aspects of the Society's work, in accordance with its accepted and legal requirements. The Society is authorized to make any agreement with other parties in order to achieve its purpose in the most practical way. This has to be done exactly, and I'm going to do so in my next speech, since the time is running out, Madam President. I would kindly request the president to put me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u57	V.E.G. President. I'm going to quote one more report. It's from the Organization. It's from June 5th. We are talking about the establishment of the official government and rural society in the capital area. " By permission of the president, " says the agency's review: ▪2. par. The purpose and purpose of the club. The introduction of a report with the bill points to the government's transport contract and to the rural areas in the 2019 capital, where it aims to improve quality of life in the capital area by building efficient, economic, safe, and environmental transport. The bill's objective, however, does not conclude with the above goal of promoting improved quality of life in the capital area. The Organization believes that there is a basic sample for the subject of the bill that there is reason to show up in the objective of the bill. The introduction of a report with the bill also refers to analyses that have been developed by the regional network of the capital area that have shown the need to change the distances in the capital area and to increase the share of walking, wheeling, and those who use public transportation to reduce road delays and improve the quality of the population. There is no question that large amounts of resources need to take part in active transportation and public transportation in the capital area to meet the government's objective of sustainable, noncarboneous urban society. On the other hand, the bill's objective principle to promote the development of an equal structure for all transport, to be built. The organization believes that this expression does not reflect what is mentioned above. The objectives of the bill will not be met by the same structure of all transport. Whether you look at climate targets or the aims of quality of life, efficiency, efficiency, or security, you will clearly need to change the focus of transport from previous sources and put environmental travel first. In view of the above, the Organization sets up a-joint 2.g. The bill reads: To help improve quality of life in the capital area through efficient, economic, safe and environmental transport, with emphasis on changing travel, public transport, and active travel. The review is June 5, and I have to admit that I don't know if this has been accepted, but this tells me at least, as I've talked about before, that it wasn't given enough time to examine these teams in the bill before it was submitted that it's all done in time. I just have to say at the end of this talk that I'm always getting brighter and brighter as the days pass, people in society are waking up to the fact that this case is totally incapable of legalization and needs to work much better. It is a great responsibility that has come this far at the end of the council, we have entered the summer, and this case is totally unashamed to become law. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u58	Mr. President. I wasn't quite finished with the opinion of the committee, but I'm going to keep it a little bit and go back to the opinion of the lesser part as a boy. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's nest is signed. It warns about various things on the bill and how the future plan of these matters could become. I would like to grab hold of the committee's opinion on page 20. 2 which says, by permission of the president: In chapter 5 of the bill's work, we learn that because of the urgency of putting the bill before the Council, the bill was not consulted on the subject of government consultation. It will be noted that this excellent approach to consultation that has been developed to ensure the quality of legislation and that the public and stakeholders are not able to express their views. The plot was set up just so that the public could have access to issues and promote viewpoints. I suspect that very many of the people in the capital area have strong opinions on the city line and including the possibility of this bill. It has to be said that the speed, or what to call this, the agitation to get the case through, led to a decision made on the part of the greater part not to allow the public to comment through the confidentiality problem that has been specifically presented as a guide for public comments. Some know that everyone can make comments on a matter of Congress, but that may not be as well known and presented as this way, the mystery of speaking. Then, with the permission of a president, the poll says: The bill's report also shows the possibility that instead of covering up 15 billion dollars for the government. with the development and sale of the Netherlands it would be possible that the project will come from a similar country. No guide module can be found in the bill on which country to be watched. It would be interesting to know which country is meant there or what the meaning is, since the Netherlands is extremely valuable. No one has to doubt this. In effect, it can be wondered why, on a large scale, the government has not taken steps earlier with that land, i.e. planning it for construction or government construction. Of course, it is well - known that the State needs to reimburse its facilities regularly and adapt them to modern times, whether it is a building for the Board of Governments, hospitals, State Schools, or whatever it is. They're taking a very valuable land and putting it in this public community. It adds: To explain Article 6 of the article "The Bible - God's Word Is Truth! " The bill shows that the capital structure of the company was not fully implemented. When it comes to such an expensive and complex work as is intended to be carried out by the law, it must be assumed that it would be better to have taken care of before the bill was submitted. Under these circumstances you can take absolutely. The budget structure of the company has not been implemented. That's often what you see when you're saving time with an assignment or getting away from things, and that's how you do it. I don't think it's been right enough when it hasn't been made up yet. It also states, by permission of the President: There is no provision for reimbursement, and there is no evidence that this is being done by transport and rural management ministers. This will lead to the chances that everything would eventually indicate that it will be a government fund, which will run out of 105 billion dollars. 120 billion dollars. has reached the transport sector. Are members of Congress willing to place so much of the government funds in the coming years on such projects? How does this affect other assignments? What will this have to do with other commitments made by the State Fund in an environment where the state's funds are increasing their debt and income to draw together, and since it is clear that those responsible for the treasure need to set priorities in a way that is not being done? I wish to be put back on the rosary, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u59	Mr. President. I've been reviewing the opinion of more of the budget committee. One thing gives me thought, not from words to words, but when I am already over it. Is it not surprising that in the majority opinion of five pages, there is no discussion of the city line? There's nothing about the city line except to repeat what was in the paper with the bill on how much funding should go to the city line, otherwise nothing. Isn't this surprising, Mr. President? In a minority party of night. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, is discussed in a considerable way the city line, but in the majority view that everyone else had. Senators on a budget signed, there's nothing about a city line. Yet this is one of the biggest projects in Iceland. Maybe Merians are bigger, but this is one of the biggest projects in Iceland. And in the majority of legal committees, there is nothing about a city line but a repetition of what is presented in a bill itself. In fact, at the end of the committee, there is something to show that a person is somewhat thoughtful. I read, with president's permission: The more part of the enterprise is entitled to take full advantage of the work. There is a lot of money to play in one of the largest transport projects currently under attack and the need for careful action on all programmes, based on the benefit and cost analysis of all to-dos and implementations. I can take my mind off this. In spite of everything, despite the fact that not only members of the Central Party are involved, many experts in this field and politicians, both at councils and in rural governments, are being identified as being attacked by a very costly project. And that's hardly a concern. That is evident in the majority view only in the sense that I was reading here. Isn't that amazing, Mr. President? In fact, it is to be noted that some members of the council who sign the majority opinion do so in advance. That may include some kind of warning, and you may expect it to be there, hoping that there would be some warning against making such an unattracted attack. Because I am still a part of the committee's list of things, it shows that the State accepts responsibility for taking charge of traffic, and I would like to go to it better in my next speech. The state takes a major part of the responsibility, 45 billion, and is responsible for these 60 billion, says here, by permission of a president: ▪... assumes responsibility for the funding of the $60 billion. which are going to be funded by quick and traffic costs in the capital area or possibly by property sales or by reimbursement of fuel and vehicles taxation laws. So the government is responsible for 45 billion, not only of that but also of the 60 billion, possibly by selling property sales, by selling Banks of Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u60	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill on clearance to establish an official transport building organisation in the capital area. It is a joy to see that some movement is getting to that point after the construction stop that has been for years. As a result, as a result of the growing population in the area and other such factors, there have been problems in driving, and people who go to work in the morning and from work in the afternoon spend a long time in cars. There is, of course, a clear limit in quality of life beyond its waste. I'm sorry, Mr. President, the emphasis is on these projects too much on the so-called city line. Nowhere has there been a turning point since the national use of a waterway that has been delayed for far too long. There's a review from the Allied Union of Iceland that there's a reason to draw attention to. It is attributed to the fact that this government society is a part of the community. To keep track of the construction of transport timbers, collect quick fees, and the development of the Feltnalands proposed by the Union. It also says that the company is expected to operate at least Until 2033. Then, according to the People's review, attention is attracted to the choice of setting up an official body member that oversees different tasks, i.e. The building of wood, the development of Köldnaland, and the potential collection of shortcuts. Then, with the permission of the president, they say: THERE is a lack of evidence to support the establishment of an official community around these projects. It does not show how to interact with the road structure or why the project is not financed by public donations, rather than by detriment and development of property. The public account states that it is highly important to invest in infrastructure in the coming years. Then they say: This approach was made clear in the recent ASI, the right route, of the development of Iceland for the future. Clearly, the current economic situation requires that the public go forth vigorously, responds to unprecedented contractions as a result of the spread of Covid-19 and contributes to full - time employment. They also say that a significant cumulative need for investment has already been in place before the present economic crisis - I suppose that by wording it referred to the pandemic economic crisis - and is explained by the lack of public investments for years in terms of population growth or changes in society, employment, and environment. For this reason, the Common Union gives every reason to criticize the need for investments in the infrastructure as being dependent and linked to sales of the property of the state. It refers to the development of Köldnaland, and it states that Iceland banking sales are also referred to as well as to collect quick fees. The common relationship expresses the view that the necessary investment in infrastructure and maintenance of infrastructure should not be financed by government sales but as part of the normal community business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u61	Mr. President. I have been reviewing some of the articles on the stock market and restitution that this is a very big case, a budget from a government fund of up to tens of billions of dollars. That is why there must be a real challenge. We have emphasized in the Middle Ages that we simply don't consider it wise to engage in this urban project, even though there are other things that are fine in this agreement that will compromise, such as to ride bicycles, construction projects related to pedestrians, light control, and other important tasks. But the city line project on its own is something we don't like. First, it is an enormous cost. The usefulness is not yet available, and there is evidence that it will not be sufficient to support the project. It has, among other things, been identified as "the true God, " and is" the God of all creation. " A Danish advisory firm points out that forced action is necessary to increase the percentage of those using public transportation and buses. We do not appreciate the approach in the Middle Ages to force people to get on the big bus set up in this suggestion. I'd like to come to 8. .....Mr. President, I went to my last speech. At the end, it says, with permission from the President: It is permitted to make any agreement with other parties in order to achieve its purpose in the most practical way. It is evident, of course, that this is a source of permission to make non-visible contracts. What, then, will be the financial commitments that a state fund needs to face there? It is clear that they must make a special contribution to the General Assembly for approval or demonstration. So it's a big surprise, Mr. President, not to say anything about that in the bill. You need to make it up to 8. with or without dasabuvir. You ask yourself, " Why don't you deal with this? ' If I go to level 9. is discussed in it about the breakup of the society. Then, with the permission of the president, they say: The EU will be removed after it has fully completed its work and once the complete work has been completed and all the products of the society have been taken care of. What will be the situation when these assets are to be taken care of? You would have thought natural that there was a law to have them assigned from the club to the owner of the club at the price of the total cost. It is not normal to be handed over to some community of these types of workers when society is cut off at expense. It's just completely abnormal, and that's why it is necessary to ensure this and to add a specific set of regulations that are to be distributed from the company to the owner of the total cost. This is one of the flaws in the bill I've been crossing. It is a law that must be adjusted and adjusted. It's in 6. Gr., I've been over her, and it's in 7th, 8 and 9th. I have to say, Mr. President, it's a real surprise that this has not been sufficiently guaranteed in the important agreement presented here and in such a big deal with commitments from a treasure of up to tens of billions of dollars. I think this rash approach must be done much better. Then they're shocked that we in the Middle Ages are having a hard time reviewing this matter. It is our duty if we bear in mind that this is a huge commitment on the part of the State Fund. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President, I hereby wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u62	V.E.G. President. I just mentioned in a speech earlier that I had heard some talk about the short history of the car. That's right. But how long is the history of the journey? A History of Transportation? How long has it been since people were out in the open or when they were going from town to town because both the confusion and the weather prevented them? It's not that many years, either, but maybe a little longer than the car was created. I thought of this, too, because I received an article published in the morning paper some time ago, an excellent article on this very subject. The article will appear in this issue because of the discussion that we have heard and delivered in these last days. The writer's name is Jónas the son of Elíasson. I want to read this article with the highest permission. President: The news is now coming from the Council that it has a long discussion of the transport program. It's a city line issue. Initially, the main purpose of transport improvements was to facilitate traffic between places. Then people were drowning in unbrided rivers and hooks on top of mountain roads. But now you can ask, Is that time gone? The urban population, according to a stated policy, is to force people to go to the bus by placing special street roads and stopping highways in the capital area by another traffic route. The other choice is to walk. Or a wheel, or a wheel in a sledgehammer, or a great fire? It was in such weather that people were sent from downtown to the wash - eyed in Saturday, here and now, in the past. The main purpose of today's transport strategy is to improve the country's highway system for the benefit of industry and economics. Blocking this road in the capital area should result in the intervention of the legislation rights of the local community, but it did not reward such efforts with a specific contribution on the transport program. It is not predictable where such an act will end; first, the General grants funding to build this way, so much more to block it. It's a big misunderstanding that this is going to work. Private cars are the patient part of the traffic. They're four times longer on the way when the dam costs a 30-minute delay in a 10-minute process, but most of them are going to have it. It's different with commercial cars. Their performance goes down to one-quarter. And how will they react? They're buying extra cars, and they're raising the price of the match. It's already started. Unity prices in the most difficult neighborhoods of downtown are already about twice as high as anywhere else. The cost of living in an apartment is 10 to 20 million higher. The dam is here to stay, and the bus, although on specific roads, cannot safely pass through the pack. He also has to make turns. At the end of this article, the president's permission says: ▪ A person would not think it was the city of Reykjavík for this purpose. It is better known for breaking down all ideas of improved culture and environment. Who would believe that she is heading for the city into the dusted furrows of concrete and blocked traffic, with the results mentioned above? And it's not going to be fixed with more million jokes and some meth-mill. In effect, a writer does not believe in his opinions, and we do not do so in the middle class, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u63	Mr. President. In my last speech, I was going a little over the first phase of a city line that has just come out and is at a hall show. It shows that the first stage is to leave Cape and plow there through a modern business that will be driven away, probably up to Esjuela, or out of the city - it is quite in fashion with the mayors to drive both institutions and businesses out of the city - and then to travel through Vogatown, a short stop, and then down the Southland once, and the topmost Locular Road. On this route, Mr. President, I'm sure you'll be able to lay a red carpet, i.e. Through the trade zone up on the Cape, which will be removed. It is hard to see that a branch can be set on the Southland Railway, the oldest chapter, but it is likely that other lanes of Southland can be blocked from the River of Oldest, or from the Rock to the Shaltway. I've been worried about it, and I've already told them that it must be a concern for those who've bought apartments at Holfisgats' Street to find out all of a sudden that this bus, about Twice the size of that which now happens shall go every seven minutes by the head of Belt. I think that must be a concern for many. Then, as we have seen, this double bus goes down to Savile Street. I don't know how he's going to get that corner off Nautilus Street, but maybe something will be done to make it possible. It's remarkable, Mr. President, in the case of the surrounding area, i.e. The first five - star hotel is being built in a harbor of harbor square, but there is no way the city line is expected to reach that area, and it was not guided when it was built; the headquarters of the Bank and what it is now. But if the city line car reaches a turning point into the Savile Street, then the road will lead out a river street, two double buses every seven minutes, and into a Humvee Road. Mr. President. I have to admit that I'm particularly concerned that there will be double buses, which are 18 m long and possibly 40 tons or more, over this old bridge we have here on Scotland Road, a beautiful bridge, and directly from the World Hall. The question must be, if a red carpet is to be laid there, whether it has a bridge and a change, strengthens it, and whether it should happen at the expense of the Tjarn. There's something I really care about being clear. It's natural, with the prelude that the bus reaches the corner of the Scotland Road, which I don't quite see. From this point on, the University of Reykjavík will be extended as they will be taken back up the Continental section. And using Mr. President, I have not seen any suggestion that the Ring Road beneath the New Land Hospital, which is there in the wrong place, will be promoted. I have not seen anything to indicate that the two lanes, two times two, will be promoted in any way. Then you ask yourself, " If I'm going to be in that part of the city line, how will I reach this hospital? ' It is not unforeseeable for a helicopter, for the traffic around it must be so that only the flying bird will be able to reach the hospital. It will be informative to watch the path of a human being. Mr. President. As a result, I planned to review some of the points presented in a very good article by Hilmar Þór Björnsson, an architect. I see that my time is running out so I don't get it, so I have to divorce the first phase of the New Land Hospital and ask the President to re-establish myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u64	V.E.G. President. I'm going to proceed with my opinion of a member of the legal committee, which is presented by force. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's son. I was here to discuss the administrative position of the control group intended to establish, if not already. He seems to be planning to manage the company and is expected to make all major decisions by this control group. It is a question of whether it is completely legal to treat these matters this way and every reason to draw attention to the fact that these factors might be considered more carefully. The control group is also designed, the head of all control groups, to organise how to collect traffic costs in 2022, and it is now quite remarkable that it is the control group that should provide this information. I cut by earlier, for what? paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, he's talking about Ring Road and Land Hospital in the wrong place. That's exactly what could be taken into account. I don't know that the ambulances sent a bill or found out how to manage the surrounding environment. I wondered if they had been consulted because the bill did not consult, and I understand that only six envelopes were received that directly involved in this huge project, and I find it strange. There is nothing more to worry about, but that there is simply a delay in the arrival of ambulances. If anyone knows anything, I would appreciate that information. The committee also discusses the possible land under a new hospital, the country of Fireland, which is to be sold. There is yet one very strange thing to do, to expect that land to go under the city line or part of it rather than think about it a little over again. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's nest ends with permission: THE majority rejoice that there is a channel and hopefully a successful way to build up transportation in the capital area in the future, although much remains unsolved, as is done in the Committee's section, and it would have been better if those cases were resolved before the bill became a law. The smaller portion, however, feels that plans for a city line are unattracted. The task is enormously costly and does not lead to the practicality that is normal. So it is my opinion that this is a waste of the taxpayers' funds. I can't agree more. But it is also very special that this huge matter has not gone through a confidential talk, and it is also very strange to know that people are surprised that we members of the Central Party want to discuss this matter. It's not just that there's something about the city line, such money's underneath, and once again I feel that there's an abnormal priorities in this. It has not been made up of other factors that might be of concern, such as simply building an incentive to change people's attitude to use the bus, modern light control, and starting with the founding track and planning to cycle and eco-friendly transport. There's a lot of stuff in there. I'm waiting for the highest. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u65	Mr. President. We're still discussing the group that's supposed to set up the projects that all this is about. No doubt there can be opinions as to whether the path that has gone is necessarily the right and the best. This is no doubt my very good way for the rural communities to somehow hang the state of the bus, the trolley, the bus, the train car, or what it will finally be, as some sort of passenger who has little to say which way this car goes, little to say where it stops, and still remind them of where it stops eventually because the expected task will be so that it will stop both late and bad, i.e. Unforeseeableness is great. It is very special that the government groups begin such a journey by bus, which is marked by an adventure. Of course, uncertainty has a premise, suggesting that there are parties and joys and things like that. This adventure may be filled with parties and joy for those who are going to break around the project, but I think it will eventually prove very expensive to the population, the taxpayers of the country, when it has to pay for the journey, pay for what the passengers do, i.e. The board of directors, took off on this journey. One of the first photographs that appeared by the government, now seated, was taken through a window at the Ministerial Resident. There's a bowl of champagne. The government was called the champagne government for a short time afterwards. They believed that there was a reason to toast the success of having brought these three groups together. That, in fact, is no remarkable achievement in view of the fact that the government's condition is more like a gray soup that is tasteless and insignificant. But I wondered if the champagne regime has become untested, so I need to take a bus all over the house, jump into the city line to reach its destination. It's probably one of the most expensive trips we've ever made, since the cost is not at hand, and you wonder if it would have been better to stay in the cabin and make more toast. However, it is especially interesting to see that the independent party and the advance party have boarded, sitting on a fourth row, or something like that while the left green press on, and others are at the wheel. This is an advantage that these classes decided to choose. I'm worried that at the end of the trip, not only will the supplies be finished but the account that will be sent to the taxpayers will be very fat. That's one reason why you warn against going on this journey, warning that the government groups are jumping into the wagon and an eagle with him wherever he is going. The confusion of the bill's message, all of which make and proclaim it, is such that people should not even think about jumping on board. I'm just saying. It's so impressive with this whole trip that all that's expected, the only thing that's not certain, is that it's gonna be much more expensive than planning. Much more expensive. That is why you wonder, " Why are people taking such a risk? ' Why do people take such a journey? The covenant under which it is signed is like some kind of pressure, as if they were forced into this car and could not escape the journey. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u66	Mr. President. I was going over the committee opinion of the majority of the section on the bill and discussing the establishment of this community. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The more part points out that the enterprise is designed to play a key role in the construction of transport in the capital area, but the nature of the case has not ended the agreement on priorities and funding. The rural areas in the capital area have had a different view of transport solutions, but society is supposed to negotiate solutions and make agreements of various kinds, such as the road modalities and the development of the state's land with Kenldur to maximise its value. This work of the Society is structurally different, but it is very important that the negotiation is successfully implemented in order to achieve the most practicality in the structure. Mr. President. In my opinion, this thought is an enormous amount of time, i.e. how this club should work. This is shown in the text I was reading that the rural communities in the capital area have a different vision, and the Society is supposed to make some sort of reconciliation there, and that is to be negotiated. Therein comes the role of the Roadmaker. The road is designed to handle the road, as the name clearly indicates. There's an intermediate between the government, the financier, and the Roadmaker, who is this public body. This official partner should handle two major factors, i.e. Structural development of transport, consisting of footways, bicycle trails, footpaths, etc., and also the city line, which is being distinguished in the number of costs, as stated in the bill: Civil lines receive specific amounts and then other amounts are made up in the area. Who will supervise and oversee this, that the corresponding proportion of funds will go on this vastly different task, i.e. Public transport and then construction of stockways and mixed streets, etc. Here in the capital area, which is a government business, and on the other hand, the local community? Who's gonna be keeping an eye on that money? Yes, they are members appointed to the administration of this community. But then there are these ideas just ahead of time that the bill expects six executives, three members of the state and three members of the community. It wasn't even thought, so it's so fast in this, that if there was a problem, and they had to vote in the board, the votes might fall equal. The only change the committee makes on the bill is in this regard. This is so obvious, Mr. President, that it is surprising that this has not been addressed in the original bill. In view of the greater part, it says: ▪ The more part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: After the 3rd matter. Section 5. If there is a new proverb, as follows: The manager's song determines the tie of a vote within the board. Such an obvious correction of a bill with such enormous sums of money as this suggests that the speed of the bill is too high, too restless. There's so much time to finish it, people forget things as clearly as this. I'm not saying it was a big deal, but it's so obvious that it shouldn't have passed those who wrote the bill if they had had had some time to think about it and to go over it. It didn't seem like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u67	Mr. President. In my last speech, I realized the political nature of this case and because it actually revolves around the induction of a socitic policy, a socilic community control, pointing to East Germany. This bill would have been very, very comfortable with the control system there and its emphasis. I also mentioned how such approach, socialistic policy, eventually everyone, and how this will do the same. Instead of continuing to work, as in recent decades, to raise people up, to improve their interests, to allow more people to own cars, to own apartments as beds the family, to push them in the other direction, to make it impossible to have a family car, and to force them to use the road that is set up here, the city line, and to live in smaller apartments and without parking. This is contrary to the policy that has been fired in Reykjavík for decades. I pointed to the irony that the Independence Party is making this possible, financing this fundamental change in how governments treat the people and draw closer to their opportunity to gain greater freedom. In effect, when I say "at least" I mean that this is a barrier to people's ability to earn money and freedom. They're putting people in the same box and on the same line, as they did in East Germany. Now I'm going to continue to trace the bill as a result of my explanation of the political nature of the matter, for I thought it was important to start with that political explanation so that I could relate it to the content of the bill. I had come to help with a report 2. It is written by the president's permission: To achieve two economic goals, public funds can increase their investments. I forgot to mention one thing, Mr. President. This section is trying to use the Covid situation as a basis for going into this, which says, in part, by permission of the president: To achieve two economic goals, public funds can increase their investments. On one hand, to support demand with emphasis on implementation of national production factors. However, in order to promote increased production, with emphasis on economic interest projects. Increased production with emphasis on economic profit - can anyone think of suggesting that this urban project involves increasing production with emphasis on economic interest projects? We've already heard that a double bus system is in place when the city line comes in. The cost of the old bus system will increase at least 2 billion bucks. During the past decade, and its business has not now been economicly profitable, if ever. In fact, the buses depend only on a third of them. Two thirds are supported by taxpayers. Now, there is to increase the cost of this system and then add a new system to it, a city line, which, as we see in so many cities abroad where this route has been tested, will become an enormous animal, not only in progress, but also in business. Yet, there is the chance of writing here that economic projects are emphasized. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I didn't even make it through point two and I'm waiting. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u68	Mr. President. We are on the basis of authority to establish an official part of the network, which should have specific projects in the construction of transport infrastructure in the capital area. The biggest project is the so - called city line. It is not quite clear what it is, but it seems to be expected that there will be buses of the larger type, two of which have been spoken. Then there are giant monsters who care about the capital and residence areas. There is no point in the actual cost of the project. Where is a suitable cost plan? It has been said that this project has been evaluated at 70 billion in 2018. Then there was a 2019 reevaluation and an increase between 14.3% and 80 billion. Higher numbers have been heard, like 120 billion. In this week's issue of Independence, in the city of Reykjavík, the Eye Laxdal Arnaldur, wrote an article in the Morning Press earlier and spoke of the total number of these 70-580 billion, i.e. Three times the money, and then we're over 200 billion. No one knows how much this will cost. It is clear that this is a huge project. What is not clear is how many inhabitants will want to take advantage of this. More research has been done, and 9 billion are spent each year. The proportion of people who have used public transportation was at the beginning of 4% and after nine years and 9 billion, so it's still 4%, so it's unclear. It is already in place and is directly recognized by the head of the city and its formalists that there is no plan for management. Yet, we are talking about spending 55 billion dollars on this project. of public funds. It's very peculiar. Mr. President. I was in my last talk about the very interesting review of the European Union of Iceland, where the relationship describes the importance of the introduction in the coming years. ASI has discussed this in its course and is to be found on the Allied website. The relationship points out that there is a significant cumulative need for investment, but its review gives strong criticism of the funding of this project. It says that the Common Union gives every reason to criticize the need for investment in the infrastructure, dependent on and linked sales of the State's property through the development of Köldnalands and possible sales in Iceland banks, and charged with quick fees. There, too, could have been said to be speed and traffic fees, since they are discussed in this bill. According to the review, the Common Union believes that the necessary investment in infrastructure and maintenance of infrastructure should not be financed by government property but is part of the normal community business. As a result, the UN reviews that under current economic conditions, the state has the power to support an increase in investment without being subject to property sales or that the public is being examined in the form of roads. I remind you, Mr. President, in the bill it is assumed that there will be a further penalty on the capital and on the 60 billion throughout the period. The headline says that the state has a much more efficient means of financing such projects for the future, e.g. Through a just tax system, where the burdens are less concerned with the low income, there is good reason to consider, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u69	Mr. President. I have been reviewing some of the articles of the bill, and I have emphasized that there are many things to make up for this branch society and the state fund for the construction of transport in the capital area. This is a huge matter, and there is considerable financial commitments for a wealth of money and every reason to consider these matters very carefully. Besides, we're not the city line project and we've been aware of that. I'd been over the 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th. The bill and the need to improve it and to place more protection on the debt of state funds. All I want to do is finish my work on 9. The title, the title of the inscription, is the color of the company. It says: The EU will be removed after it has fully completed its work and once the complete work has been completed and all the products of the society have been taken care of. The report on articles on the bill does not focus much on this article, but it is very important. The report says about 9. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The article will tell you that when the union has fully completed its work and when the complete work has been completed and all its belongings have been taken care of, it will be cut off. - The goods are natural traffic manpowers in rural society and must be taken care of for the disintegration of society. - It is assumed that society's projects will cover a period of 15 years. Clearly, the company will likely work longer in connection with the waste of individual tasks and the contribution to shareholders. Here, I would especially like to point to this sentence, because of the contribution to shareholders. But how is it accomplished? It doesn't say anything about it on the bill, nothing. The Society is to be fed by high - cost road constructions, and it is time to hand them over, the part of the local community, to say that Kopavogs is to be handed over the constructions of the town of Kopavogs. Then the question is, what will be the price of handing them up to the countryside? There's nothing covered in the bill. That's a big, serious flaw. I would've thought it should've added 9. The new lawsuit that could somehow be said that property should be assigned from the company to the owner of the total cost price. It's got a lot to say. It's very strange, Mr. President, in such an important agreement that there's no mention of it, nothing. Thus, there are other points, as I have mentioned in paragraphs 6, 7, 8. Which I've gone over. It's quite clear that here people have been way too quick, and you don't quite understand what the mind is behind. Is it simply the fact that in the end the wealth of the state should only be paying the side of all these things? The government's supposed to have 75% in this group and 25% of your societies. It is absolutely necessary to ensure that the interests of the State are well considered because they are 75% of this organization, which will be involved in managing another hundred billion dollars. The commitment on the terms of state funds is 75%. It is said in this transport contract that the State Fund pays about 105 billion of 120. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I'd like you to put me back on the rosary, since I'm going to go over this further in the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u70	Mr. President. I've been a bit busy in my recent talks, which have still been way too short, of the first phase of a city line, a tight neck, etc. On December 13, 2019, a 12 - man design team was organized for the city line and foreman of the city line, Mr. Hrafnkell Ásólfur Proppé, said, with the permission of president: 'It is a great pleasure to bring this design team together, all the best people and ready for the project. I mention this because I'm a little excited today, Mr. President, because it was to present the seats of the city's waiting station. I haven't seen it yet, and I don't know if it was going to happen at a press conference or how it was supposed to be, but I find myself pretty excited about it. I just wanted to go back to that thing I've been talking about before, i.e. the city line, phase one. As it turns out, I got across another phase that goes up to Mosfellsville, where I'm headed. But then, both in Breiðholt, and from the first phase I described earlier, I had basically reached the Land Hospital, where there comes another leg in and then goes from Watermoom and the long way up into Mosfellsville, which leads to a single crevice in the Breinnequins and other heifers in the south, from the mall, and from the south, down to Lafraden. Once I've watched this, Madam President, I don't understand why people don't just bus these routes, the one we're using today. I think that's the way it is, if you have a bus like we have, the big one that takes up to 80 passengers if you're standing in it, I've actually never seen a bus so full in Reykjavík, Mr. President, that now it's supposed to double that offer in every car in the city line. Now this system looks like a real shock to me, but I'm asking myself if it's not right if people are changing the tunnel system to just put the good old bus on these roads and increase the number of trips and thereby improve the service rather than spend all this money on something we don't quite know what's going on. This I say as an old friend of state funds and an old overseer with his share. I want a trust fund, and that's why I think it's amazing that men are all done, e.g. Here in this house, I'm not talking about in the Independence Party and the Supreme. Secretary of finance and his people, to give up 50 billion on this project just like that. In a talk earlier, I discussed how Iceland and I have had bad luck when big projects are coming along, that plans have not been made because of hurrying over. But there's one thing I'd like to say, too, because I mentioned why not just put a good old bus on these lines, that one of the most successful directors in Iceland, who is now the president of Kemri, Hermann Guðmundsson, has noted in a recent article that the city line is the solution of the 20th century and not the 21st century. He has pointed out that west of America, in narrow cities such as this, they are even using self - exhausted wagons on short ways associated with such routine buses to improve their ministry. Mr. President. I don't really understand why men don't explore this possibility instead of hanging like dogs on the redness of something they've seen in Copenhagen or Paris. [[The president calls.]] I'll ask the President, because I can't finish what I was going to discuss, to put myself back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u71	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill on clearance to establish an official transport building organisation in the capital area. We've talked about it today, and here we teach various grasses. In a previous talk, I reviewed my opinion of the committee as part of the legal committee. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin. He signed one and another with a greater proportion of the legal committees in regard to light control and forgeways as well as the better way for those who ride, walk, and move around, not on a car. An article with the bill says that the number of people in the capital area has increased, and, of course, driving has increased considerably over the past few years. But it seems completely overlooked that the reason why traffic is so blocked, as we all know, is also because of this construction stop. An attempt was made to attract people to the bus by adding extra funds to the Bus, but it has not worked. It is noted that continuing to travel will reduce the quality of life in the population and will reduce the effectiveness of the region. However, it is claimed that if people change their travels, bikes, or bus or city line, there will be less delays, thus improving the quality of life for the inhabitants. I may now find it a matter of fate to insist that the quality of life is better because it may well be that people just don't choose to take advantage of public transportation. It's okay to think about it a little. All of this is based on an agreement that is now known as a contract made by the Icelandic government at Reykjavíkurburg, Gardenville, Hafnarfjördur, Kóppavostown, Mosfellstown, and Seltjanarnes, the communities around us. This agreement was made a year ago, in September 2018, with an agreement on the construction of transport, public transport. There are Prime Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers and Economic and Economic Ministers who are signing up for this. Today, members of Parliament have been talking about the ransom that the city line is and should not be sacrificed to the Land of Christmas, and they have found that it was to be a journey without discussing with a king or a priest, as it says. The purpose of this legislation is to meet the commitment to this contract and establish this community that is to be held across the city line. That's quite below. Once again, the importance of priorities is important. It's amazing that here's a chapter or a few lines of consultation that I really feel are saying a little bit much, and I'm gonna get to read all the last lines: ▪ For example, the urgent need to contribute the bill to the Council was not consulted on the design of a bill in government consultation. It's all about the truth in this matter. - I'm waiting for the highest. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u72	Mr. President. In Comb 4. The bill on this public transport business is presented, with the permission of a president: ▪ The minister who handles the government's property shall take the place of the State in the company and implement the procedure of these laws. The local community in the capital area conducts an invitation to the local community. This is so explained in the report that a more detailed explanation will be made on each legal matter. It is, in fact, there. Take over the funding, the exchange between state and country. I wondered when I first read it, if it wasn't for sure that the Society that it is saved from a financial minister, i.e. The Ministry of Financial Affairs. I think it's very important that it's there because the state fund has such a big deal as it really is, or there's plans. It would be in my mind that the Society would be saved at the local, local, or any company with such factors, since it is very important that financial ministers at any given time have a particularly good perspective on the project, since it is expected to exceed their plans, and it is therefore important that a minister have his finger on his pulse at any given time. It has only been criticized that a minister of finance or the State could take the majority decisions on the government. In fact, it must be said that it is quite strange not to have been written into the bill at first and that it is important to correct it. A chairman should have double the value that made six human governments the chairman of the seventh vote really is. To me, it should have gone further. In view of the high responsibility of the government, at least Four of the six must be from the government. The rural community needs to agree on the division of government officials and their responsibility, but it's a lot less than the government's work, even though I'm telling you that it's the opposite proportion compared to those who really want this operation in the government groups, they're just following this case. I think it should have been that way, at least. 75% of government officials or votes would be with the government, but it can be replaced, of course. I've been thinking about a few articles and, uh, things, including... to the extent of uncertainty that exists around the situation. I discussed in my final talk that it was like an adventure. I am still convinced that it is. Of course, it's reasonable to assume some kind of margin at expense, but there's nothing in it. There's no talking. No hand-to-hand information in the information presented here provides us with information on how much this could work out and how it works, so I'm still putting up with it. I would also like to use the opportunity these last seconds that I have of this speech to stress that attempts to increase the use of public transportation have failed completely despite billions of miles into this project, and now I am going to try to force people to park their private car and use a city line. You wonder, " Why are the preeminent ministers of freedom and the self - determination of individuals, the Independence Party, taking part in such reckless conduct and having such a care at tables? ' [[The president calls.]] I wish to be put back on the rosary, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u73	Mr. President. I was going to make some comments on this bill. First, it says that the owners of the official community should carry out a social agreement. It seems that this agreement has not been made. It is expected that this will be done after the union has been formed. Of course, such agreements include commitments between parties, which should further explain the ways in which a person is going to work together and how to resolve any differences that might arise. How? It is also a question of whether the stockholder's agreement should not have followed the bill, whether or not the stockholder's agreement should have been established at the time of the bill. Wouldn't it have been better if it adhered to the bill instead of expecting it to be done afterwards? In view of the timing of the collection of Taquills, the bill assumes that income will be returned in 2022. I note that the design and construction of the roads will be completed at the time and that this project will have to be reimbursed in 2022. I think it's a little short of time because these projects will be designed, and they will be carried out. As I have pointed out in my previous speeches, then, the lack of a law code is totally in terms of charges. This is one of these big comments that we have made with our transport plan. That is where the dating of the tax concept is very fragile. It appears in a number of worlds of directors, but there is no complete statement on it. We have called for government activity. They should have done so before these fragile bills appeared. A healthy course taxation legislation should have been provided concomitantly. But this is not done. It's supposed to start backwards. This should be made up in various administrative matters that are due to be settled at this council when the tax concept has not been fully implemented. Here it is assumed that immediately after a year and a half, 2022, there will be a payoff on the capital area. I'm not sure people will realize how much time is needed. I'm also going to say that the hurryer seems to have been so great that it's forgotten to assume how to settle matters in the company's administration. Six sit in the board, and the committee has made a change of motion on the obvious point, but there were other things that did not work time because of the fact that when the bill is written, probably in the Ministry, the speed is so great that there is no time to publish it on the confidential talk, as is the custom with most basics to give comments to stakeholders, or people in general, before the bill is submitted to the council. But in this case, the hurry was so great that it did not have time to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u74	V.E.G. President. Various explanations, many of the fur, have been given what a city line is, the idea of the phenomenon, or where the idea comes from. Are we talking about a train or a bus? Will the city line be a vehicle on the tea or a long bus, driven by electricity? The city line requires stop stations where it is necessary to get people in, e.g. people in wheelchairs, people with walkers, broken arms going to hospitals, or patients on their way to land hospitals. A line system is perfect, since car ownership is low, pressure on public transportation is high, waiting at public bus waiting stations long, and dispensing for that amount of time. Of course, such systems can increase transport capacity. No one shares that. The problem with such a system here is that it does not exist in this country. The strain on the public transportation system is so small that it does not have a name at all. At the present time, it can transport 4◯5 times more than the customers are. So that's about one in 25 or 4% in times of stress. This says that even though the bus takes 12 to 250 percent of its traffic, as it already can, it hardly sees a hit on water. The city line is a very bad idea, and it comes from some dream of eco-friendly public transportation. She's going to cost a fortune. Today, 60 billion are hardly enough for the current loss of management. Then there are big cars, which spend 60 litres 100 miles instead of 45 today, not eco-friendly. A lot of people dream about electric cars. There is no room for storage, except on a roof that is very bad, of course. Perhaps there will be electrical lines that link the wagons, but that cost was not contained in questionable expense calculations a few years ago. At that time, carriages would be expected to be run with appreciation. In fact, major investments were put into a gas - building station. How does the country come to take advantage of the city line? Will there be a giant truckload in Mosfellstown and Red Lake so that people can keep their cars when they reach the capital? When the streets are fully squeezed, they cannot take advantage of them. The city's concept is followed, especially by those who live in the middle. What would the city council members say about this? But I thought of something else, too, the highest. President. Uncertain travel is very popular today, and the workplace and society often go on outings called uncertainty, and I have been involved in such trips. But it is always such a journey that you know that you will finally get home, confident that the traveling overseer prepared the trip so that it is usually arranged for a return time before departing. These trips are very fun, and often something fun happens on the way. In this case, however, there is an adventure in which the fuel in the tank is relatively low. Destinations are not prepared. No destination has yet been purchased. People don't really know when they're gonna get home because all of this is gonna go crazy. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. I'm asking to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u75	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to see you, and I hope to the highest. The president has followed my talks earlier as I traced the political nature of this case and explained why it is in the foundation of a socialist bill that aims to transform the community from social engineering or community engineering. I even put this into context with East Germany, and that was not without reason because this bill had been very familiar with the ideas of people there, and they no doubt were impressed with the extent to which this new transport has gone over all the development of transportation in the capital area for a long time. I also traced what the consequences would be. As always with societal experiments, they don't fit in well for everybody. In other words, moving everyone down is being done instead of following a policy, including The Independence Party, in Reykjavík City in the past, trying to improve everyone's interests, raise everyone a little higher, give people a chance to gain freedom, have a family car, have an apartment suitable for the family size, etc. Now, everyone in the city is to be forced by consumer management, put everyone in the least apartment with no parking lot, and ensure that everyone is not out of the line of the city and the rest of the bus system. Then I went back to the bill myself to argue further. I had arrived at chapter 3 of the report, but his signature is the key ingredient of the bill. I'm not going to read the whole chapter, it's not very long, but I'm trying to save time, so I'm going to go straight into a sentence that's just back in the chapter. It says, by permission of the president: Then 60 billion dollars are expected. will be funded by quick and traffic costs, while other funding costs will be considered in conjunction with energy exchange and will reviewing vehicle and fuel taxation. This shows that part of this is not just that the state is scraping and selling property in order to finance the release of the Union in Reykjavík but is also on hand to add new spells to the capital area, new taxes. But this adds to the fact that, as I am not mentioned here, the city has also received additional taxation power and has gone so far as to send the minister, the prospective minister of transportation, a letter that had already written how the branches of the law should be, and even to add the report. The city is naturally in poor economic condition, and although it should only finance a small portion of this fairy tale, she wants new tax returns, that the state will agree that the city can pay more taxes to its citizens at the same time as the state itself offers new fees. So that all of this, sales of estates, and new taxes, from both state and city, are to be carried out on this task that is urgent to complete, as shown in chapter 5, of the Council. At the end of that section, it says, on permission of the president: ▪ For example, the urgent need to contribute the bill to the Council was not consulted on the design of a bill in government consultation. This is the chapter on consultation, Mr. President, I remind you. In other words, the government doesn't want this matter to be discussed, they want to have as little discussion as possible. [[The president calls.]] - I'm waiting for the highest. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u76	V.E.G. President. We are still talking about public transportation in the capital area, which is financed to the shelter of the Independence Party to serve the mayor's disposition in Reykjavík. I don't know if the President has read the book The Amazing Results of Socialism, but it seems that the Head of the Independence Party read and believed that book. I was there earlier in my talk to cross phase one and two in the so - called city line. As it was supposed to speed up the city, I always found something mysterious that the first stage was to be from Cape in the northeastern, round the city, and end up in Hamraborg, Kópavogi, 13 miles [12 km] along the way. To me, this isn't fast. I reminded myself of one of my previous talks, and although the president is a great younger man, he may remember so far back, that there was a bus in Reykjavík where there were ways that weren't stopped too far, including. Skipping snooze, Route No. 13th Stop very rarely and were quick to leave. But this new slipper doesn't answer that call. 13 miles and 20 stops on the way, it's not over fast. I began to study Route No. 2. Then it began to grow to a greater degree. But, Mr. President, and I think I know a lot about driving conditions in this city, I don't see that on this road there's room for the so-called red carpet. Why the Independence Party agreed they'd be red, I don't know. I don't see that there's room for these pins, not at all. And where there is room for them, they will take the lane on both sides, absolutely, as e.g. ... Southlandway. That's all I see. And as I've described before, there's no room for a red carpet on Höffslótttótttir, and neither on Skavile Street, but unless you're about to break the bridge that we've got here in the right line of sight at the General Assembly Hall and even win the conquests to the top of the Tjörn. I haven't seen it, Mr. President, but I don't quite know what you're expecting to serve your spirit. I was there earlier that I told about this map that I found now, but it was in December last year that a group of 12 men began to operate on this project, and we were told, and I waited very excited and waited still, that today should introduce the seat at the hold. I've been so looking forward to it, Mr. President, but it doesn't hurt any more on the seats yet. It is not a good sign if plans fail to achieve a better outcome than the fact that the seats could not be introduced since December and to this day. That'll be deep on the Hafliði, so I'll be getting out of the saying, Mr. President, I hope I don't have a problem with that. I said earlier that according to here, there are in itself an excellent lines of Mosfellsville and down in Watermur, and from the mall, and from the south, in Kopavogi, and/or a crevice up to Breinholt. It's all right. I don't understand why men don't just put good old bus on these lines. Why would they put these giant vehicles on these lines instead of putting good old bus on them and then just keep their trips faster? I've tried to describe this to men and therefore to the chairman of the United States this morning, which is actually not here in the hall right now, but I can't tell you about that business unless I get back to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u77	V.E.G. President. During the past decade, traffic conditions in the capital area have deteriorated rapidly. That's what we've all come to realize. I traced it only in a talk just before that people have grown here and have not been built up in the area, e.g. has been called a construction stop, as long as the population and tourists have increased. Of course, changes in behavior and prosperity have led to an increase in the number of cars, and it is likely that motivations that equalize a little of the stress during the day can not be applied. Workplaces can even start their day-to-day work at different times, etc. I've been over it. However, the number of road transport is abnormally high, and most of us agree that it is necessary to work on the construction of transport supplies here in the capital area. The question, though, is always: What course should we take? We know, at least we here in this hall, that public capital is limited, and therefore we must make good use of it. We live in a rural land, which means that building the highway system needed by the people, but at the same time, a great burden for the taxpayers needs to be used carefully. In recent years, there has been a large increase in the arrival of tourists, and most of us wait for them to be seen again. But the increase has had a bad effect on the number of serious highway accidents. This is a bit bad because the annual cost of traffic accidents in this country runs at tens of billions of dollars. Clearly, construction of highways in the country must take place in order to reduce the number of accidents. In other words, the amount of money available for transport in the capital area is limited. Then, of course, I'm talking about a city line especially. When I talk about priorities, I hope this will end like Davíð's fight with Golíatur. Most, though, agree that there is a need for improvement in the services of the bus. That's the first step. There is talk of increasing the incidence of wagons. I think there's a lot in it, even though it's been tried with little success. I don't know if it's fully developed. The question is also how to proceed in the meantime, if we can say so, until we have made sure that people are generally interested in traveling with a bus. To ensure adequate traffic conditions here in the capital area, some of them need to be built up and cut. And there must be an increase in the number of wrong corners. It's just a fact. Another good thing about them is that they also increase the capacity of road transport and thus reduce the number of accidents. Moving a road into a deck does not do the same good, and it is also much more expensive. So it is not justified to go to the most expensive solutions when there is a more practical solution, except perhaps where the population is completely up - to - date. This needs to rethink and take the right course. I'm asking to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u78	Mr. President. I've been reviewing just some of the articles of the agreement that are listed in this bill on the establishment of a part of a community that Reykjavíkurburg, the local community in the capital area, and the state fund is going to do with them. The wealth is the owner of an object of 75% and the division of 25%. For a discussion of some articles, see the box "What Does the Bible Really Teach? " 7 and go. On page 18. 9 discusses Article 6. which says, by permission of the president: However, the article says that countries and rural areas in the capital area deal with the Society, where the role of the community is further determined by the structure of transport. In such a contract, it should include: The financial structure of the society, the man - made operation to the relevant operators as well as the provision of other assets at the breakup of the society. It is not based on the fact that the union as such is responsible for the operation of individual road users. Then you ask yourself, Mr. President, in what way this arrangement of property to the breakup of the society is carried out. There is no discussion in the bill, which is a natural fault. At the end of the Society's length, it is a valuable means of transportation, and you ask: Shouldn't it be done at total cost? There's nothing discussed here. I must say, Mr. President, there is a serious problem with this bill not to be mentioned. It also states around 6. that the company is assigned to at least 15 years, that's the period of construction, and it goes on to say: 'Counsels are expected to solve specific prognostic factors that may arise during the implementation period with an agreement.' It's a 15-year period. There are, however, some mayors and governments that are coming to this. The way this is supposed to be, there are differences in view. That is why I believe that it is essential that there be a particular way in which a person can resolve differences. It's just that they're going to solve them, that's all. There's a serious problem here. That was 6 g's. I'm going to step up on more articles later, but I'd like to make it a point that this urban project has been specifically discussed that building costs can be reduced by the appearance of a city line. It is likely that an apartment near a bus station needs less automobiles and thus reduces the cost of construction. It's a little farfetched, I think, but this is what's been set up. In turn, the city line requires a firm structure around the line. This has been criticized by a professor of organizational studies, Trausti Valsson. He has criticized it, saying that this building will be very unattractive. There is a need for it, and it is the material for long, and it has many talks to do just in general about the architectural barrier in Reykjavík and how attractive it is, there are many things to make up for. But that may be another story. This is a thought - provoking point, and it is vital that we determine how this building will be conducted along the city line. We don't need any more unattractive buildings in Reykjavík, so they say. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. The time is past, I heard the bell and see it on the red light, and I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-24-126.u79	V.E.G. President. The head of the Middle Party, what? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, came in earlier, in a chapter called the Synagogue. It is remarkable that the title of the chapter should be agreed when there was no consultation in it. He should just not promise any consultation or anything like that. Since this was so important at the General Assembly, it was not a matter of consulting the bill in the government's consultations. This is a bit of a poem that goes on at the General Assembly and often makes things a little bumpy. We do not allow affairs to take time to develop, develop, and get discussions with the public and the council. We see that in some other regional conventions, things take longer and more effort is needed. More solidarity or common results are more common in this area. It's a bit common for a person to get sore for a long time in his arms somewhere in closed rooms, and then he's gonna drive them through the council. Of course, this case is not meant to be that way. If you want to have some sort of reconciliation or agreement about this company and the plans associated with it, I think you need to work this whole thing differently. We will see how much progress the committee made when they took the time to discuss it and study it. There might have been even more time, giving it more space to make further peace. In many respects, however, this matter is very dangerous, especially for us who do not want to be trying to understand people in all creations. This indicates that changes in traveling habits are to be promoted. In other words, try to force people to use the wagons that will be there. Clearly, the only car or its potential to pass through the city needs to be pressed. However, the number of families that need private vehicles needed to get between places and drive children, etc., that we know most of them. And in view of the rapid and rapid growth of private cars, their rapid growth, and the population of the capital area as well, you can see an even greater speed of traffic, and COPes can accomplish all of this. Although certain transport improvements, e.g. As for founding courses and such, if brought to this matter, I shall admit, Mr. President, that there is not a thread in me that I trust more of the mayor's work to accomplish it. In fact, I think that by the tone that seems to lie in the air and is in this bill, there is nothing to say here that could really encourage the success of the project. I think, however, that rural communities around here should also consider the transport in the capital area. It's so amazing to see and read what some local agents have said and written. The Subcommittee of the Convention in Hafnarfjörður thought so, for example. until there was a delay in construction, which, of course, was not correct. It was a very casual procedure where they had been financed. I think it's been arranged in March. All kinds of exercises are used to dust people's eyes. However, these fine local representatives of the local community do well to ask themselves and answer the town's ultimate responsibility. What will this cost our communities at the end of the day? And how will these fine managers make sure that citizens get along with them reasonably unscrupulously, out of their rural communities and west onto land, north of the country, south of the country, etc.? Only a small portion of the problems that need to be solved will be solved. But the most serious thing, Mr. President, is that the taxpayers are being sent unpublished by the mayor's campaign in Reykjavík. And it is surprising that the Independence Party is involved. That's amazing to me.
