ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u1	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in the law of home loans to consumers and forced sales laws. The bill is that the character of a so - called key bill is now submitted to the current assembly, but it has been submitted twice. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the careful loaning of loans by contributing debts to mortgage loans. i.e. If you have despair of other means, take away your debts without obligation. The bill is such an important factor in distributing risks in real estate loans and in bringing domestic loans from the position that risks are one - sided on the hand of the borrowers. The bill seeks to provide protection for the households. Mr. President. The bill's forwarders, as well as here, aren't they? Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún Arnaddóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson, and Þógrá Sæmundsson, all of the members of the Middle Party. Remarks headed for the same goal as the bill have been submitted at least Seven times before, the last in my part at the 150th legislature and then in 149. The bill has now changed slightly, including in view of the indication in previous years. It is originally brought up to take the initiative of the household's Habitat Association, and it is based on the same arguments given to the earlier embryos that I have submitted to the last two councils, whereas a recent process has taken place in light of recent legal development. Mr. President. The bill suggests a modest change, but it can have great meaning for consumers in paying dues, resulting in loss of housing during an overhaul. According to information provided by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, cases affecting the survival of mortgages in the wake of forced sale among the most common people who can enter the organization and even be examples, according to their information, still require consumers to be paid full of forced sales. Where this is now required, 38th par. Law on home loans to consumers, No. 118/2016, for example, to offer alternative options before requiring an obligatory sale, it is likely that everything else will be fully developed before it is due to the fact that a creditor has no predictable means of living up to the commitments of his housing. In such cases, it is always safe to conclude that the terms of payment are automatically met in terms of the demolition of debt beyond the value of real estate, which is what this issue is about. Is it, therefore, to promote a more efficient solution that the remaining bets due to mortgages fall behind forced sales of consumer property, as well as which would share the risk of borrowing fairly between loans and creditors? Mr. President. A few words on the objective of this bill, but it is to contribute to a careful loan operation by bringing creditors to mortgages the possibility of giving away their loans, as it is called, i.e. If it is a possession, let it go without debts, if it is at the edge of the bank. The bill is such an important factor in distributing risks in real estate loans and giving domestic loans that there is a one - sided risk on loans. It is also the objective of the bill to contribute to the efficient implementation and implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and of the Council 2014/17 of 4 February 2014 for the loan agreements for consumers in the setting of home and area housing. On November 18, 2018, the General agreed that the European Commission's European Commission's decision on the recording of the EU contract would be lifted. The directive's regulations have largely been legalized in this country by the law on property loans to consumers, whom I mentioned earlier. In view of the indications that have been received regarding the implementation of the law, the aim is to further sharpen the rights of consumer consumers in this area, as I come here to a closer visit. President. A few words to explain the resources used here to achieve the goals I have described: With the bill this is suggested to legalize a set of values. This word has a Latin name in its seeds, datio in soluums, i.e. value in real estate loans. It thus reveals that demanding relationships and debt end in a way that differ from when faced with a demander's acceptance of other payments. In this way the bill assumes that the requirement for a reimbursement agreement on mortgages, where loans are guaranteed by mortgages in the purchased estate, will be agreed to to accept that the surrender of the owned property to him is considered to be a complete payment of half a debt equivalent to the full continuation of the commitment. It is decided, Mr. President, that this is a test only in need, e.g. When a credit card has been given to the creditors and the legal rights of demands to seek fully in its demand, it has been effective. In a report published by the 2012 International Advisor Society London Economics, for consumers in financial difficulties, the top priority value of such factors is discussed in detail. It shows that similar resources have long been available in many U.S. countries and have since crashed into Europe, particularly in Spain. In addition, in the European Commission guidelines of June 1, 2015, for the underdeveloped and underdeveloped sales, more detailed guidance on how to handle these matters is being carried out. Of these European rules, the candidate should be sufficiently moderate in such measures to the consumer. I would now like to take into account some of the needs of this law and its benefits. The need for legalizing measures, such as those recommended by the bill, was clearly seen following the 2008 financial collapse when the gang of the crowning labor fortunes caused the success of the loan agreements to become too much for the debtors. The success rate was comparable to the consequences of the plagiarismic loan agreements, which, as human knowledge knows, leaped from the dead. The lack of intelligence faced by consumers on the part of the government caused an unprecedented riot in the community that dragged behind them. It is necessary to learn from experience and to implement practical measures to prevent the recurrence of history. Getting experience from the financial collapse would greatly improve the level of debt loans in the manner of the bill. In addition to bringing about the necessary resources needed to cope with economic problems, the potential risk distribution would encourage loan institutions to pursue more successful loans. Thus, the bill is designed to make the interest of lenders and consumers put together beyond what is now defined by a consumer's being able to live up to the cities of his mortgage, and the value of real estate will not be much less than the value of the loan agreement. This would reduce the likelihood of the formation of real estate microspheres, such as those in the years leading up to collapse. In the long run, changing the environment in this respect led to careful credit work, all for the benefit of society. Furthermore, the reply of the Minister of Justice to the inquiry on forced sales and bankruptcy and the response of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to a request for forced sales and correction that occurred within the past ten years would have at least 9,195 individual property has been sold under compulsion or due to payment. This information was found in the answer to a inquiry I asked here at the General Assembly. No doubt more families have lost their homes by other means that no public number is available. Despite this experience, small defenses have been built in behalf of the households. As evidence of this, a report by the Minister of Justice, on the implementation of the Commission on the terms and laws of forced sales, at the 149th legislation, does not specifically indicate whether the lender has met the criteria of 38 gr. law on home loans to consumers in the implementation of forced sales. The bill aims to improve the benefits of these consumers. Mr. President. A few words about the legal implementation of this arrangement: This is to be considered, according to Article 38. a law on consumer mortgages is obliged to offer consumers resources, such as reimbursement or the financial change of loan, which could solve the problems of consumers before requiring forced sales. Thus, the lawgiver's will is to appoint a forced sale as a means of success in such cases and in any other way impossible, including the way to negotiate. When this is the case, the consumer's financial situation must always be incompetent in terms of debt and therefore it is permissible to provide a solution for such consumers, as has been attempted in the latter period, first of all, by law on how to adapt individuals, from 2010, secondly by changing the law of bankruptcy, etc., also from 2010, and thirdly by law on financial support to cover expenses for bankruptcy, from 2014. In such cases when all other things have been fully developed before forced sales are required, it can always be concluded that the conditions of payment are automatically met in terms of the demolition of mortgages beyond the value of real estate. Is it, therefore, that in such cases, there is a tendency to increase the effectiveness of a solution to the situation that, according to the bill, the principle that the remaining debt due to real estate loans will fall down in the wake of an forced sale on consumer's property. This production of the bill has taken into account comments that have appeared at earlier levels, including from the office of the agent's office of creditors with reference to the law on forced sales. According to 57th. 6 / 15 " You Are God's Ministers, " No. 90/1191, the bail holder who cannot meet the demands of forced sales may not require loans for the payment of his demand unless he can show that the market value at the time of the forced sale would not have enough to pay them. This can only be true in those cases when the sale of the retailed property is under the market value. If the price of gambling is also paid under the market value of the property, the provision will lead to the release of a debt. This is true regardless of type or type of requirement, whether legal or individual, of any debt. On the other hand, if the price of gambling is higher than the market price, a debtor may still owe as much of what was over the market price and have lost insurance on the property because of the forced sale. However, in the case of demands originally founded on mortgage loans to consumers, the principle of the bill here recommended would lead to the release of a debt. The bill, however, does not reach other species, nor does it reach its objective. Rather, it reaches only the requirements of home loans to consumers. So if the bill is legal, it goes on again with regulations of 57th. Invested sales, when demands are based on contracts for consumer mortgages. On the other hand, the law holds its value against other demands to form requirements based on the legal agreement on mortgage. In the 5th. The bill is suggested to add a paragraph to the 57th paragraph. This is explained by an arrangement for forced sales. In order to contribute to more efficient implementation of 38th par. the law on home loans to consumers is further proposed to provide specific changes in the laws on forced sales to make more sure that the conditions of that article are met and referred to until 2,565. par. The bill. Mr. President. In the face of these issues, it is not too difficult to call attention to a statement made by the City of Economic Associations, from October 6, where home is required to be protected from the effects of the Korean epidemic, as well as to an enterprise. The declaration says that no one, not one family, should be at risk of losing their home by Covid-19. They say that the home of the country is not the rest of its size but, rather, one of the local cornerstones. The Economic Organization stresses that governments learn from the terrible consequences of the collapse of the bank and that they defend their country's homes before the damage is done. In addition, it is natural, of course, to record this in this way when many people face a massive recession and loss of employment. The Management of Human Rights Association concluded that although many have been unemployed after the collapse, it was not the only problem of thousands who lost their homes after a collapse but rather, rather, of mutants on the mortgage payments, including those who lost their homes after the collapse. For insurance. This proved to be too much for thousands of families, despite the fact that people were working and working at them in an effort to cover loans. Moreover, the declaration states that as 12 years have passed, a prime minister asked God to bless Iceland, it is appropriate to remind him of the terrible consequences of inactivity and unthinking action by the government for the country's homes. The mistakes that were made then must never be repeated, says the Declaration of the House of Assession. This statement, which I have made for the subject, says about action due to the lack of virus, says that the management of the interest network requires that loans be given in accordance with the cost of Iceland's Central Bank. The organization says that this action would help many homes on its own. At the same time, they say that there will be an emergency sale in homes at least magazines during the next year so that the homes that most earn most of their income will have the opportunity to work out temporary difficulties in the shelter of the home. At the same time, domestic interests require that they, as the only neutral party in Iceland with expertise in the area of consumer protection in the financial market, be allowed access to all government decisions on solutions for homes. I'm here to agree with these wishes and requirements of the Human Rights Association. I can personally testify to the expertise there in this field. Mr. President. I have been able to provide information on the number of households taken from families in the wake of the crash, as previously traced. The answer to a question I asked about the importance of the index team, that in recent years it has been shown to be, in spite of being determined by the public office in town, regardless of economic views. For the answer given from the highest court, the bull's price load was borrowed. Secretary of finance, will be attributed to the housing team, not to the general prices the index was intended to reflect. There is no space here to trace all the proposals I have allowed me to live here at the Council on Defense in the interest of the households. However, it can be mentioned of a bill designed to narrow the index so that it will be history, and I'll discuss measures together called the index application, which include the decommission of housing teams, the elimination of the effects of indirect taxes as well as other measures. Mr. President. I've traced the materials, goals, and content of the bill here for a change in the law on home loans to consumers and on forced sales. It is clear that the world could be seriously exposed to the economic conditions generated by the global viral epidemic that has fallen upon us with great weight. It is absolutely necessary, Mr. President, to have adequate defenses in behalf of the homes. Here is a suggestion for a moderate but targeted action that in turn leads to smoothing the risk between the parties and the factors involved in increasing responsibilities and careful treatment of loans. This isn't just a matter of interest. It's a community interest issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u2	President. Thank you very much for this case, the goal is very good, with president's permission: The centre of the bill is to promote the quality of loans by bringing mortgage loans into the hands of creditors, i.e. The real estate, and if you hit the bank, walk away without debts. That's why it's called a key bill, people give back the keys if they've grown a empire, like a debt we've seen especially in the collapse, and these that were linked to a foreign currency. So people are not taking that risk into the future, so life ends. It can only give the keys, the bank owns the property, but the borrower gets off the table, can have a future. This is not a new idea. The 2013 Kingdom government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon, and the 2013 Bjarni son of Benediktsson, had this on his table. I'm thinking what the reality is behind this. I'm sure you will. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson wants this and would put his power into it, for he has done so by making the bill become reality. Nothing happens on its own. But I'm thinking of his supporters on the case. That's it. Councilmen Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, who were in the government with the key bill as one of their campaigns. Hv. paritaprevir In any case, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzz comes from the Independence Party, if I recall correctly, has supported him in some way. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason too. I have the campaign brochure that says, "The chance to start over." Those who cannot handle the payments of housing should be given the opportunity to separate the keys instead of bankruptcy. Then a government was established, and I was read the government covenant because I remembered it, and it is said that homes are in first place. The promise failed to cancel the insurance policy, and the key bill failed to pass, as promised. The rescue was achieved, not for those who lost their property, but for those who survived from the collapse. I had to fight the government to stop my forced sale now. [[The president calls.]] Who thinks what? Senator that the real will is in this? For the steps are afraid of the will of those who are in this matter, except perhaps at the right time. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for the counter-sponsored response. I'm very proud of my partners on the bill. These are selected men and well known. I'm also aware that I'm not the first person to have had a lead on a key bill at the Council. I couldn't remember who the number was, but I think I mentioned that perhaps for the seventh time such a bill is presented. It may have been at times before the two of us were brought here by the voters. Hv. A senator, however, has been here longer than I am, but I don't have a story about any past in the General or any governments that I had no involvement in and were not my responsibility. This case is, as I could tell, in cooperation with the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, and there is the great expertise I made here that makes it possible for the government to discuss these matters, I believe, as far as I could in my speech, that they do well in calling them to the table and to look for their viewpoints and tips, not just when things are ignored, but at first-levels. The real way in which this is gone is to change key issues, a certain article in the law on home loans to consumers, a law from 2016, and then to make corresponding changes in the law on forced sales. It's a very useful and very good bill, and I hope it gets the support here at the high Council that it certainly deserves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u4	President. That's exactly what I can tell you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson's story. When I came into this house in 2013, I had to, with the support of the Hagsam of the homes that taught me the status of the loans, the position of the homes, the position of those who were losing their homes, to fight the government of Sigmur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, now the highest. Prime Minister, and Bjarni Benediktsson, at present, at the highest level. Secretary of finance. I fought to stop the forced sales that eventually happened. But I had to come back and forth again into a pit, pointing out to my former justice minister, Birna Kristjánsdóttir, that she had the authority and even the authority to sue the consumers herself. I would not have known this except because the Human Rights Association had already worked and pointed out why I could come up here and put pressure on it. So the tracks scare a little bit. And then I'll see the Shoulder's will. A senator who brought it up, and then he did it. Senators Birgir Þórarinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, and Sigurður Jónsson. None of them were in the government, who failed to do the part in halting the forced sale, which was then made after a cloth and a plate of heavy pressure from the household's Aggressive Organizations. Insurance wasn't taken off as promised. The key bill wasn't finished, as promised. The survivors were the ones who could keep their houses, not the ones who lost them. And none of the senators standing by and on this bill are going to speak in this matter. It would be good to ask them here at the council Hall if they are serious about this and why they are not last to do it. This is what I'm trying to point out. That's the story. That's why I say the tracks scare.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u5	Mr. President. I have to say to what. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson is missing out on a story he's doing here. There are serious gaps in this story explanation. I'm gonna let me point it out. A senator, first of all, on the biggest blank, was the correction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u6	And who benefited from the correction?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u7	Correction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u8	Not the one who lost his house.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u9	Correction. [[Up front.]] The correction that Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, used men most and became a reality in a government he was leading.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u10	And did it well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u11	The correction even hid it. in her, except that she had financial significance for people, that she had fallen to make up for the stings of many people. It also included an important recognition that this insurance system had completely lost all ties. Of course, reviewing the story is fine. But that's what I want to say, and I want to draw attention to him. It's up to a senator. Of course, a senator realizes that even if members of the Parliament present a bill, it is not necessarily possible for them to recommend it. There is an agreement between political parties here at the General Assembly to choose three, four issues, which are so called emphasis, and the Central Party chose this case as one of their three or four priorities. [[Up front.]] That's why I'm measuring it here today because the Central Party, led by the men who suffered. A senator mentioned it. I think there's a lot of mind, and I think it confirms it, and so does the story, and then I return to the correction, that there's a lot of mind behind this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u12	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir Unsolved Ólafur of Ísleifsson, for a fine talk and for letting this important matter out of a loaded, so - called key bill. I want to use this opportunity as well as thank you for perseverance in this case, which has been committed several times by other members of the previous council, and the detailed and effective work that is behind the bill. And, of course, thanks to the World Health Organization that has also come to that work, and I want to use this opportunity here, but I am one of the carriers of this bill. As we know, financial services have a significant impact on the lives of individuals and households in the country, and it is the community's interest that consumers make well - informed decisions and are protected in a sufficient way by the purchase of financial services, especially so - called consumer loans, which have the highest mortgage. Houses are usually the largest income paid by individuals and households, and so far most people live in their own homes, and so - called special policy has been on land for nearly 100 years. The largest financial debt of the majority of individuals and families is linked to their housing, first in the form of debt due to the amendment of housing, which, if well, turns out well in the most important form of property in the future, and the number of mortgages is the biggest security, so to speak, in the business market. The bill says that there is an important factor in distributing gambling in real estate loans and providing national loans from the start that risks are one - sided on loans. It is extremely important, and the goal of the bill is to contribute to a more careful loan operation by extending mortgage loans to the possibility of paying off their loans, i.e. Depending on the value of the loan, the creditable property and the level of debt, as the bill puts it, will destabilize. The bill assumes that mortgage pledges are confined exclusively to property and therefore cannot be applied to other property of those taking mortgages. It is very important, Mr. President, in our mind in the Middle East to consider that this matter will be well conducted at the council and be approved, especially in view of the economic hardships our community has brought into because of the Korean epidemic and that the risks of forced halls will be increased as a result. It is interesting to consider this important subject in 2013 a report made by the Ministry of Presidency on consumer protection in the financial market. It provided suggestions on how to strengthen a person's position and residence in a financial market that is commercially advising individuals of consumer loans. Many interesting details are made in connection with this matter. It is necessary to improve and clear the position of individuals in the financial markets that lend individuals and to increase their responsibility for this group of consumers. And that's exactly what this bill is doing. In terms of the economic collapse in this country, there has been a significant debate about the position of consumers against creditors and particularly in financial markets. The collapse of the financial system here in Iceland and the consequences of it brought to light the weak positions of consumers with regard to financial companies and corporate practices in the leading of the crash were eutrophication and in the sections of illegalities, as the Supreme Court of successful success. Because of this, general dissatisfaction and distrust existed among the financial institutions and the general debt issues of individuals and homes. Mr. President. I'm the opinion, and I know we're most of the people here, that banks should be social institutions. They are to have moral standards. There is a lack of it, especially in the face of economic collapse. They are to be guided by respect and integrity to businessmen. It all turns to the public's confidence on banks. It is an increasing awareness of the need to strengthen consumers'protection in financial markets and the economic collapses of the public's trust in financial institutions. It was 7% in 2012 at Gallup's national pulse and 3% in 2009. Let us not forget that loans can also function as a specific safety network, i.e. to allow families to borrow while waiting for better conditions, when they have, for example, one. the loss of a job, the loss of health problems, or even the breakdown of a family. Important factors to ensure the protection of consumers in financial markets are healthy and normal business practices of finance and loan institutions, a powerful system that limits the risk of such activities to the public and public monitoring that ensures the implementation of the regulations. The main element of consumer protection in the financial market is that the financial system plays its role, is efficient and transparent, and healthy business practices are carried out. That's the main ingredient in consumer protection. The difference exists between consumers and financial institutions. We know that. This bill looks even more like the bill. to deal with it in a reasonable way. There is also the fact that financial institutions have certain expertise in the covert of professional loans. Then consumers are equally equipped to understand the risks of loan contracts, e.g. how to compare different products offered by financial institutions and often to underestimate the consequences of discrimination and violations of terms. In short, then, more demands will be made to care for the lender. Certain groups may find it harder to grasp the real and commitment involved, e.g. what is to be avoided and to be especially noted among young people who, in many cases, are buying their first property and taking their first loans. The 2013 Contestant Commission report, which subscribes to Vocational Economic Service, shows that the development of consumer protection in the financial market is important for the effectiveness of the market and competitive development. However, consumers can only provide competitive support if they are aware of their rights and price and quality of the ministry. Now consumer protection has to do with detailed information supply and transparency and is said to be one of the two main approaches to consumer protection in the financial market. The premise of an informed decision in the matter of borrowing is that there is correct and adequate information available both from the consumer and from the borrower. A credit agent needs to provide information on the cost of loans, payment programmes, interest rates and other factors, e.g. whether they are barriers to reimbursement, payments that are too high in Iceland, what it means if loans are insured, etc. The fact that borrowing is sufficiently enlightened about these important factors is of vital importance. I'm sorry, a financial market is marked by a few competition. At such a market, the largest firms may gain a collective market manager, which is marked by the fact that companies take mutual consideration for one another instead of taking pride in one another. No foreign banks are available in Icelandic markets, but they may be able to increase competition and, hence, improve consumer interests, and hopefully, we will not soon experience this as a result of a foreign financial organization. I think it's good and good for the Icelandic financial system, e.g. is far too high the cost of borrowing in this country. In many ways, because of the high financial cost of loans, as well as actual interest and annual expenses, consumers'financial status is worse than in neighboring countries. Although the present age is unusually low, it will not change in that long period of time. The Contestant Commission has defined the three major business banks in a joint marketing position in a financial market. So the three big banks are each a key part of the business. There's quite a small donation at the loan market here. In Denmark, an e.g. That's a hell of a lot more. There are other loan forms, e.g. so-called interest loans and possible loans with insurance cover so that loans do not exceed or exceed the agreed limits and risks of inflation thus distributed between loaners and loans. This is what is fundamental in this matter, distributing risks between borrowing and borrowing. Mr. President. I reiterate that I really hope that this bill is going to be passed during the council because it is very important, as I mentioned at the outset, especially because of today's social situation. There is a danger of seeing the increase in forced sales, many of whom have lost their employment and livelihood, and many families have become troubled. That's why this bill is really time and once again it's really well worked. I'd like to thank again and again an executive, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isdeas, for his good work on this bill, for he has great and good knowledge of this subject and experience. It is important that in the future there will be increasing efforts to prevent serious individual payment problems, such as increasing emphasis on prevention and other measures that include them. to the goal of increasing public financiallocks and reaching individuals before rejecting such a serious payment problem that they face bankruptcy. But it is also proper to do so, as the Bible says on page 19. 3 on the bill, assuming that this law will test only in need, e.g. When a credit card has been given to the creditors and the legal rights of demands to seek the full extent of its demands, it has been effective. You should keep this in mind. But finally, Mr. President, I'm going to say again and again that I hope that the case has its start here and then. Congress officials take positive action and do not stay in any aspect of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u13	Mr. President. Here is a discussion of a so - called key bill, but similar or similar bill has been submitted many times earlier at the General Assembly. Hv. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleusustsson will repeat it now after he made it his way to the last assembly. It was not granted then, but I have hoped that human eyes will gradually have opened up to the basics involved here. The bill has to do with the change of two layers, i.e. The law on forced sales and property loans to consumers. I'm an importer in this case, and I'm planning to swerve a few views and enter the discussion. When we saw tens of thousands of families being evicted from their homes, this bill was repeatedly submitted for a collapse. In view of conditions in society today, when national income can be expected to take a sharp swing, it can be said that the bill plays a role in some kind of security valve to prevent being chased by dogs after abduction. You see, it has not been enough credit institutions over the years to take care of people's homes, they are followed for years by the posts of the demands they usually consist of, and, of course, mostly by interest, tows, and fees that could not be paid from the value of the property sold under forced sale. It is fundamental to put a dot behind it when people lose their home. Not to be overlooked is the fact that people of every sort are being sought out, as is the case with major criminals, and experts in the museum, people who specialize in such collections, use themselves, and have all the legal rights to offer to hound people of no sort. Mr. President. Prior to the 2008 financial collapse, resources such as we speak in the United States have been adopted in many European countries. We have not, however, adopted this method of debt loans to consumers in Iceland despite bitter experience. I believe that the approval of this bill will greatly improve and guarantee the position of households in particular that some 9,200 individual property was sold in the country during the next ten years after the collapse of the bank, as noted, in response to queries. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson, the messenger of this bill, to the highest degree. Minister of Justice, Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. These figures reveal how the government in 2009 was neglecting their homes with these consequences, which is shown in these figures. We've got houses to be on. Mr. President. Do we need a case? Yeah, it's gonna take a big deal if you just look at these numbers. How has this been accomplished? There I speak from some experience as I worked on it for decades. The procedure after forced sales has been that the unsatisfactory demands, i.e. Those who do not fully receive their demands have continued to collect the requirements for the sale. Thus credit agencies have often hunted these people after their home has been sold in an forced sale. That's how people have been demanded of the loan post, even at the risk of the bet, i.e. The house, the real estate, has been sold. Really, we are here talking about responsibility. Until now, the responsibility has only been placed on the borrower. If he does not pay, borrowers will have a variety of resources, such as this, to go on the forced trade route, take their share or value for the requirement, and then continue, if something is often left behind, due to insurance, interest, labor, and debt costs, perhaps after years of forced sale, a shepherd not only has the debt but also has the property, putting him on a list with discomfort for the individual for years. We are also talking about where the risk lies. Then I'll come back to the responsibility and risks of the lender, the bank agency. The lender may loan 50% or 70% of the value of real estate in the first place. He thus takes relatively little risk because the loan can be raised considerably, and property can be raised considerably before he sees the real loss of part of his requirement unless he agrees to take over the breath or back and risk it. He does not take such risks; he is not given any responsibility when he decides to lend the individual. It's a matter of responsibility and risk to me. It is time for loan agencies to take some of the risks and the responsibility. Mr. President. It's simple. A loan agency borrows with a mortgage on property. The depositor can largely predict whether or not it will be sufficient, and there will be major events, such as the huge decline in real estate or real estate, which will result in some loss to the lender and usually a loss at other expense, such as the cost. in collections, tolls, and costs usually fall in late stages. At the last phase of the collection process, demand is rising very rapidly. The demand may be even more modest, perhaps a year later, but everything that is added grows in a very different way. That's what we're talking about. Is it justified that it will stand outside if the borrower has taken the risk of borrowing very high into the mortgage of real estate? Is this justified? I say, "Yes, we have to take responsibility for a lender too." He must take some risk from his actions and decisions. There's nothing too much to ask. Mr. President. Learn from the nations that have adopted the same rule as that bill. Let's take responsibility for more backs. The back of those who lost their homes is broken after the last shovel. Do not let that happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u14	V.E.G. President. I'd like to come up here to speak a few words about billing the law of real estate loans to consumers and forced sales. This is really the so - called key bill that has been submitted many times before, as mentioned in the debates before. Senators. In fact, it's recycled, corrected, and a very careful bill as a 1st transporterr, h. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isleus, spoke earlier. It is primarily a bill for defense of the homes and, as we have seen, for the benefit of society. The single-sided risk of borrowing for many years is only changed in this bill, and we can say that it puts the borrower at risk. In general, borrowers are in a very weak position toward lenders. It's just been that way, and often it's been a real dissatisfaction. This is unfair, since, of course, there is borrowing, regardless of whether it is in borrowing or borrowing because of real estate, one of the biggest investments a family or a person usually assumes, a contract between two parties. And negotiations should make it clear that each one benefits. But the moves scare. Now that we're in a crisis because of the Covid-19 virus, unemployment has increased and probably will continue to increase. That is the ability of those who are paying off my loans, and I don't talk about those who become unemployed. Therefore, those of us who contribute this bill feel it is necessary to pass through. Inflation may not have started, but it is still over the inflation target. They are 2.5%, but inflation is above 3% and approaching 4%. We can't quite see what happens in the immediate future, but as the situation is now, at least things are becoming very serious economically. That's why it's very important. Although the original - language bill went very well, I just want to grab a few things. This report, by permission of the President, says: In accordance with information provided by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, there are cases that deal with home loans after forced sale among the most common people who are now entering the board and even cases that consumers are still required of suspected posts, even though they have been fully paid for their forced sale. This is exactly what the bill is about, i.e. the cut should be cut when the key is returned. And only on the objective of the bill that says, by permission of the President: The primary objective of the bill is to contribute to the careful loan operation by contributing debts to mortgages, i.e. the possibility of handing over loans. The real estate, and if you hit the bank, walk away without debts. That's exactly what I was saying in other words just before that. So only on the need and benefits of the law, by permission of the President: The need for legalizing measures, such as those recommended by the bill, was clearly seen following the financial collapse in 2008 when the gang of the crowning labor cash, causing the success of the loan agreements to become overpayed. The grappling effects of the gang's success resulted in comparable consequences to the price of loans. The lack of intelligence faced by consumers caused an unprecedented riot in the community that followed. It is essential to learn from experience and to implement resources to prevent the recurrence of history. Getting that experience would be a great improvement in strengthening the status of the debt of real estate loans in the way the bill calls out. In addition to bringing about the necessary resources needed to cope with economic problems, the potential risk distribution in which credit institutions are encouraged by the loans - an excellent word - to pursue quality loans. My understanding of the word is that if you are motivated, you go further to the work that is necessary. I'm not gonna have this any further. As I say, the bill has been clearly explained by the original - language audience as did the above - mentioned speakers. I hope and believe that the bill will be successful and will be legalized by the High General Assembly so that the government's defenses against loan institutions will be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u15	A respectable president. The finest suggestion here is, so-called key bill, and I can see nothing more than to support the progress of that case of course. There's been a loud call from the community since a collapse, and several times it has been tried to pass, but it hasn't walked. I personally have an additional idea for a bill like this, which means that only the mortgage could be covered. If I buy an apartment and take 80 percent of the money, I'll bet 80% of the mortgage. If this is done by forced sales or other items, it is assumed that only 80% is borrowed from the items it is provided. I always keep my 20% share, there's a difference between us. This means that I would always keep the deposit I put in the apartment in the first place. There would be a step for people to move forward if they were in trouble, at least Once, that they are not offering their initials, too. A Conspiracy proposal was adopted at the beginning of the 142nd Council, which was the summer council during the ultimatum period of 20136/2016. This was one of the government's priorities at the time, and it was adopted by several members of the council, the Supreme Court. The president of the council was just the chairman of a committee. The proposal included Details of key bill to finish and win well. By this, the government groups elected votes and a number of others, it was adopted by 31 votes, but 12 did not vote, and 20 were absent. It's just as it goes and happens, it was actually the government that approved it. There were some proposed changes to the case, e.g. An adjustment from Sigríður Ingibjörg, the Ingadóttir of Ingavóttir who's been dropped. She wrote about setting up a specialised group that should prepare a bill for decommissioning insurance on consumer loans. The current chairman of the Central Party and then president of the Organization, then the prime minister, rejected this adjustment proposal, which is very interesting compared to present politics. You wonder, then, who is now in the government and who followed this proposal that included. Within a key bill, what will happen to this case. I hope it goes all the way through. I would be very interested in paying special attention to this matter in terms of the past and the history of this part of the matter, which was settled at the 142th Parliament. That interpretation is a prenup. It was completed at the 146th Parliament with a report by the prime minister then, saying that five prime complains had been prepared and submitted to meet the requirements of the Senate arrangement adopted at 142th Congress. Among those primes was not the key layer sentence bill, which is interesting. I think it plays in a very interesting way into the legacy of the crash, into the present situation and the possibility that if the economic situation continues to exist and the situation does not improve, it is definitely needed something like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u16	Mr. President. First and foremost, I would like to thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place here on this bill and perhaps start by thanking the last speaker for his interesting ideas and tips as soon as I thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for giving me an occasion and an opportunity to present this case to you because it's a priority on the Central Party. Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson recalled that this matter or similar matters had already taken place. This is the third time I've done the case, but it's somehow different from what it was in the past because it takes into account more recent legal development, as suggested by the bill, and in its own way, it is joined in European legal procedures, as I have been able to do in my introduction. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children also laid their hands on them. Emphasize what he called prevention of financial problems. It is a very important part of everything and is to agree with it and to strengthen the right of consumers in this field and, in fact, to strengthen the position of consumers in general. The bill is very strong in that direction. Then I must say that it was very interesting to listen to what happened. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautaç here measures his long official experience as a businessman and chief of police, how he directly described how he himself had watched people being hunted by the demands of the home after its release and had been offered up. That is really not acceptable. The bill is a natural key bill, and it's about that once people have given up the fight for the bet, as it's called, i.e. The house, if not required. It just gives the keys and it's over with. Mr. President. I'd like to say here that we have good reason to raise defenses in behalf of our homes. The experience from the collapse speaks for itself. The land was covered with insurance, devouring, and burning homes from under the people. She was working 24 hours a day while the people were sleeping. Because of the arrangement we have here, the thousands of parents were allowed to take their children to their side of the houses. That's why, Mr. President, except for this key bill that I'm moving here for the third time, I have offered further suggestions, including. ... aboutwhat I'm calling a wiretap against the insurance policy. It is very important to be carefully included in what is called a dissertation file, what it takes to push you financially into such a list of living things. Also the operation of a financial information agency. There's a report on the housing team that I don't know to have been discussed here. There must be a time when this report will be discussed. Court rights and adequate defenses are essential. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u17	Mr. President. Transporters of this bill on changing unemployment insurance law, No. 54/2006, No. 88/2003, with subsequent changes, are in addition to the ones listed here. Councilmen of the United States, Logi Einar Einarsson, Elíasdóttir Friið Furfjörg, Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, and Helga Vala Helgadóttir. In this country, a total of 18,443 unemployed persons received unemployment improvements from the overall improvement system at the end of September, while 3,319 had a reduced work rate according to a partial improvement. This is stated on the website of the employment agency. All of these were 21,762 individuals. These numbers are not the ones who are now on notice, so unemployment is likely to increase in the near future. I'd like to, Mr. President, only check the unemployment standards as they appear in a land area, for it is fairly clear that the burden of the pandemic falls on the part of the country. For example, in September 8, 8.4% in the South, in the East, there was 5.2%, 6.6%, 3.8% in the Northern West, 3.7% in the West, 6.3% in the West, 19.6% in the Southside, and 10.1% in the capital area. That's a total of 9.8% unemployment in the whole country. When the figures on the work agency's page are considered better, and after land and sex, it is found that in all areas of the country, except in the capital area, women are out of much more work than men. There's not much difference between the capital area. It has 9.8% of men out of work and 10.3% of women. The greatest difference between Southnes is 22.5% of women are unemployed and 17.7% of men. In the South, 9% of women are out of work and 7.9% of men are in the East, 6.3% are women, and about 4.5% are men. That's the way it is, and the difference in some places isn't much. But as I said before, the relative unemployment among women is more in all parts of the country than in the capital area. This is of interest, indeed, because women's professional parties were lower off. Thus, the problem of both sexes and the country in general is actually more apparent to women in this commercial crisis. Full - time pay is about 800,000. a month, according to the figures of Iceland's Haust on pay for 2018, and in Iceland there are unemployment improvements in salary rights. The design is based on baseline North American equalism and was established here by the labor movement and political groups that took the fight for the common people. Unemployment insurance is a national-interest policy, regardless of how you look at it, also in terms of economic goals. Basic non-employment is now 289,510k. per month. In addition, each child is less than 18 years of age paid 11,580 k, or 4% of basic non-employees. With the Law No. 37/2020 were raised by each child to 6% to December 31st, 2020, or 17,371K. They made it the Conspiracy's proposal. Mr. President. The United States produced a number of suggestions for changing the interests of the worst in this pandemic. It was the only motion that was approved, but it did. The situation is, however, that people who have established basic employment benefits need three children to achieve the minimum wage insurance according to the biography agreements. Each person sees that homes in the country that have lost a lot of money and that they have lost a lot of money. Tax-related unemployment improvements are paid up to three months at the beginning of each rest period of 30 months under the law. The Chef-related period has been extended temporarily to six months since September 1, 2020. But all those who received basic employment benefits for that time will receive only three months of income - related benefits. With the bill I recommend here, it is intended to ensure that all persons who were unemployed on September 1, 2020, will receive six months of income-related improvements, including the duration of the period of an incomprehensible and illogical discrimination remain unchanged. 1,2,000 people were working on basic work benefits in August. Many times it was pointed out that they were being left behind. They did not listen, and the discrimination is passed. The government's bill is not still intruding to correct and stop this discrimination. But it has to be done, and we'll go to the Union with this bill. The maximum financial level of income-related unemployment improvements is 456,404k. per month. Thus, improvement in the level is of little value to the overall picture in the period of unemployment. By tax, we have 242,700 dollars basic non-employment. and income-related improvements can increase to a maximum of 348,500. by tax. These figures show that the financial harm of a person who loses his job is significant and greatly affects the business of his family and his family. The part-authority process enables employers to maintain recruitment relations with their employees. The bill suggests that the criteria will be reduced back to up to 25% work ratio, which may be important for employers to maintain recruitment relations, e.g. Four persons with experience and knowledge within a company, instead of two, will receive the law to remain unchanged. The part - time improvement route is extended to June 1, 2021, since it will obviously take time to rebuild your work after a severe economic crisis, but it is very important to achieve good resistance. This ensures that companies can maintain employment contracts with as many workers with experience and knowledge that can restore their work at a short time. Obviously, the person who needs to earn money on unemployment will significantly reduce his consumption. Thus, much and long - term unemployment also has negative effects on economic demand, which again reduces jobs. The crisis following the Covid-19 pandemic is more intense on those who lose their jobs and their families. Basic non-employment is much lower than minimum wage and minimum insurance. In order to spread the stock market, the number of downloads of the bill is very important that the income-related period is extended by three months for all, the basic non-employment improvements are increased by 95% of the minimum and the right to unemployment insurance length by one year. In addition, each child's contributions will be increased permanently and the partial improvement pathway will be extended to June 1, 2021, with a warrant for 25% part - time work. Job's loss is more serious in crisis than in good health. A number of people lose their jobs at the same time, reduce their jobs, find other jobs more difficult to find, and increase the likelihood of long - term lack of work. Poor social and health effects of long-term inactivity are known. They are expensive for families and society all. In time, more and more jobs will be needed. It'll take time. The cost of employment, however, can be raised immediately. It is important that jobseekers find a job in which their education and experience are most useful. Otherwise, valuable education and specialization may be lost. It has been claimed, including by the organization of the economy, increasing unemployment rates, and so it is important to maintain unemployment. When thousands of jobs are reduced in a pandemic, causing serious problems in the largest nation's industry, such claims are clearly wrong, Mr. President. No new jobs will be made by creating distress in the homes of those who lose their jobs in these circumstances. In addition, research shows that unemployment is no more in countries where there is strong unemployment insurance. Much of the money the state uses to raise unemployment insurance comes directly back in taxes and increases in economic activities. Mr. President. We in the United States want to distribute our burdens. We feel that there is really no room for society to let those who lose their jobs in this pandemic carry the weightiest load. Of course, we should lighten up with them, and we suggest that it be done in the way I have studied here. We're supposed to get over the game, and we're supposed to be with those who are in a lot of trouble and who've suffered a major loss of income. And we are to look especially at parts of the country and of our societies in a crisis. For example, if the 12,000 who had reached a basic non-employment in August and had only received a three-month income-related period in which there were only three months' pay period. as a whole of people at good purchases, the cost could be just under 5 billion in ensuring justice that everyone would receive a six - month income - related period, not just some as the government suggests. It can never be more expensive because there is a peak of income-related benefits and we know what basic non-employment is. When we look at the billions who have gone to fix the economy of our enterprises, which we in the United States probably feel are doing and must be done, these 5 billion are not a high sum in this context, i.e. to ensure equality among those who have lost their jobs and who do not care when someone has lost his job. Mr. President. I suggest this bill goes for what? The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u18	Mr. President. We're here on bill for the legal adjustment of unemployment insurance laws and remuneration laws, in which the Group of the United States operates entirely. With the bill, it is intended to ensure that all persons who were unemployed on September 1, 2020 will receive six months of income - related improvements, for they cannot be properly separated or reasoned on the differences that would be based on the criteria. Most of the money available is familiar with the discussion. The peak of income-related unemployment improvements is over 456,000. per month. Thus, improvement in the level is of little value to the overall picture in the period of unemployment. According to taxes, the basic non-employment is almost 243,000 taps. and income-related benefits over 348,000. These figures show that the financial cost of a person who loses his job is great and has a devastating effect, as it were, on the business of each family and family. As indicated by what happened. A vehicle, as well as a paper with the bill, is the average pay for full - time work at around 800,000 k. in a month, according to the values calculated from the Hagroom. So it's a lot and it's a big shock. I don't think it's necessary to fantasize about the opinion of the majority of people of unemployment, which is in the mind of each person's tragic, major trauma and lot that no one wants to live on. Unemployment is something that all of us agree that we must fight against all the power we are given. Mr. President. In any case, we should not use the unemployment relief system as a punishment against those who suffer the trauma of losing their job. That's not what we do. We have other and better ways to increase the motivation to work, we have active labour market operations, corporate recruitment grants, training contracts, and other closely linked resources. There are all kinds of ways and we're setting out for the very responsible way in our document. Of course, the Icelanders know unemployment in historical terms. Of course, the next thing in time, in the minds of most of us, is the economic collapse over 12 years ago. Economic problems have led to widespread consequences. In Iceland, as in many other places, unemployment grew, creating circumstances that are still fresher than ever. The consequences of unemployment can be severe, and individuals and families and the community as a whole. Unemployment can affect physical and mental health, along with a lack of social status and network. Since the world crisis in the early part of the last century, studies have proved this to be true. The effect is greater in certain groups than in others. Young people react to such situations in a way that is different from old people, young people, and young people. Sad to say, unemployment may first strike young people who, in many cases, do not operate in special jobs, suffer from those who have general jobs. How these people become angry with them depends on whether they have the advantage of learning-related resources and the social and social networks. It has been noted that men, especially men, of 30 to 1955 years of age and those who are in a state of spiritual poor health, spiritual weakness, are more likely to lose their jobs. That is why it is so urgent to use resources early for unemployed ones and to deal with the spiritual pressures that come with the traumatic process. Mr. President. Six months without employment is defined as long - term workaholics who are successfully dealing with this material, which should be defined after a short period of time. The shocking impact of unemployment on people's confidence is that after a period of time, these individuals often gave up their job search and the exclusiveness of society. A lot of work has been written on unemployment and Icelandic people have actively participated in it, and Icelandic scholars and researchers have studied these items from many viewpoints. Most of them have the same well. Results show that unemployed is important in maintaining effectiveness through studies, training, counseling or other means of living and maintaining social networks. In our own responsible way, this tithe means that we are important in the circumstances in which we live. One of the most concerned things is to worry about money, and in most cases financial worries take place after the loss of a job. Some studies have been conducted to determine whether there are gender differences between people who experience unemployment and appear to be quite different. For example, following the failure of the bank, in a larger context of viewpoints and studies, measurements in the United Kingdom were shown. that male spirituality was worse than unemployment women, as noted earlier. However, women were more likely to see the opportunity for unemployment, e.g. increased co-administration with children. However, this was only true if the women did not experience much economic anxiety along with unemployment. However, a study conducted in Sweden and Ireland showed quite a different outcome, with professional sex involved. That's a big part. In Sweden, women's professional parties are excellent. The results there showed that unemployment has the same negative impact on women's mental well - being as that of men. In Ireland, women's professional activities are lower than Sweden, where men'mental well - being was found to be worse than that of women. Then, in the United States, another study was conducted. She showed that unemployment not only affects the spirituality of men and women but can increase the likelihood of unemployment. Mr. President. So again the subject of this good bill, our important bill in the United States, is a reason to correct and reiterate once again that Iceland's community faces unprecedented conditions. We focus on the temporary situation, and the point is that we are going to get our way through this scrap. It has also been encouraged that under special circumstances, we need special resources. In this very situation, it is wise that we all scatter our burdens. Inconsistencies follow these conditions, that's what the story tells us. Achieving unemployment improvement, then, is a practical tool that is necessary to achieve the goal of inhibiting restrictions from hammering. Let's be absolutely clear that people have the right to unemployment insurance, which goes beyond any opinion about the financing of unemployment insurance. In the end, the State is always responsible to make sure that these rights are respected, and it is against the norm to suggest anything else. We can raise unemployment rates and reduce insurance fees as long as it's economically reasonable. Mr. President. Covid's crisis hardens on those who lose their jobs and their families. Basic non-employment is much lower than minimum wage. In order to spread the stock market, the transporters in this bill consider it extremely important that the income-related period be extended to three months, the basic non-employment rates increased by 95% of the minimum wage and the right to unemployment insurance length by 12 months. In addition, each child's contributions will be increased permanently and the partial improvement pathway will be extended to June 1, 2021. This is the bottom line, Mr. President, and the candidates of this bill believe that the red thread is well understood and that a position is reached here at the high General Assembly for responding according to the material and distributing its burdens in the difficulties we struggle and touch the entire nation, that we fight against the party and the torment that now knocks, which is inflexible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u19	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize social security legislation, No. 100/2007, age-related microenergy supplementation. The movers in addition to me are Sæland Gourand and the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. The bill reads: - Uh-huh. - After 1st mg. Twenty-one. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: When the right to biodegradation to the decapitation of a pensioner begins, the right of age-related biofuels should remain unchanged. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ The bill was previously submitted to the 150th legislature of 294 C.E., but it made up a committee as if it were going to be a lot of good subjects. When a micro-energy pensioner becomes 67 years old, i.e. closer to the age of the right to start a pension, his right to an age - related disability supplement will fall. At this point, the person's pay is limited to the amount of age-related microenergy supplementation. This impairment plays a major role in the provision of disability and is a major burden to them. Depending on how young a person is treated when evaluated for 75% disability, the evidence of paying age - related disability is that the recovery of the individual is long - term. Whether 66 or 67 years of age is valid, the evidence is that with ever improved medical science, people's efficiency has increased well beyond the age of 67. Those who are employed can use legal resources to take half of their pension or take advantage of their pensions, but those who are unable to do so do not enjoy such resources. Therefore, the age - related microemissions should not fall at the beginning of the pension period. A respectable president. If we look to the age - related energy exchange, the figure is 577,296 k. every year or 48,108 k. per month. Vacation limit is 2,575,220 k. 214,602 k. per month. The payments drop at 4,84,404 a year or 407,034 a month. Twenty-one. The social security law on date-related microenergy supplements, says, under the permission of a president: To those paid for a micro-energy pension, the universal biodegradation of microspheres is facilitated. 18th par. or a full biofuel of disability under social security legislation. In addition, age - related micro-replacement support is paid to those who receive a resuscitative pension according to social assistance laws. The terms "separation " apply to the arrangement 1. mg, sr. 2. mgr., 2nd matter. 4 mg. 5 mg. 18th par. for farm time, disability assessment and loss of income. Budget replacements, cr. 2. mg, based on the age of the first individual assessed 75% microspheres. 1st and 2nd. 18th par. or an accident insurance law or a social security law meets the conditions of 7. Law on social assistance. Trying to understand this shows black on white how ridiculous the Social Security Act is now and how huge a piece of buttock monster they are. I repeat these sequences just to show how ridiculous in itself all laws have become; the amount of supplementation is the law of 1. mg, sr. 2. mgr., 2nd matter. 4 mg. 5 mg. It's amazing how this is set up. But it says: The height of monthly age-related disability supplements, cor. 1st mg, should be the proportion of non-invasive monthly microbiography at 18th par. And for the day of her birth, as it were. The following information is available on the part of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? It is not so simple that everyone receives 48,108k. per month. If you are 16◯24 years of age, you will receive 100% age-related supplements or 48,108 k. each month, but then the amount begins to get systematically damaged. By the end of the year, it has reached a volume of 1,3370. At 34 constitute 35 years of age, she's 21,649k. By the time we're 40 to 45 years, there's a tremendous decrease, it's 7,216 bucks. or 15% of the original amount. At 1,955, this has arrived in 3,608k. and at 6,666 years of age, this is 2.5% or 1,203k. It tells us a simple story that those who receive age - related disability are those who are young or are born into the disability system at the age of 18 and are therefore often the worst in the system. In effect, this age - related exchange is, in effect, largely, in this group of pensioners. That is why it is quite inexplicable and incomprehensible that by becoming 67 years old, these individuals will be healthy in the administration of the State. But we know that it is a long time before they will be healthy at 67 years of age. It is more likely that at 67 years of age their health is much worse. As a result, they have a far greater right to receive this amount, 48,108k. for tax. In the context of the fact that these disabled individuals or paralyzed persons receive this amount, we must also realize that this group is the least group to get a job. And why? Yes, because, as shown in the answer to a question being made and made clear, the state does not even employ disabled individuals or motorists at work. As a result, they have the lowest chance to increase their income. If they try to increase their income and get a job, the payoff rate is 109,000. It has remained unchanged since 2007, it has been very long since it was raised. No, probably 2012, but that doesn't make any difference that if you were given it correctly and if it were given the holiday goal, it would have been calculated as if it wasn't under 200,000 bucks. They're just taking 100,000 bucks there. which are missing, not only taxes of 37% or 40%, but also of 45%. So this group also gets a gigantian impairment. This group, too, has been caught in the ultimatum that has caused and was badly affected by failure to receive those increases, much less pay. There's something that's not available for this group. As a result, he has also been left for most of the Covides. We're supposed to show our dignity in making sure that these people, like I said in the beginning, have the least chance of earning money and having a pension fund -- we're supposed to think this is their pension fund. That's not a lot of money. These are kind of low amounts, and if they were right, they would need more, when they are 67 years old, and they're that old. Based on their disability and disability, there is no question that they need more than this age goal. Sadly, though, as I said, the government seems to think that by the time people are 67 years of age, they have been blessed so that they can only be healthy and walk again. It's not. I really hope that one more trip doesn't have to be done. I refer the case to a welfare committee, and I hope that they will receive it, and we can get it in here and finish it because this is one of the things that embarrass us at the council, that we should not have done something about it. We are to make sure that this group really gets what is right in their own eyes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u20	A respectable president. I just want to briefly state support for the situation. Another might be strange, since I have the privilege of being a co-smoother. Théoden Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson, mentioned earlier, and Inga Sæland. I thought it best to come up here and mention what I always notice when discussing these matters, i.e. how is it generally viewed as a matter of disability and of the elderly as being left over. When there is an ongoing battle for the rights of these groups, it is the attitude, apparently, from the government at any time, and from those who eventually make the decisions, that this is not really a serious problem. Like what? paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson did well earlier when the social security system was extremely complex. It's incredibly complicated. It's so complicated that it's so hard to describe, and I just challenge the audience to try to get to the bottom of how a few things work. It is striking that the few people you meet in this job that seem to have a real understanding of it are the clients of the system, who have the knowledge of the system that concerns them. Perhaps there are no more diverse groups in the world than poor and disabled people, there are different circumstances, and there are also very different conditions. So the expertise needed to gain a proper understanding of the system is amazingly great. That alone is a problem, for it makes it difficult for us to fix it even when we have every desire to do so. I also think, and put it forward, that among the reasons that the social security system is treated as if it's always just some sort of parka to want to change it. It gets fast, and it gets really complicated, and it is beginning to talk about situations that each member of the Parliament may not see himself or his person as close as possible in a day - to - day way. We must overcome this attitude, and we must take these matters seriously and stop viewing the social security system and its clients as leftovers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u21	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. The bill is now delivered for the third time, based on the bill of the Constitution that two-thirds of the voters agreed that a new constitution for Iceland should be proposed in 2012. The bill is brought by members of the Pirata Groups, Groups of Groups, Groups of Groups, and Flocks of the People. Outside council members, Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjölóttir. With the bill, he wants to pick up the cable, which was removed in 2013 when the new constitution was inserted into a drawer. The bill might be said to be a status document, but it shows where the matter was true when the council gave up the matter in its own time, e.g. into the text adjustments made from the leading committee board of administrations and monitoring committees from that time. The objective of the bill is to put together a complete document of all the work that has gone into the new constitution at the General Assembly. This, in our opinion, is the preferred approach to continue the treatment of the matter in a democratic manner. So we present this handsome document to play. A respectable president. Iceland is a democracy or Iceland should at least To be a democracy. But what kind of democracy is it that a council and a government are worth disregarding the decision of a national law? The answer is that we cannot, in good conscience, say that we live in a democratic state when governments refuse to comply with the decision of national law. Today, opposers of the new constitution often hear some argument that it was just a schemed national action. I'd like to remind these same opposers that Bgreit was also the adviser of a national hearing, but a British Senate didn't think to ignore its conclusion, though the conclusion was contrary to their minds, for the United Kingdom is but what. Author Halldór Armand Ásgeirsson described this in a distorted view of the opponents'adviser of national law, very well, in recent psoriasiss on RUS, where he said, by permission of the president: The Council sought the people's advice on a new constitution but forgot to let them know that the idea was that counseling was negative - that should be the opposite of counseling. The national agreement was unique worldwide in that the purpose of it was to find out what the nation wanted but then to do the opposite. If the people declared in their counseling that they wanted a new constitution based on existing proposals, that would not be done. A respectable president. Of course, every sane person sees that these reasonings do not hold any conclusions. It's just not an option to ignore the advice of a national law in a democracy, dot. President. In some cases, it has been claimed that the new constitution discussed here is in some way the revolution of existing constitutions. It's not. It's timely and appropriate update. It can be found that nearly 80% of the old constitution remains in the new one. This constitution contains a number of legal benefits for Iceland, including A better human rights protection than human rights protection is one of the most important roles of the Constitution. Hence, a board of directors at one of their first meetings decided that reviewing the section of the Constitution was one of the main tasks the Council wanted to take over. The emphasis on human rights in the new constitution may be best seen by the transfer of the human rights grip from the WCII. to II. section and so is in the new constitution, after the basics. The human rights section of the current constitution was updated at the same time as the European Convention of Human Rights was legalized here. These were no. 97/1995, which included a great improvement in the protection of human rights in Iceland. The human rights section of the Constitution has remained motionless since, in spite of the much and rapid development that has followed in the community. The Internet and social services have transformed our community and how we communicate and what right we believe the government should provide for its citizens. The collapse changed our vision of society and forced the nation to reevaluate their values, as shown by the introduction to the new constitution. All the human rights issues in the current constitution were updated to some extent in the new constitution, but it also includes important new references to human rights protection. First of all, there is Article 5. for the protection of human rights. According to this article, the rulers of government are required to respect human rights and to ensure that all will enjoy the rights and freedoms of the Constitution. Seven. says that everyone has an inborn right to life. This is a new arrangement based on international human rights, such as Article 2. The European Convention of Human Rights guarantees this vital and inborn right. Then there is paragraph 8. of human dignity. It is a new law that aims to establish the ideological basis for human dignity and the diversity of human life. The law is based on Article 1. The United Nations Declaration of Human Rights A similar law can also be found in Article 1. The German constitution, Grundgesetz, by permission of President: ▪ Die Würde des Menschen was an unantastbar. Sie zu achten undzu schützen ist Verplichtung aller statlichen Gewalt. Or in English: Human dignity is uncontaminated. Respect and protect it is the duty of all authority. This is an important precept of the German Constitution. I don't think there's any wonder. It is important to have it in a constitution that we all have the responsibility to protect human dignity. But on the newcomer, a respectable president. 10th par. The new constitution covers protection from violence. The article says that everyone is protected from any form of violence, such as domestic and external sexual abuse. Many opposers have felt that this law was unnecessary, including where there is protection against violence in the general law of punishment - and that is correct. I have noticed that these issue figures are all equal men and may be influenced by their stand that there is enough to protect the State from any kind of violence, such as sexual violence or domestic violence. But me and many women, I know, disagree with these unnecessary reasonings because it certainly is necessary and necessary to establish this important protection against violence in a constitution. A respectable president. 17th par. The bill is about information and participation rights and the public and media options to obtain information and data from the government. He's legalized here in the constitution. It is an enormous arrangement that includes the public information rights for the first time in a constitution. This also applies to 18. About freedom of the media and 24th degree. for the freedom of culture and education, as well as the new provision of cultural rights, e.g. The academic freedoms and artistry freedoms to artistic creation. We have recently seen an example that the minister of this government slights academic freedom, violates it, and overtakes scholars with presumptuousness and bullying. We could use the regulations in this constitution. Then, in the bill, you will find important laws on rights to best health, i.e. of 26. The bill. I've heard some opposers, often legalists, ask what this right to health really is, what it really means. Of course, there is no way, more respected President, that lawyers act as if they've never heard of one of the most important social rights in Iceland's history. Of course, they know the rights to the best possible health, but they did not know this important social rights, I can point them into the website a repetitive.is where the right to the best of health is explained in easy - to - read and accessible to them. These are important rights. These are rights that have often occurred recently. Ideally, no wonder, then, is the prerequisite for us to use as rich our limitations as we are now making sure that we are standing to protect the lives and health of humans with the limitations of people's freedoms. Finally, there are other important social rights, such as the right to education, rights of children, and the right to limit human rights in which to be restricted, in what way it should be done, and what human rights have no limits. That's where we are, for example. talking about prohibitions against torture that just can't be taken at all. A respectable president. As you can see and hear in this long list this bill contains many improvements to the current constitution. The position of civil rights protection and protection would be much more reliable and more powerful in this country if this bill went into effect as the new Icelandic constitution. Let us now consider the section of the bill, which, in my opinion and in many others, contains the key reasons why the national will has been ignored so far, the chapter that contains the good resource law. It's III. Chapter of the bill entitled Association and Nature. There are laws on society and nature and new things, e.g. about animal protection and cultural value. But one of the most important features is the nature of Iceland and the use of natural resources and the natural resources mentioned above. Thirty-four. says that the natural nature of Iceland is the basis of life in the country, that everyone should respect and protect it. It involves the maintenance of national and biological diversity and the protection of natural monuments, uninhabited areas, vegetation, and soil. The first record should be added to the prisoners, and by law it should ensure that everyone has access to unspoiled nature and that the use of natural resources should be guided to the lowest extent possible and that the values and interests of future generations are respected. Thirty-five. is then this important and difficult law on natural resources, the most widely discussed directives of the past loss. According to this article, resources in the natural world of Iceland are not dependent on the national private rights of common and lasting property. The directive attaches to the constitution the principle that the nation that is the owner of the resource has the right to employ it, and when it comes to the fishing resource, the profit is not left for its owner, the nation. This is the new constitution that guarantees it. And here, a respectable president, the knife goes really tight because those in charge, they feel they can't have anything, and they're not supposed to get that money that only selected friends can get for the resources. Only to the technical aspects of this important law, a respectable president. A significant consideration has been given to the renderings of 5 mg. Thirty-five. in this bill requiring permission for the use or use of resources, and that it should be given only to the normal amount and to a certain moderate amount of time at the same time. As anyone who has ever been involved in this matter is aware, the wording was changed to the council's treatment at the time, but it required that a full fee be paid for its use. So I want to introduce only the understanding that we pay for the ultimate price and the reasonable and normal price. Of course, when it comes to a market resource, such as fishing the resource, the nation has the right to obtain the full amount of money. As representatives of the case here at the council, however, we do not believe that we have the authority to act further and after ourselves the appropriateness of the bill as it was at the end of the council in 2013. For further adjustments to the arrangement, this must be done either by convergence or even by public access. Yet, what we did during our contributions this time was to explain more fully how this article should be interpreted by adding a new chapter to an explanation of Article 35. that is about how these words should be interpreted, to a natural currency. As the report says, with the permission of a president: In view of 4 mg, the word layer ▪ for the normal currency should be interpreted. The article where it is mandatory that the use of resources should be guided by sustainable development and the benefit of the public. With the word "purity" is even referred to the nation as having the resources and doing as their rightful claim to profit from them. Thus, in accordance with a proper perspective, a principle normal is that the total amount of resource use is taken into the possession of national property. The total price, i.e., refers to market prices. The highest price anyone is willing to pay, e.g. on the market or auction or in contracts with the state as the agent of the rights owner, the nation. Again, the full price of the principle is applicable to the situation where resource resources are formed at a different level. On the other hand, if resource use is not a private resource, such as social projects, research, or routine applications of individuals without significant revenue, the legislation of the legislators may require that the normal currency be left alone or determined in a way that is not on the market or at auction, such as a fixed currency. In general, the lawgiver is expected to seek to determine the nation's share not to be so low that it becomes of the appropriate income of the resources, nor is it so high that it inhibits the use and natural use of it as such, taking into account financial and risks. I hope that this will only explain our approach to this important matter and to this expression that has long been bitten in the discussion when it comes to the resource policy. Let's go to IV. section of the bill, a respected president, the chapter on the General Assembly. In the Council of Government Council, a discussion of the General Assembly of III was held. section but due to changes in II. the number of the chapter is moving up. IV. This chapter discusses the work of the Generals and the Generals, the election for the Generals, and the democratic participation of the public. This section of the bill includes the most appropriate improvements to the current constitution. The current constitution is largely based on the first Icelandic constitution we received in 1874 from Denmark. Does it mention the Constitution of Iceland's bizarre affairs? At that time, Iceland was under Denmark's monarchy, and the Constitution reflected it normally. When Iceland became so sovereign and independent democracy in 1944, we received a new constitution, which continues to be in effect to this day. To a large extent, that constitution was based on existing constitutions. Thus, it could be said that a complete review was not carried out. Rather, the Constitution was only made necessary on that occasion, and the actual general review was stored. Thus, the role and administrative status of the General against the other arms of the State is unclear in many places in the current constitution, even based more on interpretation and tradition than on actual laws. The new constitution makes clear the order and manner of the Generals. The three main projects of the General Assembly, legislation, Senate and financial authority are specifically described in an article on the role of the Parliament, the treatment rules have been changed, as well as the addition of a special article on the treatment of Congress arrangements and other members of Congress. The Senate's surveillance role is strengthened and the position of the government opposition and the lower part is strengthened. Qualifications to pay from a state fund without permission to be funded are tight and authorized to render the state responsibility of private property must be devoted to the public interest. A committee entitled Legal Court of the General Assembly is set up and considered the administrative value of a law-oriented projector. In the 2008 economic collapse, a respected president faced us that some aspects of Iceland's regime were not working at all. Improvements were needed. This was shown in a report by the General Commission on the conduct and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks as well as in the 2009 and 2010 National Conferences. Among the results observed at the national meeting on November 6, 2010, the requirement for modifying power in the national administration directive was to strengthen the separating of law-and-success, to strengthen the position of the General Assembly, and to support the administration. That's exactly what the new constitution does. It also mentions independence from the executive authority. The new constitution increases the independence of the council from the Commission, including the Council, to the Commission. by explaining and sharpening the meeting's surveillance role and focusing on increasing professionality in preparing legislators. To achieve this granting of the legislation of the legislature to the Commission, the bill contains extensive changes that I intend to cross now. First, it means that the Council chooses prime minister in direct open election. This makes it even more clear that the prime minister and government minister sit in the shelter of the greater part of the council, and this is consistently in cooperation with the clear law of distrust. Second, the Senate's legal role is improved. The General Assembly will be the sole legislatator of the legislature, and the president will no longer arrive at his contribution from the government. It is mandatory that primarys follow an assessment of the effect, and the possibility is opened that the bills will be made for two more than three debates. Then a quarter of the senators will be able to refer the bill to the law. However, the president will continue to have Roman authority and to be able to send a case to a national law. Third, the General will only be breached by the decision of the council itself, not according to the decision of the prime minister at this time. Then the prime minister is authorized to issue temporary laws. The U.S. government is Generalis, and it is to be ruled by that authority. Then there will be no more council ministers who will be senators who must step aside from their place of council. This is an enormous and important step towards the separation of law-enforcement authority and greatly increases the independence of the council. The Senate budget management with payments from a government fund outside the budget is very high. Then, important independent surveillance agencies of the Council are established in a constitution, i.e. An agent of the Generals and a State Reconnaissance. Finally, the General is given a number of additional work projects to monitor the European Commission. Among these are the administrative and monitoring committees in the constitution. Then the bill will set up some changes that will strengthen the memory of the part and will increase the consultation between government and government status at the General Assembly. The President of Generalis will be elected by two thirds of the votes and will disbarrent the General Assembly and not have a vote. This is to strengthen the confidence of the entire council to the president and ensure that he is actually a candidate for all members of the council, not just the majority. Finally, there will be a number of cases requiring political treatment and approval from an increased proportion, i.e. votes for an increase in the number of members of Congress, two thirds. When it comes to the General election, a respectable president, it is in the bill to find significant changes from the current constitution. The bill, as it is stated here, has the assurance that the vote of voters all over the country should weigh as much as possible. Then there is the bill of the Council of Governments for a license to divide the country into a ideal, most of eight. This limitation has since been removed after the council treatment. The condition is about the voter's authorization to select either a list or to choose individual candidates in the individual enterprise. In contrast with today's, what is stated here is that the new constitution guarantees democracy much better where there is a balance between votes. The voice of all will have the same significance, whether the person lives in the downtown town of Reykjavík, the Breinholt, the Roovet, the Akureyri, or different different places. The chapter also contains further improvements that have fallen to ensure transparency in the activities of the Generals and the Generals. For example, 51st grade. on the membership of members of the Parliament and when they are incompetent to discuss the matter of Congress. Moreover, there is a requirement for strength to the candidates and for their companions in the 52ndre. The new constitution also contains regulations for the President of Iceland, in V. According to the bill, President shall be no more than three terms. There are adjustments in the vote for President's office. The voters will be able to put the candidates in first place and will best meet the priorities of the voters to be the elected president. There are considerable and vital adjustments to Presidential authority. In the current constitution, there are several places where a certain role of the president is set while his attendance is actually only formal, since he has a minister performs his authority. According to the bill, the President will no longer have authority on the contributions of the vice presidents, the publication of administrative orders, or the agreements of national rights. Then the president will no longer have the authority to breach the council. It shall be noted, however, that the president remains authorized to deny signatures and file a legal case. In the sixth chapter of the new constitution, there is a discussion of government and minister. It discusses the government and its formation, the minister's task force and responsibility, the distrust of ministers, personnel, and other related factors. The articles are far more detailed than those contained in the current constitution. Then we will focus on ministers, ministers, their roles, their responsibilities, and their responsibilities. The terms of the current Constitution of the European Commission, Minister and Government remain virtually unchanged from 1874. With the new constitution, members of Congress must be removed from their office as ministers, not having a vote for the council even though they can still state their case, answer questions, and deliver reports. It is recently stated in the bill that the Ministers have a duty of truth to the council. And the Minister's responsibility is finally much clearer than in the current constitution. Ninety-seven. The legal responsibility of a minister for office work and the procedure to handle such responsibility is laid down. President. Together, it is an enormous reform as a new constitution, based on legal proposals, that includes the Republic of Iceland. We're talking about better human rights protection. We are talking about a much greater responsibility of rulers to their voters. We're talking about public information rights, trust in a constitution. We are talking about an increased demand for oscillation about a ruler's decisions. And we're talking about resources from national property. This should not be a complicated discussion. This should not be a case that has floated in some incredible error here at the General Assembly for eight years since the nation agreed that this program would lay the basis for a new constitution for Iceland eight years ago. As I came to my opening statement, a respectable president, we cannot rightly call ourselves a democracy. Iceland and the Icelandic government cannot claim to represent democracy and be a government in a democracy if they ignore the will of national law if they ignore the results of national law. The approval of the new constitution is a fundamental question of growing confidence in the Council, of increasing trust in politics. Why should the nation trust a government that does not listen to it? If the nation's conclusions are ignored, why should the nation ever again participate in national pay? I find it incredibly sad to live in a country where eight years have passed since the nation, the director of the Constitution, decided that they wanted a new Community contract for Iceland, that they wanted a new contract, that they wanted a new rule of how elected agents, rulers in Iceland, could behave, what rules of play in Iceland. It is the nation that is the constitution manager. It is the people who are authorized to set us here as rules of conduct. It is not unique politicians, it is not the presidents of the Party, it is not the prime minister to play with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u22	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the history of this important matter. Again and again, members of Congress, we are measuring and measuring the bill for a administrative law, the bill unchanged as it was when theocracy's most democratic work of writing constitutions that had been recognized over a long period of time was due to the struggle of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, which always stood by the conviction of his work here at the council that a new constitution would bring the Icelandic nation forward and to a better community. In the Treaty of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir says, by permission of the president: The government wants to continue the full reexamination of the Constitution in a transpirary partnership with the country's arrival and, among other things, use the methods of public society. The committee will begin work at the start of a new council, and the government will emphasize the progress of social relations in the career of the work. Yes, the committee has been at work. Where there is no solidarity, either within the government or outside, the highest. The prime minister carries some prime products to change the laws of the administration at any given moment. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir, not as the leader of the position she called for, but the government stressed at the beginning of the season, I repeat, by permission of President, the meeting is being achieved through the career of work, to be met by the government. It may be there that the password is, the career of work, that the process of partnership, not obvious. Perhaps it was never the case on the side of the three administrations, the broad government, that the subject would be met with solidarity. Perhaps it was a concordat of the process during the terms, but it's nothing else, and that's what's about to happen to us now. In the United States, we have repeatedly noted the importance of the respect for the people's will for the people of the United States. Although a national agreement that had an eight - year birthday yesterday was a counselor, the result was clear. We must never forget that the constitutionr is the Icelandic nation. The nation shall vote for a constitution, but the lawgiver is the General, and it is here for us to perform the basics of the Constitution and to complete the case. Here, the public and members of society have the option to send in envelopes and appear before the Walden Committees. V.E.G. One minister has said that the most important thing to do is to get along with the issue, so I ask here: " Where and where? Is it enough to settle the process? It's enough to settle for the highest level. Prime Minister put in his own name a bill? I think it's quite a little ambition in the highest. A government, I must say. The battle for a new constitution has lasted for decades. Vilmundur Gylfason and Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir were long in the direction of those who spoke repeatedly for a new constitution, ahead of which their predecessors at council, in various categories, had suggested occasional changes in the provisional administration of the Danish king's national population. The call for a new and changed constitution grew greatly after the 2008 collapse of the bank. Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir arranged the case when she took the keys of the Council and started them, so let me quote the words of Mrs. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, the most comprehensive and democratic work of the constitution that history may record. I agree with Mrs. Vigdís. A government committee was set up for a national meeting of 1,000 people of the whole country chosen by randomness, based on evidence of the values and goals that should be included in the national community covenant. A council was elected, and then a council was appointed by the General, where the voices of different cultural elements were placed in place. For several months the council worked, handing down a plan to the General Assembly on a new constitution that was undertook by national law. The vast majority of things wanted that work built. The General Commission and Commission completed their work on a bill for a new constitution, based on the work of a government legislature, at the will of the nation. That's what we're talking about here, Mr. President. It's exactly this document we're talking about, this document that was made in the most democratic process known by a bullpen but it's yet a new constitution has not been legalized. Again, I allow myself to quote Mrs. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, who has said that the Icelandic people waited long enough, and I agree with her deeply again. Far from it, the democratic process that began in 2009 is not thwarted. This has not been refused, as has been said in the recent discussion, far from that point of view. It needs to be respected and reinvigorated. They need to show due respect for the strength of the nation's united forces at a national meeting, the more than 500 people who volunteered for a government convention, all who came together to vote for representatives at the council, the work of the representatives themselves, and finally the people who chose the vote on October 20, 2012. It is so important for this small nation's continued solidarity to refrain from acting like this most democratic act of government, which has not occurred today. Many people act like it didn't happen. But we who stand here today and who are the couriers of this matter are going to respect this process. We've done it before. This is not the first time we've been making this case, and we're supposed to respect all the work that thousands of people have done. By ignoring all of this vital process and creating one's own, there is the highest power. The prime minister and the government are downplaying the thousands who made an honest, beautiful conversation with many people. During this term, an experiment was made to some sort of consultation, first with a reasoning poll and then a meeting at the Saturday Valley Hall, where more than 200 people were sitting and receiving material for a discussion that had been set aside by government authorities. Now I will not belittle the initiative or contribution of those who arrived there, but we cannot overlook the fact that the new constitution, the one we are considering today, was not there. Those who wished to discuss her material at the meeting were asked to stick to the defined subject. The result of this alleged consultation seems to have been to some extent caught in a drawer of the Council of Government if it was based on the comments of Jón Ólafsson, one of those who conducted the reasoning survey. In his review of the bill, about the chapter of the President who was presented in government consultation, Jón says, by the permission of a president, that in the bill, there is virtually no attempt to link proposals, arguments, and explanations in the bill to the public council, or to say the alleged public council. He says that references to the individual aspects of the discussion are random and occasional misleading. There is no systematic way to build on the consultation, where the results of the public body may be in line with the bill series and no attempt to explain the variations in the elements from the consultations that were due to occur, the anomalies as they are shown in these bill series. Jón says, with president's permission: ▪ In some respects, the public body is maligned in the report and bill itself, but in other respects it is avoided. Thus, it seems that the so - called agreement of the government on this matter is merely worded but not seen at the table. There is a familiar theme for us in our government position, the discussion is more in word than at table. It has been informative to observe members of the administrations justify the process that has taken place during the scheduled period. The justice of those pieces as offered to the nation is always that it is tried to create as the broadest solidarity of the change in the constitution, but it is obvious that a penile effort is being made. Since the prime minister will not even be reached through the governments, it is a question of where the broad controversies should be placed on them. This experiment, in which there is the least way of doing it not to strategize the ruling party that has been vicious for decades to combat needed democracies, seems to be condensed, and those who wish to build in previous careers are most likely not good enough in compromise. Only back to this document we're considering today, because it's an unchanged document from a management and monitoring committee written by the Venice Committee. It is very important that this bill's carriers have not been able to interfere with what was on the bill. Why? Because we are putting this before the Council, as it were, the democratic process. In this room, transporters and all members of the council have the opportunity to produce their ideas of changing these devices. It's a bill and bills change in the General Assembly after a discussion. The person standing here doesn't agree with everything we say, but he wants to stand by that democratic process that has taken place. If such a thing is not to stand by it, there is a danger that public trust in the Generals will not succeed as long as we do not resolve this task. If you cannot get more of the money to settle this case, I believe that there will be a preliminary review of what was agreed in the 2013 Constitution after a long debate of Independence and the forwarding party. The preliminary principle is that changes in the constitution could be made without two elections between elections. It's a long time ago. It's not ruined, not at all. We just need to respect it and end it properly. It contains the clear will of the majority of the people, and it is to be respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u23	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill for a new constitution. It is impossible to empty the discussion now. I wish this case could get to the 2nd. so that we could talk about it properly, perhaps not forever, as happened in the past, but more than will be slowly. I hope they get out of the committee once they've gone to her, and they've got coverage there, and they're expected to have some adjustment proposals made at the same time. However, to this end, I want to review only the changes and how experts feel about the matter. It is obvious to me, and certainly to many experts, that after a collapse in the community there was a great lack of confidence in experts, lawyers, politicians, economists, and more and less all the experts who had been listened to the previous years. That distrust was understandable in view of the shock that had befallen the nation. Sadly, though, the unfortunate approach of many was simply to rule out all that experts said. Sadly, since then, experts have been influenced by the fact that they do not consider themselves to be part of the discussion and that they are not listening. In part, I'm afraid it's true. People are fighting for a new constitution that doesn't listen to experts because they're experts. It has been that way over the years, and unfortunately it is still in some respects, but fortunately, in my opinion, less and less. Second, it has to be said that they have been heard by specialists. Experts were listened when a board of governance met. They were listened to when the bill was submitted at the General Assembly. They were listened to when they went before the General Assembly Committee, the Board of Directors and Commission, as well as foreign experts of the Venice Committee, etc. A lot of experts have been listened to. Many comments have been made into the mood and are seen in it as it appears to us right now. On the other hand, as we know, the matter has not yet been completed, and no doubt there is more to change. The nature of the matter, according to one authority, does not agree on exactly what to be done or on the basis of what to do with it. What we should be able to tell us, though, is that when we make changes in the Council, we do not have, nor are we supposed to dare to reduce the bites of guidelines or reduce the ability of laws designed to protect the rights of our citizens. It's our job here to try to polish the case a little bit, but then what? That's not quite clear, Mr. Honorable President. It's not quite clear what such a thing, so I hereby declare it over, something that should actually be obvious, that in itself it is all open to us how we made further changes in agreement with the experts and the public. There are many things there, and in my opinion nothing sacred. It does not necessarily mean that here the bill simply goes through and through to the next rate and the case will be over. Why not a new administrative body, or a rich public entrance to the change? I thought it was very normal. I think it is absolutely necessary to go to the voter's court in a binding way, but I don't have the output here because we haven't quite arrived. The reason we are not there is that people are in opposition to the work in themselves, not just because they have material comments that might be worth taking into account, but because they are against a new constitution, that is, against changing a constitution to some extent, and for which there are many reasons. Some are simple conservatives, and that is all. In any case, our basic thoughts about our new constitution must be democracy, public attendance. It's the public that owns this constitution. In the case of the matter, we need to respect it at the General Assembly, and this involves how we change matters materially, in what way. We can't do it just any way, if it's to be moral. Once 1 0 percent of the voters are said to be able to bring in national terms, we should stick with the 10%. We should not increase the share simply because we feel that it is uncomfortablely low. It wouldn't be a business, a respectable president, and that mine doesn't know morally justified. It might be considered a few of the principles that have been discussed. Likewise, the point, which is pressed on so much, never seems to be superseded: Who is the constitution manager? A respectable president. It's the people. We've got to believe it in here. This means that when voters make a very decisive decision in 2012 that a new constitution should be established on the basis of the management board's work, we should apply it whether we like it or not. If we have comments, it is good to make those comments and adjustments in order to achieve them. If we feel that some aspect of the matter is dangerous, we should suggest that we change it so that it is not dangerous, to achieve it, not to stop it, and not to delay it. But this was done, and it is distressing. It's completely disturbing in a democracy. I'm not trying to make any voters here, a respectable president. Here I try to appeal to my conscience. Senators and politicians in Iceland. I don't agree with everything on this bill myself. I don't think there's a soul in Iceland that agrees with everything in the bill, or the current constitution. That's normal. Still, it is our duty to conform to our national will and to bring about the changes we want to make and persuade the public. There shouldn't be such a terrible problem for a politician, I would think. This case is presented in the form that it is today unchanged materially, i.e. the text of the text itself remains unchanged from theward committee of administrations and monitoring committees from 2013. This is because there needs to be a clear process around how it is changed. The work had come to that place when it ended in 2013, and that is why we will continue with it today, with the donation of this bill. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir did well to review how the report is made only clearer now in view of Article 35. about resources, i.e. a total price to pay. Or as I would say it: There's a total price in the bill. It is natural to take the full price of a principle, as shown in the paragraph, and to refer it to a further discussion on this subject. I certainly hope the case comes to 2nd. in an assembly so that we can discuss this point further. It is probably in my opinion that the principle of the material itself should be explained more fully to the point presented in the paper today. I have to discuss only the Constitutional Committee of the Management Board. The prime minister who has been active during this terms, and I have shared in the behalf of Pirata. Since we don't have an chairman, I was recruited by the Martyrs' Party to be on that committee. I must say that from the beginning I went into that job, and I want to mean everyone who came to it, at least so I know, with a complete mind of leading the job to the finish. Not all of us may have hoped that the result would be what we personally wanted, but we certainly worked with them to try it at least and do it with a complete heart, with that objective. If I expressed my goal many times, I would think of the work as a complete reexamination, on the basis of the bill of the administration board, including the Sadly, the experience at the end of the three years or so is not yet being done, a respectable president. We suggested at the outset that, instead of setting up sections of the current constitution and working with them, we would work with a section of the Management Board. We suggested this, but it was refused. I mean, if we'd gone that way, we'd have other bills today. We would have used other tactics. It is the approach that we have to follow as politicians after 2012, to base our work on the bill of Government Council. We need not agree. This is not a religious book, and it can be changed when necessary or wise in view of and given public conspiracy and because it is to increase, rather than reduce, democratic powers like the government or rights of the citizens. So I'm used to this meeting, I'm afraid I'm going to have to say, that my suggestions and those of the others who have been there have been ignored. I feel that we have been invited to a meeting so that it has been invited to a meeting. So, you know, it's the highest. Ministers, I'm sure with specialists and other persons I don't know exactly who are, for these bills, do offer some suggestions, I say mine at the meetings, and then comes the motion either unchanged or completely without my comment afterwards. I know that more people in this committee feel the same way. I'm just talking for myself, and that's why I'm using the first person in a singular. As we have considered earlier, the projections do not appear to be at the highest level. Prime Ministers intend to suggest that the community council has been built. There is much good to say about the public conspiracy, but just as with the 2012 public conspiracy, it is always dependent on what the politicians want. I find it so boring by Icelandic politicians that it somehow turns out okay. Now it's not something I would have voted for if I lived in Britain at the time, but it has to be noted that there hardly was a possibility of betraying voters about what had been announced to national law. On the contrary, politicians who opposed Baltrexit, opposed leaving the European Union, worked hard to do the best that could be done. It's a responsibility, a respectable president. We do not have to agree, but we need to be clear about who is in charge of this country and who is the constitution manager. In Iceland's case, I claim it's the people, not the people at the Council. What will follow? Experts have made some comments. I haven't been able to analyze all of them. I hope we make it in this round of the Board of Management and Control Committee, between 1 and 2. I strongly expect the case to return to the committee between 2 and 3rd. I expect papers, arguments, increased access to experts, and greater access to the public. I'll bet you are. There's no room for stone. At one time it was also open, closer to the common people, but it did not end because the matter stopped in a Senate hall because of a discrepancy. Ideas of a new administrative body have been proposed in various conversations. Some comments could be made on how it was being carried out at the time, but then it needs to be suggested, and then politicians have to approach it with the attitude that it should be completed. Not by stopping or delaying it, but by improving it. Because contrary to what some conservative opposers of the Constitution want to mean, this constitution is for all of us, to protect the rights of us all, to the republic all. A respectable president. It was such a beautiful story that was told by Iceland after a collapse in some respects. There were so many things that were beautiful and exemplary. Sadly, more than you would like to build on hope and expectations, was involved. The Constitution is one of these items. We were going to be the best at freedom of expression and information, and we could have been, and we might still have. And we were going to do this, finish the Republic Institute, a respectable president, and I guess we can do it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before the speech. I'd like to ask him first, if he can only instruct me about this great filancy that stopped the matter during the winter of 20123/42013, if the statistical research of Pirata revealed that it was a case that stopped the matter. The evidence on this issue is available on the Generals Web site, where the process of the case is traced, including Based on the changes then that the more part of the administration and monitoring committees did in the case at the time and on the extent of the discussion of each part of the entire process. The situation is now, according to my own statistics, that the alleged filancy has not reached the top of ten over the seminars that had taken place at the council at that time, and many have subsequently taken them to a substantial degree. This swamp, which has been traced to these years, may be more swampy than a reality supported by statistical data. That wasn't my main subject, though, but maybe I wanted to ask another question, because I hear why. paritaprevir On the other hand, the Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson believes that he would like to maintain his loyalty or loyalty to the proposals of a government council in his day, yet he still believes that there is room for change. I don't realize where that limit lies. Is he primarily thinking about the box, but can't change individual articles? I understood it so that individual articles could be changed, but then he said in the other word that 10% of the Council's proposals are sacred and not be moved, just for example.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u25	A respectable president. Just a little bit on the verbal-depth question. It is not simply a matter of time - consuming speech because their function is always based on the amount of time left. Now, there is an abundance of language that can always be ignored as to what is a filibuster and what is just a long discussion. We've had that conversation a million times and a few times. A senator is as expert as I am in it, he can answer these questions himself, with all its respect. But I'll let it lie between parts. I can only fight it. It doesn't necessarily have to do with whether or not there was a filancy, I'll just make up with it, and if that continues with us, let me not discuss it. Hv. A senator asks this good question: Where do the lines of where to change the bill of governance and where it cannot be changed? Government Council returned a draft, not a fully formed piece of paper. It was not the task of returning a fully formed piece of paper, and I think that a policy of governance itself would have wanted to do more if it had been the original goal. It was to change the case. In what way, ask why. Senator. That's a good test, sometimes called the Ragnar test, after the highest. A lawyer, very known, and it means that if a change is made to promote the rights of the citizens, at least not to reduce them, it will resist testing. Increasing the threshold from 10% to 15% by the number of voters who may require binding national law on a case is to reduce the right of voters to influence. In that respect, I would say, " It's wrong. ' We're not supposed to. To turn them 10% to 5%, I don't remember anyone suggesting it, would pass the test because it increases public rights. There is in itself no clear line on this. However, the goal is to increase the rights of the citizens, democratic rights as well as individual rights, and that is the substance that cannot be changed. Then there are some subsidiary laws that have been changed to improve the rights of the citizens or to protect them better from the superpowers of the State. I'm sorry, but I don't have time for it right now, but I expect it. A senator has another answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u26	Mr. President. I've heard some versions of this so-called Ragnar's test, including... that if the change is in accordance with the public interest, it's not okay. However, I have to say that it is and has long been a fundamental political difference on how to interpret such terms as public interest or how the city's rights are increased. Often there are strong differing opinions as to whether some adjustments are necessary to improve rights, private rights, or the like. Whether or not there is a political issue. Although this test sounds okay, it is not suitable as a measure. Each can examine it with its own glasses, so there is no common standard that humans can use to evaluate what can be changed and what can not be changed. I'm just saying, the process that was going on during the campaign season in 2009-2013 built on certain grounds. This gave rise to some suggestions that later became a change of image to a bill at the General Assembly. That bill landed in a ditch, the process stopped. These suggestions exist and can be discussed, submitted as it is being done today, and discussed on the basis of how we change a constitution in the country. But we have the freedom to accept, accept, or reject every suggestion we make, according to our convictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u27	A respectable president. When it comes to saying that, of course, members of Congress can make the necessary adjustments they may make, I feel a little bit like it's saying to me that I can be rude, that I can be boring. That's right, a respectable president, but that doesn't mean it's right, and that doesn't mean there's something we should try to do. When it comes to respecting the national will, which is a moral question for each and every one of us, we must strive to make changes that are in harmony with the national will as he appears in 2012, even if we do not personally appreciate it. I am, for example. I'm very opposed to the fact that there's some kind of folk-creat in the constitution, I find it ridiculous, absolutely ridiculous, but I'm a diploma in this case because we're going to finish this case and then we're going to the other side. We need to carry out his national willingness as he does toward us and do our part to improve matters rather than prevent them from doing so. This is just a moral question that every senator must apply to himself. As for the Ragnar test, that's right, I think, by the way. A senator, that if you make progress in public interest, in terms of public interest, you'll soon get into trouble because we're in such a great deal of disagreement about it. That's why it's better for me to refer to the rights of the citizens, democratic rights such as, for example, Existence of selection or individual freedom, i.e. Freedom of the overpowering citizen. You're right next door. A senator that sometimes this is unclear, but sometimes it is very clear, and at any rate, when it is clear whether we are reducing or increasing our democratic rights, it should be possible to help us in my opinion enough in terms of the changes made, knowing that I am aware. Most important, I'd like to remind you that it's not necessarily our wall to control us, and that's why I think it's a good idea to redirect the case to some kind of government council or closer public council to make decisions about such things without our own political interests, as elected agents, being in trouble. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u28	A respectable president. In my opinion, this case is the biggest democratic case this council has, the largest legal case, the largest environmental issue, the largest case, point. It has been called for a material discussion on the bill on the change in constitution. That's what you did. Prime Minister, we're not sure what to say. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson earlier this week. I called for the highest. The prime minister would be present for this discussion in order to have a material discussion about the subject, but there is no prime minister, something remarkable. It has also been noted frequently that there is a need for reconciliation, wide reconciliation, regarding the changes. It seems to everyone else, but perhaps to those who say so, that the Independence Party is comfortable with the changes. But I want to turn it around. It has come to a conclusion in the National Code, where a greater proportion agreed to lay the foundation of a new constitution by means of a board of directors. In all democratic terms, an increase in things means reconciliation. It means, in my opinion, that it has to be settled if they're to be changed, i.e. When we make adjustments in the material found in the Council of Government, all of us need to be content, a very important difference between where the reconciliation needs to be settled. The reason is that it is a national agreement. It is higher than the commission I have as an elected representative in general vote. This is a vote on a specific matter. The lawyers here should know the discussion of special law and general law, and be able to establish a link between them. There's the voter's agency, all voters who wanted to participate are not important. Everyone could join us. The only thing that matters there is the result. If we are to discuss the importance of the masses, we need to compare these with previous national legal requirements, such as the U.S.A. When Iceland became its sovereignty. At that time, there was a lower percentage of voters who said yes to that question, although the proportion of voters was higher. There were, however, fewer members. With that reasoning, we would not have become the sovereignty of 1918. The reason for a small campaign was similar to that of today, when an epidemic was going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u29	Not 2012.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u30	Not 2012.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u31	Then there was no epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u32	No, it wasn't an epidemic at the time. There were other things going on. [[Up front.]] No matter what: When there is a national agreement available to all, everyone has a chance of participating in it. If we're going to go to some outback, we're going out on a pretty high level of ice in a democratic argument. Since then, there have been several elections, and other evidence has been used. It was an election, and the results of it have created governments that have just not seen to have more of the matter at council. That's an interesting argument, especially when we're looking at the terms of the season right after 2009-2013, i.e. 2013◯2016. It was then a policy of one of the government classes during the terms of completing the process. It was the forward party. It was in their resolution from February of the year to complete the Constitution case by subtracting a existing board of governance. And now for this election period, it was the policy of the left green to finish the case according to the terms of the national law. But somehow it didn't happen. So the argument that there has been an election, a general election, which somehow should overwrite special elections, which has led to the failure of the matter at the council, has failed to resist the campaigns given before elections. It won't. Although it can be otherwise, expectations were not given for the election, i.e. They simply betrayed an election code. That's right. In 2016, I considered this matter only, and I analyzed the difference between the contents of the current constitution and the currently existing bill. The analysis I did then, maybe I should update it now and maybe become an excellent project over the next few weeks, found that based on the current constitution and the bill of administration, not the bill that was submitted here, I would update it in terms of it, are in Iceland's constitution 203 sentences, from dot to dot. The board's bill contains 378 sentences. The new constitution is much longer than the current constitution. The question I wanted to answer was to see how much of the constitution is found in the bill of administration because it was spoken of as a cowering, absolute legal assurance, and it was all taken aside, etc. The conclusion was: No. That's at least 160 sentences from the constitution, found in the bill of the Constitution, from word to word. However, there are 43 disappearing phrases, sentences not found in a management board bill or changed in some way, so there is another arrangement, e.g. not a national judgment, it's just the Supreme Court that handles things like that, etc. There are 43 sentences that either disappear, or they are tolerated so much that you can, in fact, say they are not in the board of directors' bill. I'd love to read them all up, but it takes time with 43 sentences. One of them is just an article that shows that the president is granting either himself or by assigning other governments an exception to the laws that have been followed so far. This disappears, for example, in a single seminar, it disappears, it has been changed and is different. There are other examples. They have a right to assemble without weapons. It's removed and had a different way. Instead, 228 new sentences. If we take the current constitution, remove 43 sentences, and add 228 more, we'll get a bill of administration. There are some very important improvements, not additions, that should surprise no one. This means that the bill of the Management Board, and, in fact, the bill that is involved here, is first of all an update to the current constitution, 80% of it is found almost correct in the bill of administration and in the bill we address here. 80%. Then there are improvements. This, these 43 excerpts that are vanishing, is the material discussion we should take. Are these phrases that should disappear? If we go over the list, I don't see any special reason for keeping any of them, especially not in terms of what will be replaced. The rest of the material discussion are these 228 new sentences in the topic of governance. I'd have to do that analysis again on the basis of the new bill, it could be pretty interesting too, but that's not much different. There are some changes, though, but they should not change that number very much. To date, there has been no much material discussion about the individual articles of the bill except in this committee of directors, which is otherwise of great interest because of the highest interest. Prime Minister called for material discussions. At the same time as the highest. One prime minister calls for a material discussion at a council hall that has locked this process in a group of presidents throughout the term and then does not even show up for the material discussion she called on. Very interesting, at least, to me. The Internet contains an interesting website entitled Shirnsk.com, which should be a discussion of the facts. If I compare my analysis of the difference between the constitution and the bill of administration with that site, I conclude that we do not fully agree on the facts and the things that are not. One that is, for example... □ In what way does Jehovah's name come to be known as the New Order? No one's saying there was a kosine new constitution. They all know that it was chosen whether a bill should be made to a administrative body based on a new constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u33	As a bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u34	As bill for a new constitution. They were not elected to have a constitution and had come to the use of a new constitution. It wasn't a choice, everybody knows it. But the discussion is always being put out and put out in a way that someone is saying it. It's called a straw man. It is said that 64% agreed to provide the basis for this, as it is set out there, when it is the right thing to do, there were 66.9%. I don't know why the percentage had to be changed. Is there a reason to change the constitution? It is also asked on the page, reviewing the work of the present government and the government covenant and the procedure with the leaders of the classes. The problem with that question is that the decision of the national law tells us that a bill should be submitted to a new constitution, based on a draft of governance advice. That is our assignment according to the results of a national law. It can also be suggested that individual articles will change, but it will not meet the results of the National Remuneration. Did the nation build a new constitution? is one question, too. This is answered by the failure of the people to write text. Yes, technically, that's not true, but as close as you can find out. The country selects representatives to put together a bill to a new constitution, with extensive consultations on each of the articles asking for suggestions on changing or what else to have. There is no closer way to say that the nation certainly made up a new constitution, especially when we end up in a national law on exactly that document. The result is that more things want them to be used as a plan for a new constitution. It's our job to give it back. The General has not been able to do this in eight years. I think it's a sign of a measure of failure from the Generals, a lack of the ability to carry out a democratic role. No matter how individual senators disagree with the bill or the individual articles or whatever they may be, we should always be able to trust the voters to accept the bill and say yes or no. And it is absolutely necessary to do so. If we run from the Council of Justice in any way, we should also invite people to select a version of the Council of Government, or a version of a bill of the Council of Government. We are to be able to trust the democracy, to present this matter to the constitutionr, the nation. Instead of just saying, "I don't think it's possible, I'm just going to say no, the possibility is, let's fill out the national law. Let the nation do this again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u35	President. Thank you. An inspired speech was given by a member of the body. I'd like to ask him, for I'm trying to understand that, about the text we're working with, and there's been a considerable discussion. As we have seen, and in the matter of which. The senator and others, we are now working with the text as it looks according to its coverage. The 2013 administration and observation committee. That text, as it appears, has never been applied to the nation. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A member of Parliament: Why is it that the exact work that the members of the Parliament who attended exactly that panel at the exact time worked is holy to us that it cannot be changed, but not a job, such as. current senators who sit at ease. Administrative and surveillance committee under the leadership of the Commission. The head of the administration and monitoring committee could yield? Perhaps some other work would look different because things have changed in eight years. I really can't understand how to link the decision of the national law with the fact that the people chose this text many months earlier than exactly that text. I can't get this thing to come together. The draft board has been changed. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees that it can be done. Hv. A senator wants to freeze the time. The 2013 administrative and monitoring committee, but not the 2020 administration and monitoring committee. Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u36	A respectable president. No, I didn't say it. I never said it. This is not bound to a highly serious and frozen document from 2013, not at all. As I studied in my speech, the decision given by the National Court says that we should present a bill based on a draftal board of governance. It is in my opinion that if we are going to compromise that version, we should all agree that there is something we should be able to make the nation choose. I personally feel that the people should be allowed to choose whether they want the original wisdom or the changed law of the Generals. There's nothing frozen in this relationship, nothing. The current council and the Board of Directors and the Commission may necessarily make objective changes, definitely, there's nothing complicated about them as long as people get to vote on this after all. I think it's really important and necessary. I don't know exactly where it came from. The senator had this idea, at least she didn't come from me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u37	President. I have come to this idea by listening to a discussion on the Constitution, especially in connection with the recent collection of signatures. But let it be, we can talk about it later. Hv. In 2012 a senator speaks a lot about national pay, in October if I recall correctly, and the importance of respecting it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that we can generally choose from the National Remuneration what we choose to respect. Six questions may have been posed to the nation in the spoken - out national law. One of the six questions reads that the people are asked whether they want to have a law on a state church in a constitution, and now there is a special legal term. More of the voters agreed. Counts 'em out. A senator that we do not have to respect the nation's will in terms of the national church? The reason I ask, President, is because of what. A member of the council is one of the representatives of a bill that accurately violates this conclusion of the national law. A senator wants us to respect him. Hv. A senator is one of the couriers of a bill that goes on separateing state and church, without me taking sides on that matter, but it can be more than just that I agree with it. A senator with that. But I thought, because I listened to what. A senator and other fellow believers, that it was our choice to respect national pay now. This is all about regulations in the National Code, the President, as a matter of course. A senator cheers? Can he choose the rules of national law, what will his people want to respect, and what will he want to ignore?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u38	A respectable president. No, of course not. A senator then apparently didn't get all the things I've been talking about this case. Of course, according to the National Code, there should be a national law. Of course, I personally suggest adjustments, etc. And they are rejected or not, either of the province or of the nation. It's not that complicated. I've even talked about it in exactly this bill, or whatever. A senator pointed out that to fulfill the laws of the current Congregational Constitution, he might support them and be simply strengthened by holding out the Bishop's office or something like that. It will fulfill the constitution if it is the council assessment. I don't think it's too complicated after all. A previous answer asked him why. A senator of exactly the 2013 edition, why it was so sacred. I just want to reiterate that it's not sacred. The reason for its present existence is that the Constitution, as it was replaced in 2013, was broken. There were motions here and where a vote had been voted, but the document had never been compiled as it had become in the treatment of the council. For two members of Porta's council, a group of councils compiled the reports from the original bill, from the handling of the committees and members of the council, and from the envelopes, etc., and presented the complete document so that it would not have to be complicated to the people who were really the current version of the bill, as when the Council put it into a drawer. As I said before, it's not a sacred document at all. It will be done in every democratic process possible. After all, I look to the decision of the National Court and try to fulfill it and give back to the nation a whole bill, based on and based on a drafted board of administration. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u39	Madam President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The 2013 case is not holy at the time, as is the case with Gunnarsson's Leví Björn. The board of directors and surveillance committee prepared. But it's only there. What is holy, it is about to be paid nationally. When I was preparing for this discussion today, I examined a talk I gave on this subject during the last assembly. I felt that a chapter of that talk has a full purpose here, and I will take it back. Before that happens, though, I want to meditate on a word. The word that I would like to use to meditate on has become a short, interesting, and remarkable word and has a remarkable history in the Icelandic government organization. When the Icelanders were getting home government and were starting a process with the Danish authorities, the Icelandic word for the Danish word "missy" and the international word " become 'to " ◯minist. ' It was always spoken of who would be the counselor. Then they changed the word somewhere in the process. I don't know exactly where and how, unfortunately, I don't know that story. Maybe there are others. Senators better figures in that story than I do. However, that word, a counselor, changed to ◯ Minister. Hannes Hafstein, our first minister, was given the title of being a minister rather than a counselor. I've always felt that this change would tell some story about the way the Icelandic rulers feel about the power they're supposed to have and that they're supposed to have. A minister is not a beautiful word, and over the years, it becomes increasingly ugly. A counselor, on the other hand, is a beautiful word, and I arrive at the national payment that I turned back at the beginning of my speech. It was said to be a adviser of national law. Now that eight - year - old national agreement was to do it yesterday, and we've seen how Icelandic advisers have sought every way to escape that national payment and are still scratching themselves over how to avoid following it, and then somehow they'll have been a doer of integrity, there's nothing to tell them, because being a source of advice is a very poor thing and is, in fact, an unattainable one. Either you're a minister and you're in charge, and you just keep it like this, or you're a counselor, and there's nothing to say. This was also reflected in the way a administrative committee became a administrative body, although I will not question the outcome of the Supreme Court, which caused me to invalidate the vote for a government council council and I will not further consider going into it. Nevertheless, a body of elders was hired and thus received some kind of counseling role. There's also another word that came to me today, and it's become an airport. We have two remarkable airports near Reykjavík and in the middle of Reykjavík, that is Reykjavík, the airport, and the other Louis airport. Both of these are very important European institutions, and they play a very important role, but they are not made by Icelanders, they are not made by Icelanders, and they are not based on Icelandic conditions. The British military built a city area of Reykjavík, and it was the U.S. Army that set up a Cheflavour airport and made it according to its needs and standards, not according to Icelandic standards. Icelanders have not yet been robbed to make their own airports. Although a constitution is not an airport, a constitution resembles an airport in that there is a basis for a foundation, which is the basis for flying and is the basis for all movement in the community. That foundation must be laid on the grounds of society itself. That is why people in society themselves must come to lay that foundation. They need to be at peace with each other about how they do it. A respectable president. Then I'll get to that, so soon, about to start reading my speech from a year ago. However, before I do, I want to mention one thing because I have enjoyed listening to a well - prepared and well - prepared talk on this subject today and, including a talk. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, who told of his research and comparison, of his precise text comparison, of the ruling constitution, and of the suggestions we are referring to here. Among them - he did not make this a subject of his speech - something that should fall out of his mouth is equal to 30. Current constitution to read, with permission of the president: The President gives, either himself or by hiding it from other governments, an exception to the rules that have been followed so far. As far as this article is understandable, it is dangerous, as far as I'm concerned. Like 26 C.E., a person selected by authority may decide to activate this article. g., which everyone thought was a dead letter, was activated at the time of the then president, and no one would think of it as a dead letter any more. It would also be possible to activate an article like this and start giving an exception from the law almost after desire, and it would not be necessary to speak up to many of the dangers that can arise from this nation's democracy. But now, a respectable president, I'm going to say a few words from a speech I delivered at the last assembly on a similar subject that was handed down in the United States and the Piranha. Start reading, by permission of the president: ▪ The new constitution was taken in a long, successful process, and I do not need to remind the Senate of how it was done. There was a good work there, working faithfully and being forgiving at all levels of the matter until the last. But a person still had a feeling, as has actually been shown in this discussion, that lawyers, jurists, politicians, and some generals might have been involved in their affairs. It would even be meddling with something they only had. The Constitution would be the language of the jurists who are struggling to interpret it and cooperate with it. But that's not so, unfortunately. Of course, a constitution will be made only in great and close collaboration with all people who know the best way to work and that was also done. But the other is absolutely fundamental. The Constitution is not a matter of private attorneys and politicians. It's about all of us. The Constitution is not merely about the foundation of our community ship but the day - to - day life for all of us and the future of our children. It's about sustainability, human rights, democracy, social power. These are the basics of all of us. The Constitution is never completely finished, and most of it is in articles such as Article 30. Which I mentioned earlier. The Constitution does not depend on natural laws or on parts of them; it is not like the weather, the mountains, or the sea. It's the work of men. The Constitution is not an external situation that we have nothing to say about. Rather, it is the constitution of the internal circumstances of the community that we personally travel together. We do this by making a covenant with one another regarding principles in our relationships, fundamental principles in our society, fundamental laws, fundamental laws, as the Constitution of neighboring countries, fundamental laws. It's the foundation under everything, living document. What is the need for a change in constitution or a new constitution? Many ask themselves that question. Why do we need to change this? Isn't this just fine just the way it is? Wouldn't this just make sense? many ask. Then I think that is to say that the current constitution has an uncertain nature. You sometimes feel that when you watch Icelandic society over the decades, it has been made up of fingers from legislatures and executives, almost every day of the leading rulers who have taken a number of legal decisions. This new constitution seems to me to be trying to establish more formality, more legality in an Icelandic society that I think is a cause for rejoicing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u40	Mr. President. In view of the final words of sharpness. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Andri son of Thorsson can I agree with him that it is important to increase government and legality in this country. I disagree with him, however, that 2011 administration proposals for the board have fallen. In fact, I basically disagree completely with him on how to interpret them. I think the uncertainty about the interpretation of rules will only increase and because it is available the proposals of the Council will not correct it, but will increase uncertainty. There are many things you can pick up. First, of course, there are important changes to the State's arrangement for the highest government, where more questions arise after reading than is answered, we can say. The same can be said of the change that takes place in place of the current rules that make up for some kind of national law that I think there are three, there will be different ways to bring in the seven National Pays. This adds to the uncertainty of both the interaction of individual resources and the interaction of representative democracy and the direct democracy. It's a factor that, in fact, is a factor. The Venetian Committee, sometimes referred to, drew attention to its time and was not changed to the council. Uncertainty regarding the interpretation of the rights law will be increased by changing their expressions and making significant improvements. There are other reasons where I think the proposals of a board of directors would give rise to uncertainty about the government and its rights, but not the opposite. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, there may be uncertainty about the interpretation of certain articles in a new constitution. I shall not try to draw feathers over the fact that lawyers know how to handle it, and new tradition will probably exist in the law books. I believe, however, that already the state is uncertain about a very large and important feature of our board of directors. I specifically mentioned one article pertaining to the President and his role. Happily, we have not yet received presidents who have chosen to use that article, but we could get such a person on the president's chair. I also believe in Icelandic society for some time and has been a long time, since collapse and in the past before collapse, not only uncertainty about various social rules, which the voice - latrines have often seen playing the table to interpret with high tact, let's say, but also much mistrust among the common people. There's a lot of dissatisfaction in the public. And I believe the public's distrust of the state's supreme government, including the institution that is and we stand for, is frightening and I believe that the contrary is going to do the people's will in a legitimate national fee is one of the fundamental reasons for the great distrust. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u42	V.E.G. President. Because of what? A senator's response was widespread, and I also intend to stop in many places in my second answer. First, I'd like to say that there's no particular disagreement about the 30th floor. The constitution may be removed. There's no one here who wants to stand up at around 30. The constitution. But that's about 30. The Constitution is foolish for us not to change all the rest of the constitution, not at all. There is no need to rewrite all 80 articles of the Constitution and add 35 new ones, although one article is clearly out - of - date and does not belong there. It is pointless to conclude that there is one such article. And I can mention three, four, five other articles, which I believed would be a good reason to reconsider. This does not give me reason or conviction that there is reason to change all the others, certainly not. So I say, in my opinion, the choice is not between not changing anything or changing everything. I think there's a gap between us. I think that it is possible to take account of the marked changes that could be tried to achieve as far as greater solidarity rather than to change everything that has been right and what may be out - of - date. I'm just saying, if you have to change tyres on a car, you change tires, you don't really change cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to point out some quality and detailed research. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, whom I don't think is a reason to question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u44	It's 80 times the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-13.u45	He has shown that it is highly overspoken that there is some kind of universal revolution in a constitution. On the contrary, she keeps herself open to her articles. The new constitution resembles a dominant constitution far beyond what humans have wanted to be. Hv. A senator speaks a lot about changing tyres and changing cars. But it's a bit like being on some piece of shit with even a flat tire, three wheels under the car, and still rattled him. And then it's just to let him rattle into it indefinitely and do nothing. There have been meetings here, and there have been committees appointed, and there has been a committee in hand trying to further any change in the constitution; Norwegian experts have been called to one another smarter, but nothing has happened for decades. There's only three wheels under the car and there's no way to rattle him - but he just hasn't driven.
