ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u1	The discussions take three rounds, each group eight minutes in the first round, five minutes in the second, and five minutes in the last round. The order of the classes will be this in all traffic: the central category, the Independence Party, the Conspiracy, the left movement a green supply, the Piratars, the forwarders, the exodus, and the group of the people. An outside party gets five minutes at the end of the first traffic. For the Central Party, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, 6th. We're out of here. "In the first round, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, 8th. Witchest. , in the second and third Karl Gauti Hjaltason, 8th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! The members of the Independence Party are Þórdís Kol Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir, traveling minister of industrial and innovation, on the first round, in the second Njáll of Friðbertsson, 6th. That's the north side. , and in third round Vilhjálmur Árnason, 9th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! For United States we speak in the first round of Oddný G. Harðardóttir, 6th. Southk., in another Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, 3th. Smoke. s., and in the third Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter, 10th. That's the north side. For the left movement, a green supply of Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, 7th That's the north side. "In the first pass, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, 5th. Southk., second and third, Rósar Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdóttir, 3th. We're out of here. Pirata's speakers are in the first round of Thorhldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, 4th. Smoke. So, at the second Halldóra Mogensen, 11th. Smoke. N., and Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, 3th. Smoke. n., third round. The High Priests are Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, 9th. That's the north side. "In the first pass, Willum Þór Þórsson, 9th. We're out of here. , in the second and third round of Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, 7th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! For responsibly speaking in the first round of Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, 7th. Smoke. So, second Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, 13th. We're out of here. , and third round Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, 7th. Smoke. n. For the Gang of the People, Inga Sæland, the 8th. Smoke. So, first and third round, but Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson, 12. We're out of here. , in the second round. A non-class senator, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, 9th. Smoke. n., speaking at the end of the first traffic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u2	President. Good citizens of the country. We are regularly reminded of where we live. The land of Grindavik is on the move, the lakes of Grima are likely and the ground is terrified in every way in the north. These movements also serve as a reminder of the good things nature has made us, but I am going to do so later. The crown virus is a threat to life other than a natural problem. There is no need to recall the misery and grief that a few families had to experience because of the virus, but there is good reason to thank those who have been awakened to care for the local people, the health - care providers, police, and the health - care providers, and others who every day risk themselves. The response to the epidemics is natural, and it has caused many of us, even though there are complex and difficult ways in which governments work, just as the bridge loans have not yet begun in spite of great statements about them. The members of the Central Party made the decision to point out large and general routes through advertising, since the government groups' interest in cooperation was small and agreed on accordingly. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter proclaimed new trades and powerful Parliaments, but as is so much of what has come from the government, the fancy press conferences are magnificent, the amulets from the P.R.S.'s manuals, but the content of very small, very small, Mr. President. Although the greater part is not willing to listen, we decided to participate in an effort to correct the government's plans and help with the issues presented in the battle against the consequences of the epidemic. Recently, however, governments have been struggling to complete a matter of Congress that has been given limited publicity in the committees of Generalis. We have managed to repair or get more work on all the big things, and some of us hopefully will be stored until later. There are no tactics, Mr. President, to walk in order against the government opposition, and to expect ministers to cover large, controversial and costly matters without much discussion throughout the council, under cover of the fact that the Congress's work is locked on issues related to the crown virus. President. Icelanders are a lucky people. We have water, clean water, clean water, plenty of land, and clear air, to name something, but most likely the sovereignty and the people are the most valuable. Being an independent, sovereign nation does not necessarily identify too many people around the world. International cooperation is of utmost importance to us, and it is likely that few will be as important as Icelanders. We must never sacrifice the sovereignty. The sovereignty is closely linked with the control and administration of the land's resources that are never to be sacrificed. The threats to the sovereignty include small but many decisions involving power or influence from foreign institutions or governments. This need to be avoided and examined regularly. Our ride should have taught us and may still have shown us how precious it is to have beautiful nature that people want to pay to examine. Nature above all else built up for the transport services that became the largest industry in the country. Although the shock of tourism is intense and has a far greater impact on the article, nature, does not make any of the major attractions of the country. It must be established as soon as we continue to use it in a respectful way for our benefit. President. Let us remember how precious it is to be able to produce energy and not depend on others on it, how precious it is to have a water supply on a global scale that makes sense to use it, to produce high - quality food through the latest technology that is largely of Icelandic roots, and how valuable agriculture is where pure Icelandic farms are essential. But we need to do more. We need to cut through the education system so that it is desirable and encouraging to as many people as possible to learn. We're here to emphasize our most important resource, our people. President. I miss the fact that there is no more discussion about the importance of Icelandic farming in this room. One of the first checks is that the Korean virus epidemic struck us as to how it would be available, whether food would not be enough, and production would not be disturbed. The agriculture needs to be protected and promoted by all means. The introduction of non-pregnant meat, which may contain large amounts of drug residues that increase the population's antibiotic resistance and may have serious consequences for the purity of Icelandic farm stocks, is time failure and carelessness. Good listeners. The environment is very important and has many aspects. Sadly, the government is now seated, and likely the one who sat ahead of it was endeavoring to use negative incentives to promote environmental problems. Why are positive incentives not beneficial? For example, people and companies through the tax system that are successful in the environment or are willing to do this, teach people to use the plastic bags over and over again, stressing the cycle economy, etc. Recently, in the media, we saw Jón Hjaltalín Magnússon presenting the work of the company ARCTUS, where new forms of electrodes can reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from the countries by one third. Just great results. President. All of us need to learn from our mistakes. But it's been something special for eleven years to listen to those who are always complaining about their practices, harassment, and bad spirits, pointing at the straw in their neighbor's eye but who do not see the rafter in their own eyes. The worst are those who suggest, sow seeds of dishonesty and harassment, but bathe themselves in the limelight as victims of the same. My fellow Americans. In the Middle East, we may be in a hurry to get in the way of government issues. We are not eager to get involved, but when it comes to basics, like taking up the European Union's one-sided energy policy through the energy package or sending the account to the state for the loss of the city, we'll take care of it. Today's politics are too little to deal with but more about packaging and séances, or the shakes are about to be written on the notes. Governments are to be centered on a vision of society and on a variety of ways to achieve that view. The vision and method should be the basis for reasoning. Good citizens of the country. Faced with economic challenges. Government funds have been brought together, and at the same time there is a great demand for additional expenses. In recent years, the state has been expanded with high costs paid by companies and individuals of the country. Today, in the last few yards of this council, several prime products of the government are waiting to increase the cost of government funds. There are dozens of jobs to be made with the other and these organisations and councils without the use of former guardians who used to extort government funds that held a small finger against it. We are to make the environment of companies and individuals simpler and better, e.g. ... witha reduction and later abduction of insurance fees. We have to look out specifically to reduce the booth, simplify the system, and raise the individuals in business, small and medium-sized enterprises that support the national sector. Good citizens of the country. Having an opinion, keeping it informed and fighting for it is not allowed everywhere. We have enjoyed discussing things, disagreeing or agreeing with them, having freedom of speech, and enjoying all opinions. No one opinion is correct, and it is quite dangerous, Mr. President, if we forbid or push under the surface opinions we do not want. Avoid the Orthodox, and take the discussion with those who promote opinions or policy issues that we do not like. The Council is supposed to be a guard of free exchange. My fellow Americans. Let's look at the democracy, the sovereignty, the freedom of speech and the unique quality of our country. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u3	A respectable president. My fellow Americans, closer and far. Looking at the scene in those days is a mixed feeling. On the one hand, we face a massive recession that is affecting the economy of the land, the survival of businesses, and the financial resources of thousands of families. The effects will last a long time, and they will likely still be fully formed. On the other hand, both professional life and society gradually return to normal, step - by - step, with the optimism that this development must arouse in us. It's known everyone who's observing the situation abroad that we've gone through the Covid epidemic with less noise on their daily lives than most people around us. The greatest honor this will bring to all the Americans, for taking our best experts seriously, but the biggest thanks goes to the public in all areas. Now we need to defend our efforts by remaining responsible and sensible. A victory against the plague is not at stake. We can't celebrate too soon. Or changing from a good saying: Covid has not been opened, even if it has been in the aus. Experience from the opening of the border has been good so far. The first steps were gentle, for caution is necessary both in order to create confidence and to minimize the risk of relapse. Watchfulness, along with regular revisions of the latest information, has been our guide, and they have proved to be good for us. We have a lot of money to keep going and to get our wheels started, as it is now predicted that the contractions of Covid will be only 9% this year and unemployment will be 11%. The projections are, therefore, more stringent and unemployment than the 2008 collapses of the bank. We have taken decisive measures to minimize the impact on people and businesses and contribute to a more powerful response. I don't need to explain it in a long way, because it's a long enough matter to include some of the main elements: the subsidies, payment of notices, bridge loans, support loans, relief grants, continuation of public paying taxes between years, children's reform, job search support, mental health campaigns, telecommunications grants, low-bussiness, summer supplies for students, food production, markets for international travel services and largely supported by new donations for development, increased research and development, Kía and temporary support companies with support for support. It is not even listed here, but the overall picture can be seen: In a few weeks, one of the greatest contractions has been reported in our late economic history. I would like to use this opportunity to declare that in this situation, which cannot be described as anything other than a crisis, it has worked with us rather than against us to have a government that is organized to reflect a broad range of political ideologies from right to left. It has also been important in these situations to keep in control categories that all have a measure of stability and inner strength and that do not panic even if they give up. I mentioned earlier that all the people of the country have credit for our success in the fight against Covid. In this regard, I would like to mention that the population is also involved in the resistance that is taking place. What I'm saying is that at the same time as we've experienced a severe economic recession, we've experienced social growth, social awakening, social offense. We have seen one another's spirit, positive outlook, and optimism. If one word can capture the core in the characteristics of our society that I'm trying to describe here, then it's probably an 0-twelfth. There is no doubt in my mind that the perseverance of our community is crucial to achieving the resistance, which will be our biggest project in the months and years. My fellow Americans. Here I mentioned who had been our guide in response to Covid. The task is not completed, but at the same time, we need to look more closely at the task of returning to life. And then we'll need a new guide. Lights in the front. The guide must be applying the individual initiative to increase the population income. Nothing is better to increase the income of the population than freedom of movement, a free individual enterprise. We sometimes talk about valuable things in this relationship, and that the state does not make valuable things but the individuals, but it is not quite accurate expressions, for it is more valuable than income. Safety, education, and health are examples of valuables that most of us agree that the State should share in securing us. But when it comes to earning money, no one will resist the freedom of movement and the individual progress of rotation. Freedom and enterprise are the energy that triggers the triggering of the nation's revenues. Because energy exchange is one of my missions as a minister, this could be said in a way that there will be no energy exchange for income generation. The operation of income will be motivated only by freedom and enterprise. The government can consider the plane, make sure it's okay, ensures good oxygen flow. And that is what we will do, especially by stressing innovation. What's gonna get us out of Covid is smart. We have already taken major steps on the basis of a new innovation policy and all the measures we have taken. The public can make the soil, but to benefit from it, he needs a wise and persistent promoter. In the effort of a pioneer, just what's most challenging is the persistence I mentioned earlier as a characteristic of our community. Another vital task is to arrange for the government. We need to cast the delusion of economic management into an operation that is worse for citizens. We simply cannot afford to operate our major systems in the same way and that is something that had become apparent for Covid. There's a project we can't ponder over to future generations. That would be a bad politics. My fellow Americans. Finally, I would like to quote some excellent last words in the strict national song of Þórdís Gísladóttir, by permission of presidents: Let us think about one another. Let us enjoy a better time. Let's grow our garden.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u4	Good citizens of the country. Happy summer. Happy New York summer. For the next few days, we don't want to hear these words: On the cool weather, the heat changes a little. Or, 'It is brought low upon the land, it is rain and rain.' Because we're going to travel within the country for the summer. We're going to take a breath of birch and fresh grass. We can take comfort in knowing that even if the predictions are not good in all the land at one time, they are always relieved. And the virus epidemic is going to pass. It may come back a setback, but it's a relief. Thank you very much for all your work HCPs at the time of the pandemic. Thank you very much for the police, teachers, and all of you who risked yourselves to make community walk in difficult times. Since the first transmission of Covid-19 has been detected here in the United States, the years have passed with the government to find a way out of the code. But we have not always agreed with the government. We want, for example. greater importance is to protect the economy of homes of people who have lost their jobs, the interests of children, and those who are vulnerable. We want a home and a company to have the government's backing in order to cover a difficult situation. High sums of money are now leaving the state funds for business. We want to do better, so it's easier for companies to maintain employment relations with their employees than to focus on helping companies break up people. And we want to establish a unique need for support. We feel totally inadequate to pass the funds that have been taking advantage of a tax field to avoid paying their share with society. Astrologers have always fought against tax fraud. We cannot accept that rich people make use of tax ornaments and share them with others in the welfare system. They need to work against that social ill. But the government shrugs. She knows about corruption, but she does nothing. We in the United States would like larger companies to bring up a climate plan before paying money from the state funds. Transparent seas and press conferences are not enough to cope with human climate disaster, which is mankind's largest subject. Many other countries have set such conditions when giving assistance to companies. But Iceland's government says now is not the time. When will the right time come to counteract the climate that threatens all life on earth? Not now, says the government of Iceland. Yet, because Iceland does not fulfill its international commitment to climate. The government's press conference earlier today was disappointing. We can and should do much better. It must be a green society and a powerful job life. My dear Icelanders With travelers in many countries and the limitations of various kinds within and outside the country stand vulnerable to travel services. The job article, which in a few years became the largest one in the country in the country, was in serious trouble. The relative income of the nation's population of tourism was much higher here in the country last year than in the countries we compare with. In fact, even more than in Greece. Thus, our situation here at home will be different and greater than that of neighboring nations in this regard. The lack of employment has increased rapidly, and the situation, such as in the Southnes, has become very bad in the South, as it were in the South, in the North Valley and in the Skulls. There are other places, though, where much of the income has come from the tourist service. To that end, the government needs to look specifically and enter with specific solutions in cooperation with local government officials. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do with it. I don't know what to do with it. A basic non-employment is a long way under the minimum wage. We in the United States want the improvement to increase, like a minimum wage, but our proposal has been rejected by the government. Thus, financial support of a home where the economy has collapsed must come from rural areas and from relief efforts to volunteers because the government is holding hands. But rural society too has lost income. They are directed to render service to children and disabled individuals along with other local services. Another requirement is that rural society operates in a natural way and reduces expenses. The government has to expand its implementation and its national strategy. Your rural society will not be able to cope with this great problem. In the United States, there is a greater balance of income than there are in most other countries. Yet, many here are poor and suffer want. Among the worst terms are the poor and older citizens who have to rely on the insurance markets. Thousands of children live in homes that support themselves under poverty, and many Icelandic children go to sleep. At the same time, some mate. Have shaved up unjudged wealth with access to national resources. We in the United States want to settle this game and eliminate poverty. And we want to make sure that rich people give their fair contribution to the welfare of the family. The profit of the resources flows to the nation, not all of it in the pockets of small families. This has to change, or it's not equal. We have been informed about what our fishing system has done to the Samherja fishing business and how its owners have used that position in order to make more money, even by questionable means and who seem to be a criminal at the expense of a poor nation in Namibia. We are living in a danger that by means of contracting sources, few people will be in such a great state that they will be in a position to direct ministers. These trends need to be reversed and protected by the coastal areas of the country. Like Namibia, we are faced with dangers of corruption. It is a shame that the government has ignored the proposals of a government Council for a new constitution and the national law to which it was requested to lay the basis. The good people of these unusual times have sent us a clear message. Our health system must be for everyone, in the highest order, and under pressure at all times. We're going to have to submerge more support. The balance of the game and the elimination of poverty is needed. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u5	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. If anyone had told me in September. When it was decided that we would be dealing with avalanches, violent storms, pandemics, and global economic crisis, I would likely have considered the person half - old. But this winter brought all its challenges, and now we are gathered here on the final days of the council. It is therefore worth a brief consideration of the effects both within the council and at the outside. It was a winter marked by unprecedented times, disasters that exasperated old wounds in the national soul, but it also brought forward a sense of solidarity, cooperation, and power in the Icelandic nation. I have found that sitting during a pandemic was a special experience. We senators faced the challenge of making countless decisions, working fast, and sometimes 24 hours a day. Many are to be thanked for their efforts. Of course, it is at the head of the Þórólfur, the Víðir, and Alma, who kept the nation enlightened each day and thus calmed the nerves of a fearful nation. Similarly, Stefánsson's Kári and the Icelandic genetics department lifted a initiative as well as all the invisible heroes in progress, including the U.S.A. The business staff, the police, the ambulances, and especially our health care providers. Healthcare professionals working 24 hours a day, every day of the year, and not just when they are going through a pandemic. The people who risk their lives to save us the rest. This is one of my favorite things: how precious it is to have a good public health system and an enormous amount of human resources. In all the emergency of getting land and nation to shelter from unknown virus, though, I never doubted that I would succeed. You see, we have a solid lead, both in the Ministry of Presidency and in the Ministry of Health, which this spring and the rest of the Board of Directors. It is at times where large and difficult decisions need to be made, that doubts silence the right person. I am very proud to stand here as chairman of the Left Green, and it matters who are in charge, especially in difficult times. It is a challenge to be a minister of the environment and resources in times where the world's eyes are never before directed to the seminary. However, when Covid arrived and gates needed the most important protection in Iceland, a highland park, until the fall. But our good environmental minister continues to press on. Today, he, along with the government, introduced an ambitious climate action program that allows 46 billion to be spent in action for the next five years. The plan of action shows that we will not only fulfill international commitments but also do even better. During the week, on the very day of the Festival of Nations, there was also one of the most precious elements of the Icelanders, the Gestapo, the peace - related region, and the week before Gordras, in the Shivering River, which should be celebrated. A respectable president. My fellow Americans there are some things that have won this winter more than the thirty cases that have needed our attention for Covid-19. Thus, during the dawns, a brand - new student loan system in Iceland, a college education fund. In other words, the student movement's fight for many years is at the root of increased support and righteous systems. We have also extended obscenity, secure the justice of informers, established a Crime, a new and powerful innovation fund, and adopted the first prevention programme among children and adolescents against sexual and sexual violence. We have provided health services for people with addictions through consumerism, legalized to the north for the example of three stages of taxation, and completely controlled by laws on nature protection. All of these are matters that we senators of the left green are proud of, for all of us, to improve people's lives in one way or another. My dear audience, I went into politics to influence our community and to make it even better. The work is good, and some are persistent. One of these advantages is improved by society's worst. Our left - eyed view is that social emphasis is best done, and despite the fact that there are many unworked factors, it is certainly a joy to look over this year's journey and see many of these good things taking place. These issues are added to the long list of developments established by this government. The land hospital rises, the freedom of women over their own bodies is confirmed, the sexual autonomy has been legalized, and major steps have been taken in transport energy exchange. A respectable president. My dear Icelanders. When we stick together, we are the strongest. This winter has indeed been difficult in many respects, but what has also characterized it is the cooperation and cooperation that we have experienced. Although we senators at times tackled here within the house, society as a whole joined together. Our lives were turned about at a rate of record, but we were adjusted as hard as we could. New technology took over our lives, distance suddenly became the day for many, not the future. We became brighter than we had to work, not having to be confined to a specific location, and we have reason to make a firm and government decision to increase the number of jobs without a location. Many classes have responded to new realities, including Teachers and students who accepted a changed situation and did so with great respect. Thus, we all put our hands to the battle against this invisible enemy, came to know new solutions as we watched over our most vulnerable brothers and sisters. Good listeners, we are now in the envyful position of being able to receive more and more tourists, one of the few peoples throughout the world. The success of Iceland's government led by the left green in the battle against Covid is discussed in many parts of the world and should not be surprised. Now we step into the summer and travel within the country, and I hope that as many as possible can take advantage of government travel. In social media, new memories come from camping, housing, and family trips across the country. However, nature continues to remind itself that these days terrify earth in my home on the Grinch. Our nature here in Iceland is magnificent, but it can also be treacherous, and it is important that we never forget that the key to living here is to live in peace and harmony with the forces of nature. This may also be part of our success toward the battle against Covid. We are accustomed to taking natural disasters seriously and working together as a team when they pass over. But we still need to be on guard. We still need to take our personal precautions seriously and take care of our own Covid-19. But now is the summer, and the night is full of light, and we press on. I would like to finish my discussion by quoting Jóhannes's words úr the Katlar that have been in my mind this winter by permission of a president: The spring comes, the world is warm, My heart! My fellow Americans Enjoy this summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u6	President. Dearest people in the country. We who live in Iceland want to create a just society, where everyone sits at the same table. Unlike our background, we have the responsibility for the inheritances of our generations, our country, our history, nature, our language, and our culture. So close are the opening words of the new constitution as the overwhelming majority of voters agreed to make a new Community Convention for Iceland. It's been eight years, and we're all still not sitting at the same table. In fact, sometimes you seem to have two countries living in Iceland. You can find a fine description of this shift in the 40-year-old polar bear's blouse Bubba Morthes. On the one hand, the shop robber sits and laughs, as the chart shows that there are more performances today than yesterday. However, the woman standing on the plane since yesterday has bloody fingers and smelly toes. The robber sits inside the warmth and has ample access to opportunities and funds. He can always call a friend and ask how he is. Good weather out there, isn't it? Then, when the shoe squeezes into the economy, it even gets a government scholarship to run its staff so that the scale keeps going. And if he breaks the law, he'll have a six-year adjustment period to change his mind. On the other hand, the woman on the plane is buried in the cold and is told that she belongs there. When her salary fails for food, she is told that she does not read enough about financial matters. If she steals the crown's sandwich with hunger, they send it to jail. Some get to make money during the day and barbecue at night, while others can never get anything. Dearest nation. Nurse Helga Friðjónsdóttir, so, with permission of the president: ▪ The nurses who spoke expressed their feelings of disrespect, shame, insignia, silence, and lack of interest in them. They expressed the lack of understanding of what nurses really do at work and, to some extent, a surrender related to this long struggle. Nurses' experience grieves me, but I'm not surprised. How should they feel when they are at the highest level? Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary of finance makes a note of the tone of their fight? After a whole pandemic? The Tone? So little worth is the nurse's contribution to the Minister's mind that a court of law now needs to determine their pay for the second time. The man who has almost four times the average nurse's pay is reasonable their requirements for a pay raise out of all credit cards, and he may also move on his side if he becomes involved. And this from a man who received over 100,000 calls on a single board, only less than his major co-worker in this government, the highest. Prime and equal minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir. In 2018 this same man said exactly the same thing about midwives'demands that have also ended twice in a series. In fact, he went so far the first time he refused to pay them for the work they did during the strike and needed a Supreme Court to pay them. Jarement, silence, lack of respect, lack of understanding. This experience of nurses is not unique in Icelandic society. In fact, a straggler is a strategy that rulers cruelly use to beat down anyone who dares make his voice sound with a tone that their rulers dislike. They know the poor and disabled. This is known to small - paying classes, older citizens, and foreigners. And this knows scholars, pointing out that the Independence Party is the leading theme of corruption. Dearest nation. Also, we can't act like the system-based rasism that is still in the west of the ocean is not known to be present in sweet Iceland. It is made clear in the cruel bill that the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir has now contributed three times to weaken the rightfulness of refugees. It is evident in the fact that a pregnant Albanian woman is excommunicated. He appeared in the police's joy over her new border car, which she's going to use to stop cars with people who look like foreigners to, by President's permission, to determine if they're the ones they claim to be. And it showed that in May 40% of the unemployed foreign citizens were, although only 15% of the population in Iceland. President. Government messages are clear: Only those acceptable to the power will be allowed to be part of the community of Iceland. The others are not invited. There's a party here, says it's power, and it sees all the wrong people. It's just not everyone's invitation. Nurse, do you say? You're not invited. A midwife? You're not invited. An invalid? An older citizen? You're not invited. An importer? A foreigner? Did Guð forbid, take refuge? You don't belong here, and you're not invited at all. These error lights of rulers are only weapons in their hands while we allow this to continue. For there is a small thing that has and can be done. And it can be small when all these groups of rulers are perimeterd and pushed into the cold, realizing their size and intensity. This is well illustrated by the recent defeat of low - paying people, who activated the cohesion. So I would finally say to the nurses, to the fishworkers, to midwives, to the poor, to the elderly, and to the disabled, to all of you who are kept out of the cold: you are invited. You all belong here. I'd like to say to all the great immigrants, refugees and fugitives living here, by permission of a president: You belong here. Bahn khun xyu tai ni. Wasz Dom jist ttaj. Dito smells like it. Or in Icelandic: This is where you belong. Because we who live in Iceland want to create a just society, where everyone sits at the same level as where our ethnic background makes a whole better place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u7	A respectable president. The good people of the country. At the end of the summer solstice in 2020, we plan here the work of the past months and consider the next subjects. Lately, cooperation and oversight have indeed been tested in a wide variety of projects and jobs throughout the country. I claim that a year ago none of us would have predicted that now we had become highly trained as a public defender. We live in interesting, demanding, and learning times, but there have never been other opportunities as far as there is now to deal with the threat of nature by knowledge and technology. It has proved to be important to make good use of knowledge, as we Icelanders have done in the past few months. We know that we will continue to experiment with public protection and processing consequences of the code, winter weather, and earthquakes, and we will need cooperation and management as well as to maintain jobs, create new jobs and provide the well - being of all the people of the country. The most extensive projects in my last month's work are linked to transportation. This loss is a turning point in transport, which is back in nearly a decade of slow motion. A little over a year ago, a treatment plan was completed, but now we're putting up an updated plan with even more money to play and projects being further developed. There is a lot of fermentation in transport projects led by the advance party and many air bolts, including the U.S. Work on research, organization, design, environmental assessment, and negotiations. A wide variety of ways we funde projects and a global review of the road financing in the light of existing energy exchanges is being accomplished. The early route of flight is to be carried out during the year, a project based on the transport contract of the capital area, and a tunnel plan will be initiated by the analysis of soils and long - term priorities. We'll be running out of transport in such a rural country as Iceland. Imagine, over the next 15 years, the plan is to reduce the number of single bridges on highway 1 by 30. The design of transport workers is a major factor in the development of society and settlement. The projects such as this create thousands of jobs for a wide variety of people in many lands. Investment and transport progress are a counterweight factor against the code's contractions and the basis for new instruments. Work on the development of a wide range of counter measures has been a vast task that many people have endeavored to solve. The part - time ministry hit the finish line, but there was great uncertainty when the council approved it. More than 37,000 individuals took advantage of the first export and were involved in an employment relationship with fewer than 6,500 remuneration workers. The combination of the part - time work route and the pay for the environment strengthened all the contaminating measures and made it possible for many to obey Víðir. In addition to commercial action, a wide variety of social measures have been undertaken. In the near future, government needs to emphasize motivation for those who have the primacy and self - preservation efforts to increase the number of jobs. Governments have already set up resources to maintain employment, and thereafter they need to support more fully the thinking of employers, small and large, in order to create new jobs. New creation, transfer of knowledge, improved resource consumption, and raw materials increase value. It requires a wide variety of support because projects are not only viewed but also viewed as increasing jobs in traditional trades and financial growths in the community. An increasing attendance for work and technical education is just an opportunity to interact with new jobs. In this context, the Minister of Education and Culture, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir's daughter, and the government's decision to secure funding in order to pursue an increased college and college application in the fall of a key decision. During the last few weeks, there has been significant improvements in public knowledge and skills in the long - range work and flexible work arrangements. It is important to make a conscious decision to further improve these skills. But that's not enough. It also needs to ensure that the labour market rules and public systems support the flexibility. The fourth industrial revolution, electronic management, telecommunications, and telecommunications, give us amazing tools. We need to make sure that Iceland is an option for people who want to be employed anywhere in the world. More often, we need to ask ourselves, " How can I use long - range work to strengthen national activities? ' I have emphasized the improved law on land management and resource use, as well as the measures to strengthen the basis for the follow-up of such rules. The purpose is to ensure the nation's possession of resources and provide additional opportunities for entire areas of rurality, sustainable agriculture, innovation and food production. What a joy it is, then, that these provisions, including some of them, are now under way. with the production of land ownership files, increased transparency to land share and increased minority protection in hunting communities. Great public interests are in the administration and management of the country, and the same rules cannot apply to the purchase and sale of land and other real estates. More improvements are needed, and one of them is an improved rural planning. There I am stressing the care of the best farm for food and food production. In addition, valuables can be created through national protection, recovery of ecosystems, and carbon binding. We do not have to choose between the hydrocarbons, the recovery of wetlands, or land healings. We're supposed to take care of all of this, but we're going to have a good choice of land for different projects. Working under the leadership of Ministers of Social Affairs, Ásmundur Einar Daðason's son, the improvement in children's affairs will be a major success at the autumn Parliament. There are bills that will be produced from crosspolitic work, and broad consultations will be submitted. The integration of all services to children and families and early support, as well as the prevention of increasing the toughness of people in the sea of life. Changes in the hysteria are already begun. A respectful president and a fine citizen of the country. We cannot allow ourselves to have one subject on the program, the subjects to be numerous, as both of us are looking ahead and responding to today's challenges. If we are careful, the rearview mirror needs less than usual. As progressive people, we are socialists who want to make constant improvements and solve the issues on the basis of cooperation and balance. Our work at the General Assembly is to unite and encourage progress in all areas, the results measured in the benefits of society. On the road and good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u8	My fellow Americans. I'm going to talk here about shelter and villainry. But first of all, I want to thank with all my heart the many who have been standing by the long and strict duty of Covid for the rest of us. Yours certainly is the honor. It is a great challenge to separate the actions and inaction of the government from the beginning of the ideal period of conditions due to the Korean epidemic. The economic contractions had already begun before the virus developed. However, the traveling overseer has helped the government to cover the economic situation. We live in a situation that could somehow be described: Three political parties confused areas, hoping to maintain what was right. The yellow root was a significant increase in the rate of government spending. It was all quite unremarkable, since the government was creating everything other than a clear outlook for the future in a changing world. Ancient ideals were put in the seat of honor. The rearview mirror was widely used, and it is never safe to drive. Then Covid-19 knocked on the door, and thereafter the demand for targeted action on the part of the government became louder and louder. Even though much has been won, the situation remains that there is more to it than mere fact. So yesterday's State Radio explained that no company had yet received a loan or a sponsor loan, something that was before more than three months of presentation as one of the most influential operations of the government in the Covid epidemic. The so - called bridge loans have been a key factor in the interviewing of many of our neighboring countries, who managed to complete the case at the appropriate time and thus come to the aid of companies. Maybe it's a certain way too late for this trip, but hopefully something else will be replaced by something else on time. The government beat before it was neutral. The three drivers did not listen to loud warning messages, especially to us in the woodland, regarding signs of extreme global coldness long before Covid set in. When it was no longer enough to pretend to hear or to see, the reaction was a little too much to take on the gas but to forget to gear. However, it is not that the government was in total wealth, and we have been able to help and continue. However, a valuable time has been spent with the government for the sake of special interest. The three government parties are protected from e.g. Of course, the requirement is, not for permanent sale, but for temporary agreements. And this in its constitution underscores the fact that the sea resources are the property of an Icelandic nation. President. Now, a few days before the end of the council, dozens of cases from the government are waiting. Too many of these cases are, in effect, being under insufficient publicity and development in the treatment of the council. How long some cases have been waiting for granted is not a measure of quality. Too many of these cases are so compatible with the rights of people, basic rights such as property rights, consumer protection, and personal protection. Hopefully, the hardened and inhuman laws of justice for foreigners have entered the saltpits after a heavy criticism of government opposition, as if a prime minister's information bill had made it virtually impossible for the media to obtain information in their power of law. But just the fact that these efforts have been made on the part of the government is a concern, stressing the importance that the government is always on guard. Mr. President. The Covid-19 virus has thus proved to be a judicious government when it comes to driving a badly prepared case through the council at record speed. But it is also interesting to consider what cases are not on the list. These include some of the issues of freedom that were presented back then by well - thought - out introductions or campaigns in community media. I'm talking about issues like increasing people's freedom to hire their own names, increasing their freedom in a cab market with segregation and choice for users, freedom to sell their own production and freedom to buy alcohol in Icelandic Internet stores, not just foreign ones. Also, the freedom to buy free drugs in public stores. The only case that reached a high level of protection by members of the government was the matter of eating space for people with addiction problems at its highest level. With the loyal support of the government's opposition, a health minister reached its port. Then there is an unnamed case list of environmental ministers, who, rather, became better involved with the cutting knife, likely no time for any anticipated conflict between the administrations there. It is no doubt correct, but it is wish that the environment will be more prominent in the government program for the next winter. Good listeners. The world has faced many challenges in connection with the Korean epidemic. Sadly, when uncertainty and conflict are prominent, human rights and freedom often come under attack. It says of the severity of the Korean epidemic that many old democracies have taken action that at least at one time would have been impossible. In times of peace. But it is also a fact that in many Western and established democracies, people such as us are generally considered to be fair and do little to protect basic human rights. That's not a good development. Not only are we under obligation to protect the rights and interests of those who live by laws and regulations and who do not stand out as different. Another role of society, and certainly nothing less, is to protect the interests of those who do not fit in. No matter what reason it is. Perhaps by violating established rules. Maybe just by being different in some way. The kind of shelter is that we always protect the value of personal freedom. No matter how small, let's not give it up without a fight. On this point, the final peace of society must prevail. Not only when it comes to our freedom but also when it comes to freedom of others. You see, we can easily be in their position tomorrow. It's in our hand. - I appreciate your audition. Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u9	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. This is the third time I've had the pleasure of sharing in kitchen Sunday talks at the General Assembly. It may, therefore, be appropriate to look back and see what we have accomplished in the issues that have been most difficult for the people. I have repeatedly come up, not just pointing out, but shouting for justice to tens of thousands of Icelanders in so vastly poverty that they are standing in length with their children to ask for food. It's Iceland today. It hasn't changed at all. I'm gonna tell you an official secret; the only dresser that the poorest people have ever had since I came to the Council is a correction index of 1st January every year. There is not even a correction on the current social security law of 1.mg. 69. g., saying that pay should be corrected according to general pay development in the country at any given time. No, the pay is corrected by consumer science, and the pay range has grown to a high in those days, the relics being great in the past ten years, that it is less than 30%. And now, a respectable president, and now, good Americans, the gang has fallen after the Covid epidemic, all of whom are familiar, and I am not going to spend my time talking about unless to say, "Thank you all who have kept us on the float, health workers, all of you thank you, for without you we probably do not stand here. But what I'd like to talk about with the official secret is that 17% of the crown's fall has caused all those who were poor and in their poverty trap when I was standing here in kitchen days a year ago, only poorer and harder to make ends meet, because the nature of the case, according to all the consumption, all the forwards, all the necessities of the fall of the crown. But what do we do? What do we do, my fellow Americans? What do we do, good Senate, great government? The people have not failed to take any action, all the matters we consider to be a good subject for the people of the country. But how does this work? How can we work on our affairs at the High Council? Yes, we have staff, we are senators, we bring bills, we want to show that we are here to work for our voters, the people who chose us to do the job. But do we get our affairs through here? No, we just don't. The government situation can eat what is out of the water. That's the fact. The crowd of 18 cases are now in the hands of committees, just before vacation, 18 cases, all for the benefit of the poorest people in the country, all business for the poorest people in the country. And politicians wonder that the high Council has no trust. There are more things in this country than in a business. Although we have to save our companies to keep our professional levels going, although we have to do everything naturally, it is quite remarkable that the government is actually paying for pay on notice, that the government should simply encourage companies to resign their employees, simply encourage increased unemployment. The people feel that despite a very difficult year's trip, not all companies in the country are on their heads. We believe that there are some companies that are so stopped that they can take on a particular shovel and stay behind. We realize that in recent years many companies have created a very productive business ground and have made financial gains. These companies are not supposed to have to search the taxpayers' pockets, not to take care of the rescue cycle, and the lifeline that the government throws at them. That's never been the point. However, we often become attached to our trust in good things. We have fallen prey to this because for some reason there are always some who want to misuse the kindness and help offered to them. But the saddest part of all is that we don't realize that there is a large group in the community that needs our help, who don't enjoy what you're talking about: Let's work together. Be kind to one another. We have a great health system. Everything is so great for us. It's just not true. This is just for some people, not for everyone. With the tens of thousands of Icelanders placed in a garden and crushed into poverty, I say: I'm sorry I didn't hear more of what I've been trying to fight for, on your behalf. I'm sorry that all 18 cases, all for you, are being held on the Council and not allowed to come here for votes. I'm sorry. But that does not mean that we have failed to achieve certain results, which I am proud of. But we've not been spending public money so far in the market to show how great we are and what results we've achieved. But I'll call you and do it right here and now: It'll be improved. All of us shall know how we have walked here in the High Council and what we have accomplished. Not that everyone will be surprised to find out that they suddenly get more into their book: No, oops, did I receive some correction from a insurance agency? If not, because it's January 1st, it's because a group of people accomplished it. One thing is what we got through which the whole world of Congress went on to end with fairness and justice. And I want you all to know, poor cripples, and those who have been strengthened by poverty to buy medicine and equipment, that the matter has gone through with the people of Stockholm. I challenge the government and all of you are about to put your arms around our smallest brothers and sisters and show what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u10	President. Ladies and gentlemen. During the past few weeks, society has shown that the greatest challenges can be faced if the will is there. The lives of all of us became radically altered, the state has taken on huge operations, and the forwarding classes have gone on a tremendous scale. All of us suddenly made the sole point that all of us who built this land would be able to get through a pandemic crown virus. This experience should be a source of inspiration to us. You can think of a great deal, and big, fast action can be taken when the need is great. The specifications have often been present before. I would like to mention three matters that would certainly be needed in a comparable way to the Korean virus. I think about it when I first took part in a kitchen day. Then it was 2015, and I specifically mentioned the #Free The Nipple, where young women and girls made the public aware of digital sexual abuse. Some things have happened since then, but the disease itself is still there. The digital sexual abuse law - which was the main theme of the protest - is finally called the next fall. It takes six years for politics to respond to this clear and determined plea. The protesters have grown up and have received clear messages that their voices, their security, and their protests are by no means the most important thing. Then there's the climate issue. To fight for the future, youths around the world cry out quickly to meet in climates all the major conflicts of the community we want to build. Climate righteousness is the basis for health, balance, equality, and peace in the coming years and decades. The government proposed its first action program on climate matters in the autumn of 2018, but it could hardly be considered complete. Today, an updated and fully developed plan was finally introduced, a year later than it was expected. Happily, these measures are taking longer to assess the cost and effectiveness of measures than before. One, however, is especially surprising in a new plan of action. A reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is estimated to be 35%. This goal in the new schedule is the same as in the first, which foretold a reduction of 30 to40% in emissions. So the government's advancement in climate is the same - almost in the percentage - and it was two years ago, although in the meantime all developments were on the way that much more drastic measures were needed. The amount of money has gone up. The budget will be 9 billion per year, but if we put this in context, the council agreed with a similar amount, about 8 billion, in reimbursement of the value tax this year due to improvements in housing. So the campaign all wins the same amount as the government's climate package. Finally, I'd like to mention the wave of the world's protests against racial hatred and prejudice. The beginning is the Black Lives Matter movement and police violence in the United States, but this should be a reason for all of us to face the challenges we face in this country. This requires a radical view in most areas. For example, the Minister of Justice laid down. Recently, a bill that is more efficient in sending horrified people to countries that have become dangerous to the inmates. The police recently dedicated their border car to do butts at work places, focusing on action against working people and sending them out of the country. However, there seems to be nothing to be done to hold the employer responsible, for it seems that the government's game plan is freezing out. Instead of making the community secure for the diverse population of people living in the land, governments choose to be harsh in their dealings with immigrants, despite repeatedly calling on the common people for something else. In the last few months, we have seen how society can turn into an emergency. During the metabolic period of sexual violence, rasism, and climate, there are no fewer conditions than a pandemic crown virus. People deserve to be treated with the same intensity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u11	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. We've only recently received the confirmation we already knew. In the nation there is an amazingly efficient, tenacious nation. This was recently proved true when the health system passed the test it has faced. This is especially so by means of some of the institutions that run the nursing homes that provided the basis for this success. They immediately resorted to disease prevention, which was sure to have saved lives. This is an example of how public health care and personal employment work together. Such arrangements should continue. Each one can learn from the other and from competition always benefits the one who has to make good use of the ministry. We are fortunate that there are many organizations, each with a limited share of health care. These include the services of an enterprise, which includes a series of aggressive, more aging institutions, and AESU as well as other treatment institutions. Each of them takes on a large part of the population, the elderly, who will increase in number with a higher life span, and on the other hand, people who have addictions. Of course, the cancer community and the basic work it has been doing over the years must be mentioned. I must, my fellow Americans, mention in this matter of the Pita organization specifically but they have a preemptive job against suicide and support those who have lost their loved ones who have died at their own hands. All such organizations support us. The problem of all of these organizations is not necessarily funded for building but, rather, communication with the existing government. It wants to point everyone at the same booth. One major social system. Such an arrangement is not new and has never given up properly. Politicians often jump into instant solutions. It's human, so don't forget that politicians are human beings. When cases, often sensitive, get high - sounding, politicians would like to join a knight at the expense of such matters to their own glorification. The gift is spoken of in humanitarian terms, and the rules and regulations do not apply. The middle class thinks in long-term solutions. These include: The health of the aged, the prevention and the health of the people. The best investment you can make is prevention, any name called. A field of prophylaxis won't come right away, so he'll do it after a certain time. Prevention must never be thought of as a challenge. It is a long - term race. We stress that people do not suffer needlessly; we want to shorten a waiting list not only to reduce the suffering of people but also to support them into the workforce. It's from all sides of the world that makes sense. V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. We have a clear understanding that the health system was paralyzed to a large extent when the Covid epidemic hit. Inevitably, waiting lists were prolonged after action. Now, though, let us stop beating our heads at the stone and use all the resources available here. Let us not submit to the claims that the Kingdom is the only government to care for health care. The interests are simply too great. - My fellow Americans. Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u12	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. This year has been difficult for many. Some lost someone close to them, and others have been in financial trouble. The Covid epidemic has affected all of us. Because we have a strong, varied life of employment, we are all shocked by the shock of professional life. A powerful source of valuables and exports is the basis for the welfare and quality of life of the nation. In Iceland, as in other parts of the world, economic developments are very uncertain. The World Cash Fund predicts the greatest recession in the global economy since the Great Depression in the 1920's and 1930's. Uncertainty is unusually high, and economic developments depend on how to eliminate dangerous viruses and restore the economy's wheels. Truly, these predictions are not bright, but remember that these are temporary conditions. And if a government fund has ever been on the move to react to the down cycle like this, now it is. Since the 2013 State of Independence, society's wealth has increased by a third, and the United States' debt is now with the lowest known in the Western world. The mission was clear. Accountability in government affairs and rapid subsidies. We're not too excited about the bow. We were firm and responsible. Now we enjoy its fruits. The government has stepped in vigorously and increased the government's investments in order to increase the demand for the economy. We were committed to jobs, gave loans to companies and strengthened companies who had a down payment. We've been helping children, dropping taxes, and putting off paydays. We've helped the economy help themselves. There are times when I ask myself why I chose politics, when all powder has to do with matters that are of little importance and that are at the expense of bigger and more important matters. Then I am so grateful to hear of the baker who was able to keep all his people working for the part - time benefits, the family who run the small boarding house and got through the hardest of her hair and who could happily pay off his salary and support his family during the month because of the closing strength. It is these experiences that convince me that I will continue to look for solutions. That what we do is work and people are important. The work we've had to deal with these past few months has been difficult. Not all of this has been easy, since there are many different categories, but we have managed to climb the most incredible mountains. This is exactly the strength of the government community. It takes democratic maturity to work together on a broad foundation and to achieve a greater degree of peace, but it is my faith that this very thing proved to be the rock of the sea when it broke down with the turbulent waters in which we now live. My fellow Americans. The problems are not behind them. It is our responsibility here at a council to keep a scour for national goods and national goods. The interests are all of us. Hopefully, we have the wisdom to use our present situation to benefit the future. We are able to use our time to ensure greater efficiency, production, and competitiveness. A powerful career and a powerful welfare system are held together. A talk about the fourth industrial revolution is taking place worldwide. It is not only about the technological changes that the term applies, especially in the field of automation and artificial intelligence, but also about what community changes will occur. Icelandic society is open to new technologies, and the land is a high - tech fortress that helps us to take the next steps in technology's efficiency. This can be seen in the success of the photoengineering industry. But we must not let our guard down and become passive viewers of technology. Not only have governments set goals but they have taken major steps in support of research, evolution, and innovation. It is my firm belief that there is great opportunity in the fourth industrial revolution for Icelandic society. Emphasis on innovation is growing, and this is a level of education. The record numbers are in college applications, and the government has decided to ensure both college and colleges are high enough to attend a high school record application. We must also ensure a fair tax environment so that there will be competitive employment, increase government management, and maximise what we receive from each dollar. We must simplify regulations and give strong support to innovation, which is essential for building and making new opportunities. Good citizens of the country. Let us not listen to the speaker's voices or to those who feed on the pessimism of predictions. They rarely come true. We will be able to endure the hardships together and reap what is sown. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u13	Good Icelanders. I'm not gonna talk about Covid-19's pandemic. But I'm going to talk about another epidemic that causes a lot more deaths than this virus. It's an epidemic that's not talked much about. It's an epidemic of abuse and addiction. Because of this epidemic, one Icelander dies every 12 days, resulting from suicide. Then another Icelander dies after another 12 days because of his overdose and is the sad northern meth we have. This number is so large that it would be like an international flight between Reykjavík and Akureyri would crash every year. In addition, Iceland has a worldwide record of the consumption of antidepressants and anxiolytics, and hundreds of Icelandic youths engage in some kind of self - injury. As a community, we are now dealing with virus. But we also need to fight together against feelings of distress, depression, loneliness, and addiction. These diseases kill, too. It is empty to talk about economic growth, land production, and buying power if we feel bad. And the sad situation is that every six days some of us die from feelings of distress and addiction. So we in politics are to discuss these matters much more than I think that cases are larger than those that concern themselves with happiness. In such a situation, it is also important to have a vision for the future. Something we can look to with anticipation in our hearts. Today, there are difficult times in business, and this also affects the spiritual well - being of the people of the land. The fall is forecast of increasing unemployment, since this government lacks all hope for the future. After the collapse, the Union adopted a special green investment plan. There is no interference with this government, which puts 75% of its action into two depressing measures, i.e. Residual unemployment and subsidence. Think of it: Only 5% of the government's actions go into innovation. Only 5% in innovation to face the deepest crisis for 100 years. It would be a wish that we now have a government that would put the top of technology, creative articles, art, and innovations of all kinds. We now need a government that will create jobs instead of merely bringing an end to them. We now need a government that'll raise benefits to the poor and older citizens. And we now need a government that pays the nurses a decent salary but does not force them and midwives into a strike. Good Icelanders. Iceland can be the land of opportunity. But it's not today, at least not for everyone. At the same time that Iceland's Red Cross runs a special fund called the Surgeon Fund, a paper headline appears here that Iceland's luxury car sale is an oil state. At the same time as 1% of the richest Icelanders have more possessions than 80% of the population, there are 6,000 children living in poverty. And at the same time as one developer walks out with 22 billion in his pocket because of the use of the nation's common resource, fishing costs have decreased by half. This government is a government that guards the interests of the few in times of trial. The Independence Party has never concealed that fact. Progress is satisfied with resolution and the same state of affairs. Left greens are a conservative party, but princes do not seem to get much in the way of that category. So we need a new government that has different thinking and functions. We need a government that will build a powerful core in the country. Arguing should be as a powerful center of northern Europe as a town, but not a town, building up Isafjörður, Smokeytown, Western Island, Aarhus, Aarhus, and other towns in the East, with more public activity, more intensive transportation and opportunities for all. We need a government to take care of the small companies, the industrialists, the dictators, the artists, and the store owners, not just the big companies and the big ones. And we need a government that will no longer expel one fugitive in every week, as has been done for six years. We need a government that will complete the Constitution as the nation has chosen. All these things are possible, but then people have to choose with the heart, choose with the welfare, choose with the freedom, not only the freedom of the market and the great, but also with the freedom from poverty and distress. Good Icelanders. Let's do better and stop separating people as this government does. In our own company, no one is excluded. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u14	All listeners: happy and blessed. We're heading for a intermission now. It's time to look over the fall and the spring. Our responsibilities require professional, upbuilding, and efficient action on the matter of Congress, some of which are obliged to be handled for a intermission. I'll mention one of the most important transport plans of later years. Parliamentary democracy, which we have chosen, provides a candidate with broad rights and many duties, including those of a member of the Parliament. to reason carefully, to offer suggestions that he considers for progress, to negotiate a matter in a greater part, or to provide it as a minority body member. At the same time, however, a senator must guarantee that the General will be able to handle politics in a moderate, logical, democratic period. Otherwise, the freedom to speak as well as the conjugal democracy must become a crying and destructive play that is neither decent nor incompetent to a member of the council. The transport programme that I have mentioned puts large additional financial hills to storing infrastructure, from harbors and airports to new bridges. Also, in the coming years more than we have seen in the past a similar period of time and finally for effort in public transport. Air travel, ferry and bus travel will be linked, but the state and six rural areas in the capital area work together to modernize public transport in the most densely populated areas of the country. A wide variety of infrastructures are requested throughout the country. It's one of the economic problems of the Covid pandemic and a positive base policy in action. There are many natural disasters in Iceland. It is addressed by scientific research, the overall public defence structure, the co-ordination of the Management Board and the Health Organization and the access of the National Security Council. The Covid epidemic may well be exposed to the concept of nature. In winter and spring, we too have had severe storms and now earthquakes. Many things we've learned, e.g. to revise electrical transport and fuel supplies. The value of conforming to disease control rules was repeated by the disorder. We have also renewed our confidence in reactents and forwarders, in solidarity, and in cooperation. And, when faced, find a fault that requires changes. Climate change in the North is faster than it is elsewhere. There are countless assignments that we face, including those that we may encounter. into, and now lead, the Council of North Pole. We're participating in a very special state and native partnership, which is quite contrary to global politics and the likes of a superpower. But nothing will benefit mankind better than reducing carbon gas emissions and the rapid binding of carbon in vegetation on land and sea. Equality is required on a global, global economy and full sustainable society and responsible actions. Therefore, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter stresses that Iceland's speed of action in these activities and increases contributions to the seminary, where individuals and businesses, communities, and rural governments also play roles, do not forget. I'm afraid we've gone too slowly to fill our 1997 climate paces to count, according to the Kyoto Declaration's objective. The commitment of the Paris Convention is different from that of 2005. The government today proposed a revised and ambitious climate plan. According to it, we'll, according to the expert model, reduce emissions well over the agreement's objectives by 35% or more. I say more, because it also expects further action that will increase this percentage to 403/46%, but not 29% as we are assigned. At the same time, carbon binding is multiplied, but it does much in the fight against climate change. In turn, environmental management should be enhanced following the new assessment. Government cooperation has shown evidence of green progress in the spirit of sustainable development and innovation, thanks to solidarity and compromises under the administration agreement. I mention, for example. Tourism, innovation policy, almost artificial energy policy, air policy and food policy, total waste re-examination, energy exchange and plastic surgery plans. In addition, official support for environ ments, peace reports of land and status, and finally a law on national parks in the central and new national parks, as well as a review of legislation on environmental impact assessments. All of this and more is harvested by three councils, and yet another assembly remains until the election is made. We at the left movement ◯ green supply works hard for the public, in behalf of the least of its members, in the interests of rural and urban areas and nature, with equality, sustainable and active democracy guided. - I appreciate your audition.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u15	My fellow Americans. The world's epidemic crown virus, though its influence in Iceland, is still diminishing. Similarly, our health - care providers launched a campaign, and other groups in the front showed the importance of their work and contribution to the community. But we have shown that when we face complex challenges, we are visible and loving, we stubbornly work toward solutions, and we stand together. We care about one another, and we are there for one another. It is the beauty that is evident in our small society when difficulties arise, but the Covid-19 epidemic has also shed light on the darker side of society and our eyes toward the diverse injustices created by the economy and our community, misjudgment that destroy people's lives, deprived of opportunities and threatening the loving solidarity of our society. Good citizens of the country. In times like this, drastic changes will open up for the better or - if we refuse to develop in the way of the changed times - for the worse. Our stories, our stories, and our art build down a guard in future events. We can choose to listen to warnings and learn from the past in order to create a better future. To do that, we must have the courage to dream a great deal. We have to have the courage to reach out to the opium and choose alternative from those who don't want to change. To do so, we must have the courage to face our inner fears of change, face the rear forces, and resist them. The world's epidemic crowning virus has shown us that the previously impossible is indeed possible. Only three months ago, it would have been unusual for many people to be via video and telecommunications, but now it's unusual. It took a pandemic to push us past ten years, and we cannot go back. This new form of communication has come to be. People may not realize it, but we already live in scientific fiction of the past century. Before engineers accepted the cylinder, satellites, smartphones, and video calls were all the ideas of writers. Writers have also foretold the development of our community for good and for bad. Who would have, for example? A few years ago, did it occur that the most powerful man in the world would destroy his presidency to convince the inhabited earth that war is peace, that black is white and white? That the principal power instruments of the rulers would have to keep writing history in their favor, as George Orwell predicted at his 1984 milestone? Would people of the past have been able to tell themselves that we ourselves would be fully involved in a surveillance community with us and bring abundant information to the rulers about our beliefs, feelings, and history? Evolution is dangerous, and we should approach it with a critical mind. President. The winter in many places compares to a physic science novel. But history is not over, and the end is wide open. Pirats and I know our community isn't the laws of nature. Our systems are human work and certainly not mutilated in stone. It is not physical laws that some 20 thousand people have to live in a straitjacket of poverty and disability or thousands of children. It is not physical laws that older people, the people who built up the wood we benefit from, have to live with financial worries. It is not natural to have companies who escape tax payments with accounting effects and tax schemes allowed them to continue unintrudged and then access to the common funds of all of us when we are experiencing ill health. The priority order is somehow in pursuit of reformers with vast collections of information and rigid monitoring of reformers, but then starving the monitoring agencies that are supposed to monitor companies and capital owners, with financial resources, with massive tax collections. This conscious inadequacy was clearly evident when Iceland was transferred to the gray list of FAFFs in the last fall, where we still die. It doesn't have to be like this, and it's not supposed to be like this. Good citizens of the country. It is a choice to rule out some people and to crush others. There is a choice that the environment doesn't have to pay for destroying nature. It is a choice to build the Community covenant on an out - of - date Danish plate that will establish the power structure that shapes our society. It's a choice to ignore a national law. All of this is the government's choice, but it's also a choice that you, a suitable one, have the opportunity to change. Piranus and I trust the people of the country to win our community. That is why we speak for unfounded unemployment reforms instead of state-busters because we see an investment that involves increasing people's freedom and freedom by eliminating impairments and ensuring the unfounded availability of the entire population. We'd like to introduce a system of economics where everything rises and thrives according to the people's needs and passions in the country, an economy that grows around and grabs us, instead of replacing us as an authority above. A well-being economy where a non-stop economy can be replaced by a sustainable and happy society. We have every opportunity to create a rich society in which no one needs to suffer. We can choose a future in which we work together for a just and sustainable society for all with a vision and optimism. Dearest nation. The future lies in our hands, writing a better story together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u16	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. The tithing industry began with a traditional format and the contributions of a budget bill for this year. It was a project to cope with slower economic activities, to help progress, and to improve the quality of life. We've been reasonable about the government over the past few years, and we've been able to make a great international tab. Indeed, the firm position of government funds gave us the opportunity to provide the economic resistance that then faced the need. Still, no one wondered what we had in store for us. The current budget of this year is reduced in households and companies with a decrease in income taxation on individuals and a reduction in insurance costs. There are many areas of life with increased donations for health care. Support is increased by income - stock housing, the first buyers and the country, increased education contributions, and the funding of a new education fund are guaranteed. The amount of money is increased to innovation, research, and a great deal of power in promoting public investment and special efforts in transport. But the council had not finished agreeing with budgets for 2020, when the code struck with social and economic damage, here and on a global, massive, rapid contractions and vast uncertainty. I'm not going to trace it here or put it on some meter, but the epidemic has touched all of us, families, friends, and relatives, our work, and our daily lives. V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. Such circumstances promote solidarity, producearity, and promote harmony in us, and it is in such situations that we need to show what is in us. It often brings us beyond what we are made of. It seems that everything can work out, and everyone seems to be doing good things, but it is in situations like these, and it often brings out what we can call national traits. In such situations of great uncertainty, it does not take much time to consider decisions, much less hesitate, but it requires rapid action to deal with the situations that have developed and make decisions safe and firm. The level of infection is undeniably successful. Indeed, the health - care system has passed the stress test and the community of all things when it comes to the control responsibility of each person's disease course reflected in the course of good slogans that makes us so much concerned that we are all public security. Deserved to be recognized by the president for their outstanding work and their humility, I felt characteristic of the solidarity that was needed in this part of the struggle. Thanks to all the three - eyed health systems at the far end of the road. V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. The arrangements adopted for this year are unfashionable. In addition, we have taken many measures now to protect the economy of homes and businesses, to strengthen business resources, and to provide shelter. The objective is that the state's funds will be struck by the Covid-dependance and will reduce its economic consequences as far as possible. It is hoped that we have the ability to meet the economic challenges we face with the same humility and solidarity that we have shown in the area of disease. It's not just my wish, it's always better for success. Most important, the action being carried out is successful. Teamwork is usually a key to reaching the desired goal. The goal is to bring back to them and to those for whom it is intended. By means of information, transparency, and season monitoring, we should be able to ensure that. As soon as it is our resolve to make use of the state's strong position in order to win us through these storms, it is important to look for longer periods of time and to look for sustainable financial resources. Let us make sure that we are always in the position of responding to tragedy, that when we do, we can finance a temporary palace without counting on debt to future generations - for surely all of us are government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u17	Mr. President. And all of you who sit at home and listen with spirit. Many things have been unusual in our lives during the past few months, and likely they will still be. People, homes, and businesses have been affected. Once more, we have been thoroughly reminded that our economy is moving faster than others. And it is clear why. We are all built on broken crowns, unstable resources, and too few jobs. We place our trust in a small number of articles that will become too large and that is why the economy is falling apart when economic trauma strikes. Of course, we all know this, but this points to international economic institutions repeatedly, and many reports have been written on the subject. When we're at the bottom of the wave valley, we're going to do this and we're going to start talking about innovation, technology, evolution, and a wide variety of jobs, just until the riot comes back, we're going to forget about the ecstasy till everything goes down again and the lumbermen come along. As a result, we have a clear policy that can cope with this problem and greatly reduce negative effects on people, homes, and businesses in the country. The core of this policy is to increase international cooperation with Iceland's involvement in the European Union, replace the euro with a dollar, balance the employment situation, including the and that the market will be theirs. It requires improving the protection of consumers and reviewing competitive laws with the aim of being efficient, potentially the interests of smaller companies and consumers, as soon as larger companies have normal access to markets without involvement and isolation. The government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, the highest. Prime Minister, has little or no interest in this future vision. There is no difference between the three groups that oppose these views at least if you look at the government's actions in the terms of the season. Mr. President. Today, few things are more important than long - term looking. We need to update our systems, not be tolerated. We need a system adjustment that provides a basis for a wide range of opportunities for life and work based on equal rights and freedom of choice. All of this must be based on economic success and good employment conditions. We must establish the basis for a more powerful and varied work that creates national income and opportunities for productive jobs. It is vital that we strengthen the worldwide sector, the intelligent export sector, that contributes to sustainable and long - term growth. The only way to do this is to make bold and large decisions that education, science, research, evolution and innovation become a major component of our economic and economic policies and to get the necessary money in the long run. All must be able to rely on keeping the setting, not just for a year or two, but at least to 10 at a time. Granted, innovation is a long - distance race, not a race, as some seem to think. When going for a long time, the runner must know where to run and must be able to trust that it will not be changed in the middle of the race. Mr. President. One thing the government has done is raise money to this suit. And that is well said, it should be commended. The problem, however, is that these are short - term measures as a response to the economic effects of the crown virus. Instead of starting a long run, the government intends to run a race that, unfortunately, will produce limited results and will not produce the necessary changes in the economy that we so desperately need. This is where the restoration wants to go, and it's fought for them, but unfortunately to deaf ears. Mr. President. One thing is certain: Time will pass, and the future will come. We are to prepare for it with insight and understanding. Our guide in restoration is always a matter of letting public interest rule rule, not special interest. After all, the best way to predict the future is to create it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u18	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. I'm afraid there are various forms of prejudice in Iceland. One film is economic violence, such as a large group of microorganisms will be affected. Just being born with disability, sickness, or only injury sucks us, and to our great shame. Sadly, the fact that in cases of disability, illness, or accident, the person's financial contributions are so close to the government that the person must live, not just in poverty, but in desperate condition, even his whole life. How can we put this into practice year after year, with a number of children in this wretched situation? This economic violence is displayed in absurdly many forms of chain - acting impairment, such as. If that invalid is paid from a pension fund or just a small price. That's when the damaged bikes go full. The result is that there will be nothing left when the 70 constituted sale of property has been passed by states and rural communities. It has now been found that the government's message is clear: The biographies are by no means for those in the pensions of government insurance. Despair and older citizens have no place in the standard of living or in contracts in general. The poor and older citizens alone have no right to get their eggs back in the past decade. No, the message is clear: Eat out what you eat and live in poverty as well as very few in command of this government. V.E.G. In recent years, the secretary of finance said that there had been a complete, unique development of social security donations that was nearly doubled in the real value of payment. But how has this completely unique development of social insurance donations paid off in crowns, and it was directed into the worst chain-mortem of their delinquency in our society? Yeah, about 220,000 bucks. to treat disability after taxes and about 250,000. a month to older citizens after taxation. There is absolutely unique progress on donations made from the social security system, for of course, you can be proud of these generous contributions for making money for the sick and the worst-founded senior citizens of the country. The total number of disability and older citizens in the social security system was about 60 billion and more than 60 billion. 2019. Look at these figures, $6,000 million! If the tax pay for social security had increased, like the biographies, and what if the pact had also been corrected, this monthly amount would not be less than 300,000 dollars. within one month after taxation for micro-mutation. And if it were, of course, not, it would certainly be no supernova. All units have promised that if only 65 dollars in favor of the loan, and the government groups did so in style by holding only 65 bucks against 65 pennies, and the case was resolved. Their genius at the expense of the cripples who suffer such terrible losses. The crowd of people will continue to fight for human rights for this group of people and their children and will make sure that they can live a decent, decent life. The people will continue to fight poverty and discrimination in all their manifestations. When a government at any given time does not want to address this problem of sick people, the nation must send a clear message that there will be no more poverty in Iceland, much less readily available. Good citizens of the country. Waiting for required measures is continually prolonged, therefore patients will be suspended in waiting lists, e.g. Orthopaedic surgery to continue to build a strong pain killer, but those who can and would like to get on board a plane and have surgery in foreign lands, with expenses up to three times, on the order of the State. Of course, the same service could not be used in a country where there are three operations for each person abroad. That's not a great management. Children are waiting and waiting for treatment of BUGL, the Children and Youth Department of the Land Hospital. Many children do not have the legal rights to help them outside the system and become what? The future micro-organism of the state. Children with long-term psychiatric disorders are on a waiting list for appropriate treatment, especially if they are on autistic basis. It's not just ridiculous, it's us here at the Generals to disgrace us. Psychiatric diseases are debilitating, inhibitory, and life - threatening, saying the mother of a child who is not qualified for her child's services. Your child will only receive five hours for the whole summer after all treatments due to Covid-19. It's embarrassing, just five hours all summer. This is a Covid case, which should be first, and we should immediately resolve such issues as any other. Can we not make sure that children, severely ill children, or some other reason, do not get sick properly, receive service? Or is it necessary to assume that some diseases do not give people the right to health care? Good citizens of the country. Rather, it is important that we set priorities in matters related to adults where appropriate. But we cannot allow this to happen to children. There is no need for children who are in need of a vital service to wait. Good citizens of the country. Let's change this right away. - Have a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u19	Mr. President, good Americans. The nation's age combination is rapidly changing. The percentage of elderly have increased due to longer life and fewer births in this country, as in Western lands. Predictions are that the proportion of people over 67 years of age will increase from 12% to 19% in 2040 and the elderly will be about 76,000. These facts call for active policy in the affairs of older people. Pronunciation is highly characterised by the decline in social insurance, the highly developed government system, which is characterized by a decrease in payment for those who earn money, pension, or making money. Social security is seeking to string a network under those whose foot is on. Experience shows that the deterioration in social security rates has been excessive. Examples are clear. A combined decrease and taxation in the income range of 25,000/570,000 U.S. may exceed 80%. This makes it virtually impossible for people to improve their interests by increasing work in the power of self - survival efforts that are instinctive for each person. For these groups, it is not worth the remuneration to earn incomes with respect to such severe taxation. Such loss of employment activity violates public health viewpoints in view of the fact that improved quality of life is accompanied by active involvement in employment and community. The middle class wants to reduce these losses and improve the quality of life of the elderly and the poor. Good Icelanders. Lately, the Central Party has taken up a discussion on the affairs of the city. It is not unnecessary, in relation to the funds the project should contribute, but also as a result of its propagandaic presentation. In the capital area, construction has been stopped for many years, and all who have to make their way through the area have become extremely harsh. This traffic jam does not come about by chance. It's not a coincidence. No, they are in advance, and they were made up of the more part of Reykjavík to get additional funds from government funds to try to increase the share of public transport, an experiment that began in 2011, and there is no result. Nobody. The share of public transportation was 4% at the time of the experiment and 9 billion later, the share of public transport is still 4%. In human language, the experiment has failed. But have you learned from experience? No, it's supposed to be worth a lot of money on a so-called city line. A person who does not exist after a financial breakdown due to the virus. It is planned to make room for the special lane for the fast - moving systems, which are especially long public carriages that take priority at every corner of the road. And how do you see the family car making its way when this system is established? Will traffic jams with the related delays be no more when two lanes on the main track are set aside for these fast cars? And how much are the promises of war? The latest figures say the adventure will cost at least 80 billion in spite of being unassigned, and none of that hand is attached. And on this bus, apparently, the State leaps for the apparent release of an annual construction stop in the area because of the wisdom and proselytizing of the more part of the city's city of Reykjavík. The middle party is not prepared to accept such a high ransom. The central category does not consider defence to be such an important place for urban planning that state and rural areas spend less than 50 billion until 2033 to an incomplete task, pointing out that the same targets that are being applied more effectively can be met by a policy maker, several billion in terms of a transport engineer. No, Mr. President. We're under obligation to treat the public tax money well. Good listeners. Enjoy the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u20	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. The sun comes no matter how long the winter night is, the poet said. We will continue into the blessed summer, which is most welcome after long winter. A winter that leaves no doubt in the history books for many reasons. This was a devastating situation that tested the infrastructure of the country, such as transportation, telecommunications, and the electrical distribution systems. When we were added to the earth, the damage caused by avalanches in the west, most thought that was enough. But the man should be tried for a long time, and when the Covid-19 pandemic was fully loaded with meeting requests and significant restrictions on the freedom of the people became aware that this would require measures of an previously unknown magnitude. How fortunate it was that in this country the government saw that the problem was a double problem; on the one hand, it was the public health of the people; and the one facing the economic consequences that society almost stops for a time! It shows the strength of this government that she trusted our finest professionals in the use of disease prevention to lead them in a fight. In the economic sector, the most extensive measures recorded in defense of people and businesses were under attack. We focus on defending every job that can be protected, but we also know that the shock is of the magnitude that despite the greatest economic effort in all history, the blow is devastating. The challenges ahead are great, and it will take a long time, even some years, to work back on what was lost. All of us need to deal with some weight because of this. Despite good assistance, we also need to shoulder responsibility for ourselves as much as possible, for if we get caught up together, have the communicator set correctly, and fail to compromise, we will reach the country again, stronger than ever. And positive signs are on the rise. During the past few weeks, the eyes of world press have turned to Iceland, and the results of Iceland have been discussed in Covid-19. The last large consideration was in CNN, where the benefits of the land as the destination after the pandemic were listed. This is of utmost importance, and we have every chance of making a quick recovery from the depression with this continuing. So I thank all those who contributed greatly during difficult times. We recently celebrated the festival of those strange times and were delighted to see how imaginative people were celebrating it during street festivals and parks. Yes, there is always good reason to uphold the independence of the nation so far from being self - centered. Being an independent nation in a solid international cooperation is our luck. Thus, if we want to, we can do tens of millions of projects on Southnes in connection with our membership in NATO. I mentioned the beginning of the community's foundation that went through a lot of trouble in the winter. We are strengthening all these factors, and for example, I have long said that powerful transportation is the best welfare issue. Of course, at the same time, it does much to help when other countries are ready to lie down with us. Unemployment is now Covid-19 with the largest test on Southnes, and it's totally unacceptable. In that light, we are alone to seize with both hands every opportunity that offers us a strong fight. Good Icelanders. We were fortunate that we were here as responsible governments when the most testing was being done and the governments were very experienced and deeply entrenched. They were able to take the lead and at once make themselves firm. We lived up to a government fund that was in a strong position. The project, however, is not nearly finished, and uncertainty continues. Politicians owe it to the nation to keep their eyes on the big context and to place national interests above all other francs about Caesar's beards. Let's gather with intelligence to arms, innovation, resource use, and powerful structure throughout the country. We will be ready when the land begins to rise again, and then our experience will be golden. We've always taken the storm first in our arms and put the wind in our backs. Let's enjoy the summer together, enjoy all the best of the country, and remember that Iceland may not be perfect, but it's certainly the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u21	Fine Icelanders. To say that this winter was more important than anything, there was no exaggeration. Thus, the storms of winter revealed how vulnerable we are and caused us to wonder what really matters in life. Is having the most expensive car or the largest trailer? No, it's time we spend with friends and family. My fellow Americans. It may also be said that during wintertime, we were forced to think outside the box. After all, meetings could be conducted through telecommunications, and a number of workplaces moved into the country's home. Thereafter, a number of workplaces have decided to offer their employees increased flexibility in the location of the work. This, hopefully, will open the eyes of industry and especially the public to the possibility that there is a possibility of increasing freedom in the market selection. We're supposed to use these kicks of the year 2020 to change things and create the society we want to create for the future. Associations in which functionally important classes, such as health professionals, teachers, and policemen, are paid in accordance with their heavy responsibilities. Fine Icelanders. We are also faced with another huge task that is the catastrophe. The situation is gravely serious, as we can see in northern heat food that was not to be seen until 2100 C.E. The Iceland State Government introduced today just one year after the latest climate change action programme. There are positive things we in the United States have spoken long ago, such as steps in energy exchange and increasing domestic vegetable production, but carbon costs, unfortunately, are still frozen and still lack time - consuming goals. Similarly, it does not match the sound of a picture. The government has only 9 billion earmarks of climate, but it is at the same time preparing for emissions of up to 10 billion due to emissions overleafing Iceland's resources, 2013-2020, or 21%. I ask: If we really exist in 40% contractions, and even more - why didn't we have a deal with the European Union? Is it because the government is really not willing to make such a commitment, although it is causing that figure at home? Both Norway and the European Union have set a much higher target by 55% contractions. Unfortunately, this fine work has failed to become involved in large issues here at the council, such as a transport program. There is good reason to further activate the council in the work that needs to be done in order to achieve real success in climate matters. Fine Icelanders. Government priority should be to promote the well - being and safety of people with international infrastructure. At the same time, we need to work on the development of nuclear regions around the country. It was a success to build a city in Reykjavík - now we need to build more cities in order to improve our balance in the country, as it is available in Akureyri. The password here is still increasing. We need to make bold decisions and increase the equation between the capital area and the region. My dear Icelanders. Just as we have differences in skin color, gender, choice of marriage mate of different sexes, and choose different ways in life, all of us should be equal in the eyes of society and the laws and have the opportunity to live the life that we choose to live, no matter where we choose to live. It's up to us to make sure of that. - Enjoy the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u22	Good citizens of the country. When we are relieved of difficult winters and unprecedented springs, we are faced with a difficult vision. After a pandemic that is blessed to suffer in this country, while growing in other countries, we look forward in a historical way to unemployment and economic recession. One of the world's deepest economic crisiss is prophesied in times of peace. This brings a great deal of responsibility to the political community. Every action must nurture the weak, and we must look out for the people who have lost and will lose their jobs. Let's make sure this doesn't make even more class distinctions when people and families lose their income. The women's classes do not continue to shoulder the greatest burdens. That there will be no more gap between those who have a lot of money and those who don't make ends meet. Let's make sure children don't live in poverty. This is where the Watch has to stand. Then it is important that our systems protect us and hold us. There is a measure of human society. He is the way we treat those less fortunate. Whether or not we're exasperating poverty. Whether we support our community's perimeters in order to have a decent life with dignity. How we create opportunities to enjoy ourselves. How we respond to people who are looking for international protection from wars, persecutions, extreme poverty, or the consequences of climate change. Icelandic society is to put their arms around those who may be with open arms and ensure equal opportunities for all of us. No matter where we come from or who we are. The crowning virus has also exposed us as not all of us are in this together, no matter how much we desire it. In the United States and in Europe, for the past few weeks in which police abuse and predetermined racism have been protested, the basic theme of large protests has been protested. Discrimination by skin color violates Iceland's rights law and constitution. Preconceived racism is a serious matter. This concept needs to be taught and how it can have its effect. This country, too. The fight against racial prejudice is constant, and we must never lose our sense of urgency. But let us not forget that the circumstances that now confront us give us an opportunity to do things better than before. A historic opportunity to stop and decide in what ways we want to work against our unemployment and economic contractions, while at the same time coping with the biggest threat of our time, climate change. How we want to rebuild our community after the shock. It's a song that we build on sustainable foundations and green environmental emphasis. Now, the opportunity to re-build the tourism services is guided by the fact that it is based on environmental protection and sustainability. Iceland's main attraction is Icelandic nature. It is to be protected and protected from any type of activity, but at the same time, all of us will have the opportunity to examine it and find a responsible way of doing so with respect and care. How important it is that we do not succumb to the forward environmental solutions to the job structure that we have to attack! As presented today, we measure our commitment to the Paris Convention and show initiative in the environment. We need to find an economic approach, incentive and solutions for sustainable and green economic and economic structure. The State's support must be much larger and more progressive in climate action, and the policy of managing climate change must be even clearer and more bold. The innovation after the crown virus has to be green. To the extent that technology technologies are eliminated, greens and investments must be green on sustainable climate - free projects. This is what we see all over Europe. There the government puts tremendous emphasis on vigorous green economic activities following the Covid-19. On the contrary, environmental issues must not be pushed aside; they should be in complete foregrounds now as never before. The vision should be clear. The community we want to build must be built up with human and green solutions for the future. In today's challenging and faced situation, how we react and what decisions we make are of vital importance. How we respond as society and political people, that is our major project. It should be one of the reasons why we are in politics. I wish for every success in our assignments ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u23	A respectable president. All kinds of people. We who live in Iceland want to create a just society where everyone sits at the same table. Unlike our background, we have the responsibility for the inheritances of our generations, our country, our history, nature, our language, and our culture. Iceland is a free and sovereign state. Their cornerstones are respect for law, freedom, equality, democracy, and human rights. - In American speeches, it's popular to quote the U.S. Constitution's opening words. Something that combines. Something that is their own work; a message of freedom, human rights, democracy, a state of justice, and so forth. This value, however, does not necessarily have real meaning on board as well as in word. They must be believed in by society itself. They must be proud of them and hold them as part of their self - image. If we look back in Iceland, we can ask; what equivalent do we have here? Yes, we enjoy relative freedom, human rights, democracy, and legal rights, all of which we inherited from foreign lands or took up on international treaties. What are we? What is it that unites the nation? What are we proud of, which is our own? Yes, it is probably the independence, the Icelandic language, history, and Icelandic nature. In short, Iceland's people are to be proud of their background. What, though, is it that a person is proud to have been born into some situation? How does this fit the lessons of history, or the current awareness of racial hatred and prejudice, for which Icelanders are in no way immune? Or what is it about the origin we should be so proud of? That is worth considering. What Kári of Revenge of Njáll? How did Bergþóra and Hallgerður made men, including slaves, kill one another over irritability? How Jón Ólafsson indariar's son beat some Dana for getting his ass over Iceland, in defense of his country's honor and honor? Hardly. But we may rightly be proud to remember this and to be grateful that we understand it. Reading it and learning from it. Don't forget what sort of fellowship we were from which the mud that lotus grew. To look back, and rather than to be exemplary, to be better than we used to be. Learning from past mistakes Having gained new knowledge and new values - repeated. To reevaluate our moral values as much as we may acknowledge the injustice that we did not see before or that we were not afraid to care about. To be a growing society. This is the real contribution of our tongue and history to a better community, and for that we can be thankful. It is important to see that we are able to grow. And none of us would be afraid of that. Despite the duty of the young generation at any given time, the generations who live now are better than those that preceded, which were then better than those who preceded them. Our society will never be perfect, but maybe we can see that fact so clearly, just because we know so well how to dream of a better world. And never let the dream down. Because we are few, or even because we are few, we can respond quickly, not only to economic depression and world events, but also to new ideas and changes in moral standards. When we seize their opportunities, be proud of what we have done, not who we are or where we come from. We who live in Iceland want to create a just society where everyone sits at the same table. Unlike our background, we have the responsibility for the inheritances of our generations, our country, our history, nature, our language, and our culture. Iceland is a free and sovereign state. Their cornerstones are respect for law, freedom, equality, democracy, and human rights. - Those words do not describe a perfect society, my fellow Americans. Still, they are a fairly good start.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u24	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. A peculiar, difficult, but highly learned affairs are about to come to an end. The 2020 project became very different from what people expected. The code hit, and everything changed. There was no precedent for such a situation. The need to rely on understanding, insight, science, and, above all, on the needs of society and the development of international matters. The government stepped into an urgent task of utmost importance. Many measures were taken to trust the position of the citizens of the land. Many were working hard on this difficult task. I would like to thank the people of the country for our solidarity and failure in these difficult times, especially those of our great artists who made us feel better, relieved with singing and joy on many late nights. Fine Icelanders. A new student's education fund is one of the major projects committed by the Parliamentary Parliament. This is a system change that will result in tremendous improvement for students. The law goes into effect on July 1st. V.E.G. The Minister of Education for Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddddóttir is the third Ministry of Education to attack changing the law of education. Everything is already three and so we celebrate. The model is norse, and the major change is that the system becomes divided, i.e. Sustainable loans and then support systems funded by the state. At that time, students who complete a course of education within the required time may have a 30% drop on a student's head loan, and parents can be strengthened by each child. You will be paid out monthly, and you will have to make a choice about securities or irresponsible loans. And most importantly, the responsible system will be canceled. Many will rejoice. More than 90% of credit recipients will come better or equally out of the new system. All classes, except one, agreed to a new fund of education. The government has given much importance to this, in response to Covid-19, that people have the opportunity to study. So it was very nice to see yesterday's news that the government has secured high school funding to attend a high school record level. Another big issue that stands for the removal of the Allied Council during this spring council is the law on Earth. To discuss a bill from the highest. Prime Minister. The objective of the bill is to strengthen the legislation on land, land, and other property through changes in the law on property and the use of real estate, including the earth, and the official registration of national and real estate issues. The bill is in line with one of the main points of the Congress Progress, which is a synonym. paritaprevir Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir's inkhorn on a ground - to - earth plan, but the bill does not go as far as the conclusion. Thus, there certainly is further application in this case. Member State registration will be performed, e.g. To be all right if we're going to get a proper grip on the earth in Iceland. It's a very complex project, but it's even. The basis for building up real estate assessments in rural areas. They have to say that this registration case is in the middle of nowhere. My fellow Americans. There are other things I was going to say, but my time is running out. But finally, I'd like to say, improvements in energy security and electricity distribution as well as a stronger earth-based laws and resources should be in total priority for us here. The forwardness of those segregations will have confidence in the future prosperity of the nation. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u25	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. Many thought that with Covid-19, society would all change. After all, we experienced many experiences of those who once seemed simply impossible. But we have in the past felt that we had learned a lesson from history and then slowly returned to our original outlook. Residents and routines are powerful forces. It takes strength to move forward and strengthen changes. In fact, this is true of the changes that the nation calls for because changes often mean loss of control. One of the things we experienced during the winter is that of the Icelandic people. Even though we are few, we are strong together. In difficult circumstances, the people showed a respectable attitude. We are now faced with the challenge of softening the heavy blow we were hit by Covid-19. While we face the challenge of defending the support of employment, more are being built up at the same time. We must show the will to invest in a more varied future. The virus and its fighting have affected the health, economy, and the well - being of a nation. The emphasis was first natural on the health of the people - and it should not slack off. Today, even more effort is being made to deal with more serious economic conditions. Defending the companies and at the same time dealing with unemployment; unemployment of tens of thousands shows the seriousness of the situation. The third act, however, is social. It is important that the government does not neglect the nation's well - being in the wake of this economic crisis. It's a big job. And I admit I'm worried. While the government is certainly strong in numbers, it is weak, and in these days it becomes so clear that this government is not the right answer. Under pressure, the government's stand is small, except for standing still, not reaching together much more. The government forms a chain of society. We see political manifestations of conservativeism in many places. Despite the great support of the nation that this government will take few steps in that direction, the nation itself will receive the fruitage of our sea resources. There's gonna be a step. It will be spoken of peace, but the peace of the government is about making the slightest change. Another manifestations of conservativeism is the approach to Iceland in the national community. Economic shocks, such as this, strongly highlight the need for international business and cooperation. We need to attract people to international knowledge, capitalism, and people. Today, the world's eyes are on the nations that have been successful in fighting the virus. Iceland can in that light become even more desirable for people who are looking for a better, secure community. We have a good community. However, this government wants to shut off people of foreign origins and proclaim extreme alien politics. She's turning down kids who want to come here. They do not want to discuss the cooperation of European nations; they do not want to discuss the currency even if the public pays it at high prices. You see, all these factors require that we not be afraid of change. In fact, the government is afraid of action that will help the people to feel better; that psychological services will be subsided like other health services. Despite widespread public support, this government will not increase public access to psychological services because it requires the will to change. President. This government's political government is in the foundation of a ideologies. It is her choice to maintain a simple economy, not to allow time for the ban, to take short steps in climates despite weekly protests on the outside. And there's a choice to hold on to the weak crown. The government simply fears changes. [[The president calls.]] The challenges and challenges in these historical times are great and small. Now it is important that we face the situation and face our opportunities, for they too are here. [[The president calls.]] And it is important to experience opportunities and avoid fear of change and progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-125.u26	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Now you see, there may be a certain privilege of being a member of a two-man council. This is where I get, for example. To speak twice, the only senator. I know most of you have had enough of me the first time, but here I am again. Anyway. I desire to turn my songs into a cross, to look to the future, to look to the autumn, and the winter to the next. Yes, we won our first phase victory against the Korean epidemic here at home. But now we're in a lot of uncertainty. Next thing you know, we're going to have to get back, and we're going to step down and stand together through the coming winter. Then the consequences of the virus epidemic will really come on us. Tremendous unemployment, where economics and the rest of the families will be greatly disturbed, where financial commitments have been made in good faith that income would be sufficient to support them, but in the face of bitter unemployment rates. That's why I challenge the government to raise my unemployment rates, put the people in first place. I'd like to point out that June 16th. Vigil's treatment home was closed. It's a treatment home for addictive and drug addicts who seek help from the U.S.A. It'll be closed for six weeks. The Matrix, the budget, gave 150 million. K. We'll come into the budget to support the activities of the U.S.A. There were some 700 waiting lists of patients who wanted help. But, you know, there's still an outing of 50 million. K. which have not been placed in hospital Vog. 100 million. K. has been paid in well - and invaluable walks, yet much more is needed. Although the government and health minister would like to say: We're setting up an X-Multure in this operation, we're talking about very sick people. I find it strange, now in mid - Korean epidemics, that we should say, "Okay, it just happens - I almost said, " Shit is going down." I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I wanted to. Then it was now in the budget that we took care of in May that it was agreed to provide 25 million. K. to aid institutions, which indeed feed people. And you know what? They haven't paid one dollar of it yet. And I ask, if not now, when are we going to help these people? Why are we saying that we are going to help if there is nothing to do? I don't think of our people who really need this, like some loan or a close-up scholarship. We're gonna put the people first, and I believe that we can all agree on it here, wherever we stand, that we should put people in first place, and first and last do what we say and promise here, especially when we've put it through the council and the Senate will accept it. What are we waiting for? [[The president calls.]] Happy summer, my fellow Americans. No matter how we do, we are going to stick together, and we are going to win the next war, for without the solidarity, we are really nothing.
