ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u1	President. To some extent, this matter might be related to Covid, which is linked to this state responsibility. The Economic and Business Committee is going to deliver the case. If a committee can present a matter for the council at the end of the summer, it can be done with a beach fishing bill as well, i.e. to allow coastal fishing in September. It is also a Covid case, and hence it could be fully shared by a professional health committee. This has to hang out. It cannot be taken out of parentheses just for an agreement that was made, saying that this is possible because the Committee agrees. I urge everyone in my memory to refuse this vote. We're turning her down. It takes two thirds to be approved. I encourage everyone in my memory to resist taking the matter into the schedule for treaties like this on a mountain road. Then you have to negotiate whether this is a Covid thing to do. [[The president calls.]] If so, there are other issues that need to be planned for this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u2	A respectable president. I know that on the Economic and Business Committee, members of the Parliament have been discussed with the presidents or presidents whether this matter would be scheduled. It hasn't been done. The majority of the items have not been consulted by the chairman of the section to obtain the subject. No consultation has been made with the memory of the part to get the subject on the program. However, there is an agreement to cover, e.g. from dealing with the problems of Coastal fishermen. But we are not talked to and asked if this matter should be scheduled. No. The president puts the matter on schedule without even the members of Congress having a schedule in front of him. That's what I expected. That's why I noticed. I expected to try to sneak the case in without even having it discussed in the right place. We had already agreed on what would be scheduled for this seminary, and it will not work, unless there is an agreement between all of us, that some matter is being dropped in the back door when we do not even have the program in front of us. We were all to slip it past us, and at least I encourage you. the lower part to vote against this pew. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u3	President. I'm less critical of myself. I don't know that members of the council spoke with presidents or presidents or agreed in any way that the matter would come up on schedule. I think it's pretty pathetic. Like my colleague, huh? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, was saying, we don't even have a schedule in front of us. There's only talk, 3rd matter, 4th matter, you don't even know what you're talking about. If we were really speaking to ourselves and some form of consultation and cooperation in this time of the end, this would not be in progress right now. What is so hard about having this conversation with us? I don't understand. I don't understand. We're trying to do our job. V.E.G. Government, you have to talk to us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I'm not willing to see this issue going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u4	President. I'm here to recommend more of a committee party than anything else. Legal committee to propose a judicial hearing on the alteration of the Council No. 10/148, the financial policy for 20181⁄2022. As we understand, all the time to prepare and work on the case was short - lived, but we all knew when we agreed on this arrangement in the week of the so - called seminar. The committee did what could be done to win a time, but the time for review was a crisis; five days, just as a financial body had to complete its opinion, which is almost as important as a matter of financial debates and financial agendas. Nevertheless, there were good and helpful reviews, and the committee invited all of them to their meetings, and the committees were making good use of the committee days. At the same time, I would like to thank the committee and the manager for responding favorably, thank you for the tolerance and long meeting places, and immediately for the necessary conversation. There is no doubt about the cause of this review of financial policy that lies before the council, and we now discuss it. The General agreed in June. bill on postponing a donation revised financial policy and financial programmes and the financial bill that we will discuss in a few weeks. In the 10th. The law on public finances is discussed on the basis of a review of financial policy, and in short it can be said and confirmed by a financial body that there are all factors and that legal divorce is realized. In fact, it is not possible to react with standard measures available on the remuneration and income side; increasing, it is considered inadvertent to the public to an irreversible extent by either increasing taxation or reducing activities to meet the targets for survival and debt of validated financial policy. In Comb 4. legal in terms of public finance shows that the aim of the policy should be expressed as a proportion of GDP, VLP, and that the policy should be in line with baseline sustainability, safety, stability, stability and transparency defined in Article 6. The law. The proposal itself is presented in one tablet, and you can see the key changes proposed to the overall survival, debt and the context of the uncertainty shift; the arrangements taken in the revision of the policy just about one year ago. As a result of economic uncertainty, the uncertainty shift is more present than determined at this time, but in this revised proposal, it may be up to 2% of VLPs during the year and 3% per year for the next two years. Instead of the balance set in current policies, it is now assumed that the hook could reach up to 14.5% of VLP this year and 13% at the next one. The correspondingly we see that changes in debt are expected, as it is obvious that the measures and reactions required by borrowing are needed. There is no need for wording on the need to compromise financial rules, including those involved. The debt rule, the 30% target. This ratio is expected to reach 45% next year and 64% in 2022, based on a new level of uncertainty. A greater debt is not limited to government funds but also to the survival of rural society and public companies. The relative changes in financial policy proposed are shown in the table on page 5. 16 of the Council's Report. The Commission has calculated the share of VLPs into sums so that financial volumes can be understood. For example, the uncertainty bed contains a total of 247 billion dollars. if it is fully new all the years, but it is about one quarter of the current budget. So the subject may reflect the uncertainty that we are dealing with. If it is fully new all the years, the total survival of the official section A could be 412 billion k. This year, 401 billion k. Next year, 343 billion dollars. in the year 2022. However, the unsuspecting, that will be repeated, will only be new if the economic outlook is less than expected in national interest. The majority of the data shows that the ratios and sums of policy policy measures are being able to cover darker scenarios than the basic picture based on the Economic Plan of the Habitat. In the face of national concerns, there is no way for the uncertainty shift to be new, and both the result of less angles and debt does not increase as much as the maximum of the policy. The growth in the state's debt under the present circumstances directly aims to lighten the burden of home and business because of the shock. Thus, government funds are spent in increasing the development of resistant households and businesses that are in a better position. This application of national financial policies is in line with the emphasis on most other countries and the advice of international institutions. As for economic prospects, talking about uncertainty, I'd like to say we have a problem. At the same time, the value of the estimates, scenarios and analyses will be greater. Iceland's National Organization of Economics since June is the fundamental predictor of a revised financial policy. Since then, there has been evidence of a stronger personal consumption than thought, which is reflected in the projections as well as up - to - date information on public financial plans. Economic development in this country is similar to what happens in many other places, including the U.S. correspondent in the North. It's best when you compare this, and we figure out our committee party, that the different levels of tourism were reflected in the forecasts in between. The committee has also listed the Habitat projections and the Marine Bank to compare and a darker budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is the basis for calculation of uncertainty. If the darker scenarios are really going to work, we're going to test the uncertainty gap and we may need to make full use of it for the government's funds. In that case, the economic improvement will not begin until 2022. The basic picture is that this year the government budget will be around 10% of VLP. It should be remembered that most of it is due to the decision of economic counterweight measures and the decision to allow automatic fluctuation equations to work to the full. The development results in a significant increase in the debt and financial needs of the public, as the proposals indicate. Perhaps the most important thing and the greater part wants to focus on are the goals we look to in order to get us through this period. First, to avoid minimizing the scope of public service. Public funds will be used in order to ensure stability and create economic resistance. Emphasis will be put on the implementation and implementation systems in spite of the high - income degradation of the state and rural society. They will try to work together and communicate with their communities on this project and, as already, in a financial plan and a financial bill. Second, there are many counter measures, as has been done. I'll show them to make up the cohesive pioneers we worked with during the spring months and involved a number of counter measures. The primary objective of the procedure has been to soften the damage to home and to work in the present situation. Third, it is very important to let the automatic balances of the government's budget work to the full. We have to be careful to finance it. In this situation, as the review puts it, borrowing is unavoidable and therefore the key question to be raised is, in view of baseline sustainability: What can be done to increase the debt ratios before the negative effects of it begin to weigh more than excessively, but it is clear that the rules and goals of the current policy are disfellowshipped? A number of factors need to be kept in mind when it comes to answering that question, including mood swings and potential other future traumas, debt control, and reimbursement, as well as in credit rates and interest levels, the response of food companies, but perhaps especially the discipline and regulations of the law. According to studies in countries within the OECD and the European Union, the sustainable debt status of the public in Iceland may range from 50 to80% of VLP. In the long run, it is important that the government's basic balance be positive so that debt can be paid over the future and time limit. It hangs around with economic growth, but I restate on the fact that the deadline for time is all that matters when you look at it not to overcrowd it in future generations, making it possible for the state funds to always be ready to settle fluctuations, create stability, to be on the move to cope with tragedy as we now face it. Of course, at the same time, we need to trust and continue to build up the interiors of society and guard the use of the combination. The greater part outcome is that, based on most criteria, the public in Iceland has the obligation to the current economy and the economy has full potential to get out of this crisis, thus under the financial cost and at the same time pay down payment in the future. The key issue here is all measures, protection, and support of domestic budgets and the capacity for enterprises to maintain production tools contribute to a more vigorous repair and that the production of the land will start to grow vigorously again. As I came to, a respectable president, the opinion of a financial body has proved to be fundamental to all government coverage, financial and financial agendas, and the role of a financial body is written in the law. I'm just going to get together, and we're going to do it in the committee list of parts, the main things that show up in the opinion of the Council, and the conversation as both of them. The budget and the what. The Council was referred to by the Economic and Business Committee. It is clear that the largest project of public finance is to deal with unemployment and to work against its long - term survival. The importance of public investments is highlighted. In this context, there is no set of criteria for determining which investments will be used and how they are prioritized. This has been discussed many times before, and the Council stresses the establishment of transparent goals and the availability of time for measures to ensure sustainable public funds and to promote economic stability. The baseline value for the overall financial management board is transparency, and the majority agree with that. The conclusion of a financial body is that under the present circumstances the government will be able to control the financial debt programmes. The Council points out that there is not a very clear picture of the maintenance of public funds as a basis for economic development to be more efficient than expected in the economic forecasts to be expected. It is, of course, this baseline level of caution and firmness, but financial advice also points to that, and it may be to show some understanding, that the maintenance phase is not the case under these circumstances, that in cases where they can have a baseline, such as carefulness and a conflict. Uncertainty is more than ever before and redirected directly into policy areas and shown in policy areas. In her opinion it was not a matter of financial interest. Although this may not solve the problem, some of the indiscretions reflect the response to the previous tips of the Council. The policy is that economic development will become what has been called the V-shaped and therefore cause a temporary breakdown, and we'll get out of it quickly. It may be said that the trend is to become U-shaped, and at an open meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, in a conversation with the bank manager, there was another illustration to the coherence. If economic development becomes a chronic economic recession, then financial policy will not be easy to follow. The majority agree on many of the points presented in the Council's review, and I have drawn many of them together here, and it is clear that governments have responded positively to many of the previous indications. It may be concluded that public financial law has proved its value to the point that economic policies and financial policies, in many areas, work together to minimize the negative economic effects of the pandemic. That has even been true. Show up in the Federal Bank on Money. In view of the uncertainty of the economic situation, though, it is important to examine the level of uncertainty. I can draw out the comments of the Association of Businesses, Reykjavíkurburg, and conversations with them about this. Since it is very important to receive such indications, the more part points to the need to support the scope of the uncertainty issues. The report considers only one darker stage, but as the financial adviser points out, it was able to specify how much worse a share is due to less income, how much is due to unemployment, i.e. how this affects the pay and income side, and whether and what counter measures are planned. The key point is that the uncertainty gap must be well supported by the visual image and sensitivity analysis, and it can meet variations that are easily present and prognosticated. It has been noted that the uncertainty curve should not be too narrow to allow the volume of action not to be too small, and it should also not be too wide to be aimless. This was shown in several reviews and in the opinion of a financial body, and the majority agree with it, but at the same time we need to be careful to support the level of uncertainty. Thus it turned out that a course could lead to a particular straitjacket. As a result of this arrangement, financial planning has previously been identified, but this means that there will be too little room to deal with the changes that can be made in predictions. It is not clear how this resolution is determined, especially when you look to the year 2020, where no stage is drawn for that year. The unsuspecting space at work for 2021 suggests that there is room for further counterweight action, but this is not clear in a report with the proposal. The majority of them consider it necessary to keep a substantial uncertainty in financial policy, especially in these times, in view of uncertainty about economic progress, but also shows that there is no basis for the switch between state and rural areas. This is important, and we come to deal with it and work together with our local communities on the issues ahead of financial planning and financial bill. Thus, the efficiency of space depends on a variety of uncertainty associated with economic outlooks for the next few years. Inevitably, the uncertainty margin should only be used if economic conditions are less effective than national forecastings. So we're in an understatement section on this interaction and the context of uncertainty with the targets of survival and the proportions and then the ratios. According to a report, the Habitat's basic forecast, 4.9% will be expected to increase the rate of unemployment on average 6.7% and inflation 2.5%, as compared to the presence of another epidemic, and as a result of the reduced emissions of tourists by 80%, a pretty dark picture. As a result, economic growth would be only 0.6%, unemployment 8.3%, and inflation 2.8%. A much lower economic growth rate from a basal predicted, or a 4.3 percentage reduction, could be expected to make extensive efforts to react, so it is important to provide as closely an assessment as possible whether 3% of the uncertainty range is sufficient. The fact that Iceland's private consumption is moving abroad is a major challenge to the traditional decline in demand, thus reducing the income of worth taxation at the same time as it might be expected to aim for less economic growth. Other factors also contribute, e.g. that total pay is not considered to diminish in accordance with less economic growth, thereby reducing insurance and income taxes. Yet, the government's income may drop by more than 30 billion dollars. if the dark forecast goes down. The majority of these changes in the Committee opinion that the 90 billion that the uncertainty range allows would be able to meet if the tire picture becomes more severe. According to that estimate, up to half of the uncertainty range will need to be used next year, or 45 billion dollars. but there's a level to deal with if there's an aberration from the darker stage. I mentioned earlier in my speech that it tests the baseline values, and financial advisers pointed out that the baseline value of firmness and caution may not be the same in the current situation, but the transparency will be much more important and absolute base. This involves publishing clear and measurable targets for an average of time, and regularly publishing a comparison of objectives and effectiveness with clear scales. Today, governments have recently appointed task force to detect the economic effects of disease prevention, which will be involved in routine analysis of the economic impact of options for disease prevention, in terms of different community groups and the sector of the economy. The majority consider it a positive and very necessary step to facilitate transparency. At the same time, it is necessary to consider clearly identifying the interaction of action and its economic effects, e.g. economic growth and employment levels. The greater part points out that the impact of the recovery on the debt status could be more easy to read in policy, but it expects that financial programmes will be better able to identify these factors. Radiographic analysis needs to be adjusted and better defined, e.g. behind the darker stage shown in the report. This is an incentive for those who work here, to the government, to the council, to work things out. In preparation for the Senate resolution proposal, the Agency's information flow and the financial and economic services have been improved from the past. Today, there is the work that financial advises have called a ◯Tort, i.e. that the Organization can get information on government plans, including the U.S. Investment plans, in part to improve national ideals. In this way, new information is used to improve the planning. The majority reiterate their previous perspective on re-improvement of the projection and indicate that the majority of the remaining components re-establish their previous trends on the design of the projection. the criticism of rural society in that subject. We're all on the same boat when we get there. I'd like to emphasize, sir, that in a financial and financial discussion, there will be a good and much consultation between them. I'm going to go to the end to draw out the tips of the section at the end of the committee opinion. First, it is noted that all reporters agree that all the grounds for current financial policy are totally smiling. Legally, therefore, there is a legal obligation to bring up a revised financial policy at the General. The review of the financial board states: ◯ Under the present circumstances, financial advisers feel that a valid reason is for reviewing established financial policy, in accordance with Article 10. European Environment Agency (UNEP) has been appointed by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. Second, it agrees with the viewpoint that government law has proved its value in that the aims of government policy and money policy are far better working together, but it was often the case in the past. I'd also like to point out that we try to respect the policy cycle, although we are repeatedly reviewing policy and postponing matters. We respect that cycle as soon as possible and try to get things started. Third, the result is that the wealth of the state and the public as a whole should be in charge of the debts faced in current economic conditions. The economy has the means to get out of the economic situation, thus supplying financial expenses and at the same time subsidies. In the future, public funds need to become sustainable again. It's this baseline I went over earlier, and we specifically understand the commission. However, the review of the financial Council that I am going to refer to here says that it should be a means of promoting balance, thus meeting the requirement for stability. In addition, financial advisers believe that the forwarding of Congress resolutions to change existing financial policy contributes to the sustainable development of public funds. Fourth, it is positive and necessary to maintain a substantial uncertainty shift in policy, especially with current economic uncertainty, but most of the part has conviction about it, and I refer to the calculations we, the committee, have improved from a report where we felt this lack. We present this exchange here, and this is also shown in the opinion of a financial body on page 6. 7, The estimate assumes that up to half of the uncertainty range between the next year and 45 billion dollars will have to be used. and split it down so that the yield could fall by 10 billion dollars. Because of the lower VFF value, another 10 billion bucks. Because of increased expenditures, mainly due to unemployment, but on the income side, the largest amount is about 15 billion dollars. reduction of worth tax. Tax taxes and insurance costs cut down a total of 10 billion dollars. and still, there is room for an anomaly of up to 45 billion. This is how these joints are calculated and laid out and would have had to be adhered to by both data. The legal committee and the report on the case. It was added, and I want to thank the Committee for being united in calling out for this information. Fifth, a precise basis for calculating the budget range with appropriate scenarios and sensitivity analysis is needed and is related to what I went over here. Six is encouraged to speed up government work to restore economic forecasts. The majority suggest that the synopsis proposal will remain unconvinced. Under this view, most of the printed page was left over. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur son of Benediktsson, Steinunn, Áranna's Árnadóttir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Páll Magnússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u5	Mr. President. I'm just going straight to the politics. This is one of the most important matters of Congress that we will discuss during this session. I'd like to ask you what. Councilman and chairman of a legal committee: Why does it say that this is at the former standards for school, hospital, health care, arts, research, and innovation in the middle of a pandemic? Why does he catch it? Don't the budget report that now is not the time to maintain the original standards of the party? We talked about it repeatedly with a budgetary committee, and it would have been slow to give a clear, clear message that these were not the institutions that would require the permanence requirement today. But this is true because the majority of the committee did not trust to tackle this in their committees. That's why I asked and asked the highest. Secretary of the same question for the year 1st. Of course, he wanted to support measures and cuts against these institutions, but it's odd that the forward movement team with its social nerve, at least historically, supports the same way that the former standards are supported, let alone the left greens that don't even sit in the room at the time of this discussion, or what? I think it's critical. It's politics, and I don't understand why we didn't come together and send them a message that the Landsaholics, health care and schools who are drowning in applications due to historical unemployment don't need a special precaution. I don't know if the people, the media, and others have realized that this is a firm report and that this restraint is not a small one, I can go over it afterwards, considering the whole thing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u6	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. Yeah, this is politics, and this is important. I'd like to start by saying that, it's a very big case that is fundamental to financial planning and financial support. As to the question of the provisional requirement, I would like to state that I make a clear distinction between what we call the general demand for institutions and the public sector in order to encourage time for management - I am fully separating it and I feel that it should always be upstairs, that it is just our attitude, our attitude and political decisions on what it takes to achieve goals on different issues and issues. It is good to suggest that in the latter part of the current budget, these maintenance goals are reduced and eliminated, e.g. when it comes to medical institutions and educational institutions. But then we're looking at more economic growth. I want to harden, if anything, to maintain these conditions because I watch the requirements as a positive effort to manipulate public management by any means available, including trying to do things more effectively in a digital world, etc., and I completely distinguish it from political decisions on which expenses are needed to live up to the goals that we place ourselves on the issues discussed. I may be able to take the medical system and the Hospital as an example in a second answer, depending on the circumstances. The senator spoke about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u7	Mr. President. Business management, maintenance. We're in unprecedented times. I don't know what the other part is supposed to be about the nurse, the doctor, the nurse, and the teacher, who are all people in the front line. Are these people supposed to run faster? Is that your goal? I'm saying, "Okay." It is possible for humans to fight for advisability and so on at a later time. At this time, my opinion is that it is being held at a special requirement, this Covid year and next year and the years that follow. Why wasn't the claim taken out for the three years? Then, if they count an opportunity for some practical gain, humans can put it back after this difficult period. That's what I'm criticizing. This is politics, Mr. President, and this is a wet barrel in the face of the public employees who are stretched to the limit in the position of upstairs. [[The president calls.]] I don't understand why the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is willing to hold onto this claim. It's a scandal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u8	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the question from what? paritaprevir Ágúst Ágústsson Áugustsson I like to talk about it here. Consider the nurse. There's nothing to cut off his salary, it's just never gonna happen. The nurse will always get her pay in accordance with the collective agreements made. This focuses on the whole organization, management, employment management. If it's about running faster, it seems to me that health care professionals have done very well in this regard. We got here from abroad, and everyone listened and criticized that things could be done better here and there. That's what I look at when I'm watching economy, and I completely distinguish it from political decisions, so I reiterate that answer. When it comes to the Land Hospital, he has about 70 billion contributions, and I just think that in all control of such a complex organisation, if we take the concept of organizational education, it is to consider how to organize the Agency so that the economy will be the most efficient. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u9	A respectable president. We're here dealing with financial policy, 2018◯22022. We know that in the administration of the Covid case, it was calculated to be extremely wrong. They put on the shades of pessimism, but the huge sum was not going to last. Now I ask myself, " Is there anything wrong with pursuing this financial policy because it seems to be making changes with very short notice because there is much uncertainty? ' I ask: Do they put their optimistic glasses on there, because in that direction a very small inflation is expected? Inflation is on its way. Last figures were 3.2%, and they're even going to 4%. The gang's in a free fall. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of the Committee, spoke of the homes and businesses. Does the same thing apply to any household? Will all homes be maintained? What will be the situation in the homes of the worst? Is there any policy, or might it be the main policy that older citizens, poorers, and others should simply tighten the jammers and receive all the increases, both for inflation and for the effect of walking, without any intention of furthering their interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u10	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for the question. It is good, and it can be drawn from several factors. First, I want to say that all our actions are involved in promoting the interests of households and businesses in the effort that we have here a powerful resistance. That is why we are reevaluating the objective of government policy so that we can afford it, so we can borrow to finance operations for that purpose. We then discern how far we are going here and in that regard. I see why. A senator is concerned about inflation. The expectations of the maps - and now I refer to the National Bank's independent money policy, his opinion, and a debate. A financial and business committee - is that inflation will stay close to its targets. But, of course, when it's done about 14%, you worry about it, if it all happens in high prices. In turn, the poor person works in the economy under these economic circumstances. But I share my concerns with each other. A senator and we should always work to see that there's constant prices here. That's just one of the main objectives of economic management. In 2001, we granted independence to the Federal Bank to work on money policy. I think it was a good step, but at the same time, we're here and all the business of government matters as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for answers. Yes, we agree in many ways, but unfortunately, walking and inflation are simply a matter of fact. Increased food prices are most common among those mentioned. That may be the saddest, and the most feared thing I am because nothing could be done for the worst was in my heart. There was no policy in the kinder ones that recently went over to the best of the worst people, senior citizens, and invalids, and raised them. Unfortunately, it always seems like that when the pressure comes, it bites the worst. Then they shall harden the water, and take on the burdens instead of the protection. I'm asking you, what's the course? Would it not, then, be ideal to ensure that these groups would not be worse off in Covid's time than they were before? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u12	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson is a very important subject. In the economic context, it turned toward stability, and it is important and has blessedly avoided the failure to create stability by maintaining inflation. We know the story. Hv. A senator also notes that it may be more relevant to the standard of inflation, i.e. index, the consumption index, which measures the inflation from a composite basket. And it is the fact that those with less income use it primarily to finance housing, to eat, to get a roof over their heads, to get in and out. There is a danger that it may be reflected in a product alarm on these factors. I'm afraid in such circumstances, the burden is affecting people in disproportionately. It is our responsibility here to try to equal those burdens.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u13	A respectable president. A policy of this automatic swing regulator. This is a government policy to do what is supposed to be done in an economic downturn, i.e. Private service level and rights, which are only positive. But where is the structure of policy? What should be the effect of words about valuable work, as said? Is that what it is, e.g. job in travel service? They are not very valuable to the people who do them, as they are generally low - paying jobs. Does the government's policy for valuable jobs include providing Icelanda by means of a partial improvement, a resignation, and a Kingdom responsibility for billions of dollars above to keep the minimum wage? Over and over again on the work of nurses? Is that the definition of the government of valuable work, not the pay of the people who are working, but something else? I think it's strange. The first government package held a market of three billion while innovation received less than two billion. It was not until the government's opposition emphasized innovation that the government was moving something. These packages increased by just over a billion innovations, making the market three billion and the new creations three billion. It was as much, but its emphasis is rather obvious. It is part of the problem I see in this policy, while it is relatively obvious and transparent in the automotive equilibrium of what is to be done in an economic rhythm, it is not a rationale for other government aims for valuable jobs and the beautiful words to follow. What effect should they have on us here at councils to make sure that the policy is giving the results that governments say it should produce?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for a core question, really. What aspects of employment should we stress in these circumstances? How are we supposed to get out of this crisis? There is, of course, a context in time. But these are core questions. Yes, it is very important, but it is also positive to make the decision to maintain a public service level and not enter the tax or improvement systems under such circumstances. The decision is to allow automatic equations to function. It is a decision, and we stress that we stick to that decision. Then I'm going to proceed with innovation, research and evolution. We may never be able to do enough in that area, and we can do much better. I think our eyes opened up a little here while we were winning the budget bill. There were 100 billion, if I put it all together, in three prime places. There was effort in investments. There was a campaign for innovation, research, and development, with the emphasis on education and opportunities for education. In these circumstances, all of this is crystalline, any of the key elements of this are in the future. It takes time for a wand to get on the line, etc. ... andI knowwhat. A senator who speaks extensively knows this very well. The fastest way to cope with unemployment must be the travel service. We've put funding in all over the country, whether in recreation, room service, bus transport, or anything else. It's all an unused manufacturing device. The vast majority of unemployment is reflected in the tourism service, so the fastest way to return is to use it as a manufacturing tool and that labor force. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u15	A respectable president. It may be the fastest way, but not necessarily the most efficient way. When we look at innovation in a larger context, it's important to start early because it takes a little time to work in it. The people who have access to these productions are the people who are supposed to have a chance to do something else, new and better from them. They don't necessarily throw away three billion people in an Iceland lab or something like that, so they can get them off the other side. The government's situation proposed the first package of nine billion innovations, while the government had three billion. It's coming out of the hat now that we're talking to a couple of novelists in innovation that the six billion people there are really practical numbers. There are numbers that easily fit into the standard conventions that we have in our innovation fund, Technologies, Research Fund, etc. The funds could easily have been used for the pursuit of the fund. That's the opportunity we're missing out on, for there's the future job. [[The president calls.]] While we are, of course, trying to defend what we have and what is unused, we are looking to the past, not just the future, when it comes to solutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u16	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for bringing up a discussion on research, innovation, and education. It's a long run. It takes some time to get on and then, as I said before, to crystal in some way its importance. I'm going to hope I get it. Because I'd like to have someone to take the lead in this. On the other hand, it has long been known that tourism, a business shared, contains challenges when it comes to job structure. We can call it complications. I don't have time to explain everything, but I don't think we should ever lose sight of the importance of innovation and research. I think this is a showdown in policy, that we have the potential to put more money and power into research, innovation, and evolution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u17	The president would like to announce that there were a lot of cases in the vote on a variant here, whether to allow the fourth part of the program to come on, so that the variation was inclusive and therefore is not on the agenda for this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u18	President. I want to make a very serious comment at the conference board. The president of the Alleglais, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, earlier when he tried to smuggle a case on a program without consulting members of the council. The Economic and Business Committee has found to bring up the bill that the President attempted to establish earlier, which made it understandable for members of the Committee to agree with members of the Parliament, as has been customary so far. But instead of being so light of talking with members of the council of the government opposition to get the matter on the agenda, the president uses bullies. I feel so sad, honored President that I have feared this very thing. I was afraid the president would take advantage of the opportunity when the senators are not given a program in front of them - when meetings are held in front of one another, we do not have a perspective on what is being agreed on - to slip the case on a program without speaking to members of the council. What a tragedy! I think it's a good thing to have confirmed that the president had the wrong conclusion of the vote because the request for a form to be passed through the council was more fortunate. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u19	Mr. President. We're talking about one of the biggest and most important matters in this so-called senator. We're changing government financial policy. It's done for rich reasons. Iceland is going through its deepest crisis for 100 years. Can you imagine, 100 years? The nation's main work has collapsed. Unemployment has never been as much as predicted by autumn. The crown's dignity has greatly diminished, notice that. And the demand in many economys has collapsed. Of course, these factors have upset the financial issues that require a review of financial policy. However, I would like to remind you, Mr. President, that a financial policy valid for five years is generally meant to remain unchanged for five years. It didn't go any better than that, so she was revised last year too. It was for Covid, notice. The rise of the State in 2019 Covid was 70 billion. It's worse than it was. Of course, it is a blame for the financial regime of the Independence Party that often boasts of being good in financial management. Experience shows that it is not. The numbers show that they do not. I reiterate that the reversal occurred before Covid reached the country. Prior financial, financial, and financial policies of this government have been criticized for being unrealistic and too optimistic. There is no change in tradition today. The money policy we now discuss is our opinion in the United States based on far too optimistic factors. Economic growth is expected to take on immediately next year and to be almost 5%. It's not a little economic growth. It is assumed that the dollar will not change anything. In what world is it going to happen, why? Senators? Similarly, little inflation is expected in the next few years. Unfortunately, Mr. President, it will not come true, even if only for the gang effect. When the crew drops, the price goes down. She'll be less worthless. Import costs more. We buy a lot in Iceland because we don't make much money here. Imported goods will be more expensive. I'm very concerned about increasing inflation here. It's always happened in previous trials. Why should there be a change now? We need to watch this. As soon as there is such an unrealistic foundation, the value of this course is extremely low, Mr. President. We see that financial counsel, an independent financial advisor's order, says that policy is both incontrovertible and inexplicable. Industrial organizations say that there is a danger of overstimulated economic reversal and economic organizations in similar areas. It is not just the governor of the United States General Ágúst Ólafur who says this. We're being warned by heavy interests. Of course, we hope that it will come true from the economy and it will be cut less. But we too need to be realistic. We need to be ready to deal with a more serious situation. Unemployment is the main problem today. That's an emergency at the Icelandic labour market. Let's take a look at our jobs. The number has decreased by 20,000. People have left the job market. And what are 20,000 jobs? There are more jobs than combined in the entire East, all the West and Akureyri. If I go back one year, the Icelandic labour market has lost 30,000 jobs. I can thus add all my jobs to the sad comparison I draw here. These are so gigantical numbers, Mr. President, that there is reason to take them very seriously. They depend on the lower labour market. People are leaving the workforce for many reasons, but then we have unemployment, a smaller proportion of this labour market. Unemployment is not just talking. These are individuals, families, 20,000 Icelanders, who have lost their jobs. 20,000 Icelanders out of work. The conflict in a Icelandic labour market is a complete and financial body, an independent advice, arranged by qualified economists, states: The largest and most serious economic consequence of the current situation is high unemployment...◯ That's why it's so important that we have another kind of government that's not just the government of the lowest business, because there are different categories in this government. That's why it's so important that we have a government that's a professional figure, a government that's not tied on the edge of the right slap and swamp. I've had a fight with the highest. The minister of finance and the provincial leader of the Independence Party in the process of commercial development since the collapse. I'd like to, of course, increase my jobs in the private sector. That's what I've been calling repeatedly. Let's put more money in the new world. New birth is a magic word in a crisis. But I would like to take a look at the entire operation of this government. Only 5% of all the Covid activities will undergo innovation. It is a tragic testimony to too little emphasis on innovation that strengthens the private market. I have also called for support from public service. We're supposed to increase the number of public jobs, and I'm not talking about some professional employment or anything like that. I'm talking about raising the number of public jobs to cope with unemployment but also to improve the quality of our ministry. We need nurses. We need a corpsman. There's no police. People are short on the child protection system. More scientists are missing. More social advisers are needed. More psychologists are missing within the medical and school schools. The opportunity is many. We've educated a lot of these people. We need to decide. I suggested the idea of whether we should not use this peculiar time and shorten our work weeks in such a way that people have the same salary ◯ key: keep the same pay for a shorter week of work. This, of course, results in the need to hire more people. Let us consider that idea. This could be done in many places by the government. Let's be a little fertile, a little original, professional. Think of what brings the most results. Official work is profitable. All summer long I've had an argument with independents who are always talking about the fact that valuable things are only in the private sector. It's just wrong. It's not just those who work for privates. That's wrong. Public work is of great value, and many of these jobs make the work easier in the private sector. We need investment initiatives, big investment campaigns that create jobs and spend jobs. I can mention all kinds of ideas. Of course, more energy must be put into practice, on transportation improvements. Let's make a big effort to create innovation, technology, energy exchange and environment. Let's put our bets on the movie and TV. I don't know how many guys I've thought about that. It's such an easy way for us to bet on the TV and movie sector. I've said it could be our next Eyjafjörðurjokull. It generates activities, taxes, jobs, the future traveller. All this sector calls for is that we'll increase the payback rate. We could do it after lunch. The minister might, but she won't. Let's go to massive vegetable production, let's not just let it go along a little while the Ministers remember it. Become a big vegetable nation. We've got everything we need. We have hot and cold water and the energy. This is something we should do with much greater force. I know it's only being rubbed on this but let's do it in part by a more defined employment policy. Let's be immigrants on some vegetables. Of course, we're supposed to be able to produce something for the domestic market, but we're going to think a little bigger. I'm gonna cast the idea out of this chair that Icelandic vegetables don't have to be cheap. We can totally sell our vegetables. We are exported to fish on a global scale. Let me tell you, an Icelandic fish is an animal in international markets. He's an animal. He's good. And he's healthy, healthy, and so on. It's self-sustaining. Consider, for example, the vegetables. This does not have to be a category of political differences. We sell vegetables and support vegetable farmers by subsiding electricity, subsiding transport costs, and helping them get started. Sometimes money needs to be spent to make money, and the production of vegetables is an example. Now about 5% of your livestock contract goes into vegan production. Let's change it. Four times the product of vegetable production, instead of increasing it by one-quarter as the government aims it. They want to increase vegetable production by one-quarter. I say, four times that. It can be done. In view of what we are doing these days, there is nothing particularly expensive. We need to promote art. For what are the foreigners best known among foreigners? Our art. It's music, movies, TV, and art. All kinds of art. Work and research, development of technology in health care, drug development, computer development, various forms of technology. There are many opportunities. Now is the chance for us, the State, to participate. We now have things that were not allowed before. The State must face a crisis. When the demand is thus drawn together in the private market, the public is expected to enter. I've already said that and I'll say it again. Keynes taught us that lesson 100 years ago. Governments, whether right or left, are doing this. I spent the summer looking at contractures, so to speak. I listened to one voice after another as to what governments did in crisis. There was a contingency among experts that the main failures made by governments in crisis are too small. When we are in such a deep crisis, we cannot do too much. We need to throw the Internet elsewhere. Some things will work, that's all. Now everyone has to row in the same direction, create jobs, make plans, and start the bikes again. That's too little of it. I'm ordering the governments for fine works. You have the help to do more. But there's so little going to happen while you're at the highest level. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, controls everything he wants to control. Where are the other ministers? There are three classes in this government. Where are the fingerprints of the advance party and the left green or some independent people I know can totally agree with all the things I'm talking about here? We always see leaks from the Ministry of finance, an old-fashioned thought, not to do particularly much, that we should rely on a so-called automatic swing regulator. Meanwhile, the government's on its own. I want an aquifer government that spits in all its parts. When the wheels return to the turn, we pull, the public, to rest. That's how it works, Mr. President. By doing so, we add to our valuable creations, productions, and activities. As the activity increases, we get tax returns. The government will take about one-third of what is produced in this country through taxes. It costs money to make money. Let's do it. For Covid, there were problems in many social and public infrastructures, let alone now. Remember the discussion in January before Covid arrived. I don't know how many interviews I interviewed in January for the Land Hospital position. Then the staff there said, "It's an emergency. The staff's words. There was an emergency at the Land Hospital for Covid. Can you imagine what the situation is now? So I wondered, " Why are the new financial conferences held at the Land Hospital, health care, aging institutions, schools and even innovations, artists, etc.? ' The mask is still inside. I think it's so wrong to make a special impression on these people at the year Covid 2020. And the years 2021 and 2022. If there is any belief in a universal requirement to achieve the economy, is it not a rule for storing it to 2020? Is this the right time for a special requirement? V.E.G. The minister said: "Yes, we need to prevent waste. " I can be sure that there's not much waste at the Land Hospital today. I don't see any special waste in the clinic or school. It's just the right manpower and the shit that I'm always critical of: "Aggression, economy." You can call it anything, but by a special requirement, the Agency gets less money. This includes the bramble. A minister also said that it was such a small fanny. Since it appears in his own financial program, a quote begins: a maintenance goal is expected to meet 5.3 billion dollars. decrease in interest rate to name in the first year of the year... -- to 5 billion is a lot. And if you look at the cumulative maintenance of the financial program, take note of this, this is in the minister's own text - again you begin with a quote: ▪ Overall, the cumulative continuation period is 57.7 billion bucks, and you think that's a small amount? It's about the whole system. It's not a small piece of stock. If a person wants to succeed, he does so at a different time than he is now. In addition, I would like to point out that in the program it is said that people in the welfare system will not be increased by the rights of the people: ◯ unless there is a corresponding reduction in costs in other transfer systems. The transfer system is another word for improvement. V.E.G. A financial strategy is produced by a financial minister, so the suicide party's fingerprints are everywhere. We have considered this policy at the crime scene, where there are more senators than are independents. How is it that we do not change this? But most of it doesn't count on it. Why can it not be understood that, in some cases, it may not only be necessary to defend the system but also to improve it without turning back to another source? Certain groups in this community are getting into a lot of trouble. Poor things are growing in this country because of unemployment, and poverty is a miserable lot in our rich country. Poor people will not cease to exist even if the benefits are low. It's so important to have a good - looking and generous welfare system here. Losing people in poverty sucks, let alone long - term poverty. It is an economic waste, and it is social and health-predicted for the relevant and relevant families. Therefore, there should not be written in the financial policy of the Government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, that an additional cent should be put in the relief system unless a reduction occurs. But that's not good politics, Mr. President. This went unchanged through the budget board, where a representative of the left green sits, and where the Prosecution Party's representative sits and is the chairman. I've encouraged my partners and I've been cooperating with the Committee. I am warm to mostly less members of the Committee, but I am Korean of them because I know that they have their heart in place. Let's do it. I've been on top of the board, I've been chairman of a government committee, and I know exactly what it means. I also know that there are more adjustments and requirements for the Ministers. The Minister's Department in Iceland - and it's not just tied to this government - is way too much. All of us who sit in this room and have the legal authority and financial resources are too often viewed as some sort of stamp pad of the European Commission. On the contrary, on the consciences of a large number of members of the Parliament, things go very unchanged. I know that many members of the Parliament are living up to the two cases I'm supposed to call on, keeping a demand for hospitals and schools, and here it is decided that there is no improvement in the improvement system unless there is a decline. But why don't we change this? V.E.G. Minister has returned policy. She's come to us. We can certainly send a stronger and more positive message than the chairman of the Independence Party was ready to do. This policy goes to 2022. Next week, we'll get a financial plan. There'll be more politics in it. We have a law on public financial matters, and that law has financial laws. They are strict, e.g. A rule that the total balance of the government needs to be positive over a period of five years. There is also a rule that we should pay off our debts fairly quickly. It is far too steep in my opinion to let the financial rules, such strict rules, take effect at once in 2020. It is important that the members of Congress who participate in this discussion say this and now that we are not going to let the financial code hold 2023/2025 because we are now heading to a great corner of the state's budget, and we are supposed to take longer to dig down. Above all, we owe ourselves. Among other things, the cow bank has been printing money. Unlike what was in the bank collapse when we owed much money abroad, we can take longer to reach the angle. If we don't, if we let the financial rules come in right after two years, there's a bloody government cuts. And what is the government? I can sometimes hear the tip of the question. Publicly, we and you, the public are schools and roads and surveillance agencies that keep on the watch for our well - being as consumers, taxpayers, or anything. The welfare system is the nursing home, health care, the county, whatever. This is all we are prepared to defend because it improves our standard of living and quality of life. It also spreads its burdens. The earnings of the Icelanders vary. I have repeatedly criticized the increase in property balance in Iceland. There's another discussion. We need a system that grabs the worst in our society. We need to watch out for those who rely on the public ministry. And who are they? There are elderly, poorer, students, patients, and poor people. These are tens of thousands of groups. These are groups we shouldn't have hit 2023. We need to protect our system, though it may cost us longer to pay off our debts and to lay low. All right, let's do it. I hope most senators agree with that. The way we deal with this matters. I know I'm a bit pessimist on the Icelandic economy, but for a shorter time. I would also like to remind people that they will eventually shine. It's not our first economic collapse, and unfortunately, it's not the last one. But we have extraordinaryly powerful and important human beings in every Iceland and in us as a community. We have natural resources. We have countless opportunities to get out of this with a cohesive power and with the will to leave no one behind. But then we need to protect our well - being and to spit on employment and investment. We need protection in our best interests, and we need to get on the job. We can do that. A unique song, Mr. President, is now to think very much, thinking of the ideology of the mixed economy held by the richest countries of the earth. We need to abandon the oppressive right course of independence and go the way of an equal, for it is righteous, and it is also good economics. It creates valuables, creates jobs, increases activity, allows everyone to enjoy themselves. We're 3 60,000 people on this small island. To put these figures in context, today there are just as many people in the world as there are Icelanders. The population of Iceland is born again tomorrow. We are a small society but can be a rich society, a more just society, if only we will share our burdens. A mild blow to the weakened groups, such as microgouts and parts of the elderly, and an easy life for students. Now it is a challenge to reach out. Of course, it's crazy, Mr. President, and bordering on inhumanity, to expect Icelanders who lose their jobs to live at 400,000 bucks. by tax. It's the unemployment benefits. We in the United States have repeatedly suggested that we raise our unemployment rates. We cannot expect our friends and fellow citizens to survive this shamefully low unemployment. Let's get them up at least temporarily. Let's start with that if there's something we can get together about. And remember, if we raise benefits to people who have little compensation, it will destroy them all. These people have no choice but to spend every dollar they get, because the benefits are so low. We live in one of the most expensive societies in the world. We cannot offer our fellow citizens such a small compensation. We don't have to. The benefits can be increased. The only thing lacking is political will. I hope so much, Mr. President, that after the next election, we get a government that's thinking about people, not just firms. We need a government to further both the public and the private enterprise. We need a government that creates jobs, but we don't just lay down the information. We need a government that has grown and that views its goals as more than a government stability, as the prime minister said is the primary objective of the government. What Is Stability in Government? That's holding the minister's chair. Where is the ambition of this government? A government that leans back and trusts in the automatic rhythms of government affairs is a government that does little. Now we need a government that'll do more. Now we need a government with regard to all groups of people who are going to get the business started, to create jobs, and to improve the quality of life and the standard of living for all Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u20	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst, Ólafur of Ágústsson, was a little black and early bright. A lot of what happened. A senator came in, I can say. It's all our job to deal with the unemployment that is rapidly building up in these circumstances, and to prevent long - term noncooperative work. All of us can share that goal. Then it's a question of how. Research, innovation, and evolution are factors that should remain in our system and environment, and we can always do better there. I can agree with that. Hv. A senator introduced the energy and vegetable production, art, culture, sports, public work, movies. We made additional contributions to most of those events during springtime. I can agree with many of those things. A senator came into it, but we're talking about unemployment, and we've already invested as much as we do in travel services, where the rise has been great. Large growth has been occurring in recent years, and natural resources are part of the reason Iceland is a desirable destination. Now we have a lot of relaxation, unemployment has become a major factor in tourism and production equipment in hotels, in long cars, in the fences, in other types of rooming, etc. But what I felt was lacking in this speech is, " Am I not correct in understanding? ' A senator, so that we can recover quickly, and we can meet this, don't we need to consider traveling to that level?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u21	Mr. President. Yes, indeed, I agree. Senator. We need to keep in mind the insides we already have. We have extraordinary knowledge and resources in our tourism. Some 30,000 people worked in tourism and part of our work structure would be to rebuild travel services. And when the vaccine is found, naturally tourists will come back here again. We have so much to offer. Yes, of course, we need to care for our tourism. But while it's freezing, we need to think about something else. That's why I'm just gonna give you one example. I really like betting on TV and movies. It's a giant industry. If we were to get more work done here from Netflix and more giants in that area, this would create a demand for those who have been involved in travel services. What do they do with the camera crew? They use restaurants, hotels, bus companies, guides, etc. This would be just a trade, where we could attract people to us who would make jobs with the people who were losing their job. It's not a small example. Many countries are betting on film and television. There is a high demand for material, and we can see that Netflix published a statement that Iceland was one of the few places where a new material could be taken up. What was so sad was that we did not take that step in spring. I remember screaming right here in spring: "Let's do this, I said. But okay, okay, let's do this now. Another thing I could do in my speech was vegetable production. I know why. A senator agrees with me there. Yes, let's tend to travel, cherish the infrastructure we already have. Let's do a lot of things, but don't make any sense. We need to cast the Internet wide, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I expected this answer, which is very sensible, i.e. that we must consider the future variety. You can see that, compared with other nations in the economic recession, the importance of tourism is more than around here, and it is a major part of the contractions. In these circumstances, we need to get tourism back online to cope with our unemployment as soon as we focus on our diversity. With the reimbursement of filmmaking, that's right. A senator comes in here, that this opportunity is not left us. I share my mind. It has also been observed that movie studios can prolong the time of those staying here on movie projects. I think we're supposed to go into this work with a financial program. Of course it's true that we sometimes have to work faster than we cleaned up all our refunds in this system in our spring, so we have a chance there, I agree. I thought it was interesting what happened. In his speech, a senator admitted that the Ministry of finance was self - controlled. We discussed the economy requirement here, but isn't there some contradiction in this? If we didn't have this built - in economy requirement, and I call it a positive impulse - the Landsspike has a 70 billion contribution, 350 million. K. in management of control and organization. Isn't there some contradiction in that, speaking of self-control, if it wasn't necessary to always look around to do things more effectively when it comes to using public funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u23	Mr. President. No, I don't think that's a contradiction. And then I'm going to remind you that it's not a contaminant of everything. The budget, the straddler's passage, shows that there is no stipulation of social security and unemployment. There are no rights to the health insurance and the courts. If the government is ready to pass on a court order, why is it not ready to skip school, hospitals, health care, and aging agencies? That's what I'm calling for, at this time at least The gesture of not having a permanence requirement is at hand. I also assume that this device was placed in place for Covid -- pay attention to that. Now is Covid, a pandemic. Now our people are under tremendous pressure in the forwards. And since we are ready to have no legal rights, we must be able to make the political decision to skip the requirements, at least, at health institutions, in nursing institutions, and in school. That's what I'm calling out for. I hope the next thing you know, it'll be when the financial plan comes. I just don't think it's possible. I don't know how much this was discussed with the board of directors. I hope it was just a mistake. But they had the opportunity to correct this in the Committee, and they chose not to do so. So I cannot help but conclude that it is the political will of the government to hold onto this requirement. I'd also like to remind you about the wands, I came to this in a previous answer, that there were statements coming from the sceptres' organization. It showed that the proportion of sceptres funded by technology has never been lower. This is contrary to what the Minister of Creation has been saying, it's being spit so hard in innovation that we can be proud of. The proportion of funding from Technical Development Fund has never been lower than in modern Covid. [[The president calls.]] This is what I want to draw out here and that we can do better. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator agrees, at least I hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, he was a busy man. I just want to run on a few things. I don't know any better than being putting more money in vegetable production now than ever before. The ideas they're working on are the magnitude we haven't seen before in Iceland, and there's a lot of innovation and a great job in vegetable production and it'll be over in the years. Movie production - in the three budgets that we did here in June - added exactly 2.1 billion in movie makings. Thus, this government has been doing very much of the film - making business. I find it unfair to belittle the budget and the emphasis that has been on strengthening the important sectors that many of us are eager to develop and grow in a good way that has recently been possible. We're seeing great and melancholy paces there, even in the last few days, which turn e.g. The investments of foreign people in Icelandic films and shows. Something's good about it. Investor investments on the part of the state - that is an amazing debate that has existed on earlier issues today and yesterday and then again here - have doubled in this government's time, from about 46 billion to 92 billion, and then we are adding even further to the next national budget. We have presented this investment campaign in the autumn before 2021, 2022, and 2023. There's a lot going on, so it's not fair to talk about the fact that much is being done there. It is being done tremendously because of the natural investments of the empire, which are due for a long time. There's a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u25	Mr. President. Regarding the movie sector: What was added. spring, then what? A senator knows this, was to meet earlier commitments to reimburse the cost of production. It was an older commitment committed to the State, made clear. There was no addition to attracting new assignments. Of course, the State should fulfill its previous commitments, but there is no effort to attract new assignments, and that is what I call for. The remuneration rate, 25%, remains unchanged. People who work in this sector have said, "Go it up to 35%." It's all about it. Other countries have been doing this, Ireland and Malta, why don't we? It attracts tasks. In case of a moment. A senator is concerned about this must be able to come with me on that journey. Let's go up the reimbursement rate and increase contributions to the movie fund as well. I'm going to remind you, because I know these numbers, that in the budget of this year, 2020, 30% was cut down in reimbursement due to film making through the film fund. It was the message given when this year's budget was approved. This is important because we have bad opportunities here. I know there are things you can do about your injections for a practical procedure. I'm not saying nothing was done, I'm just saying there's much more to do. If we look at budgets one and two, practical projects up to 30 billion are an increase of 3%. Do people really think that a 3% increase in government spending on practical projects, transport benefits primarily, enough to meet the deepest crisis for 100 years? I say no. I know why. A senator is concerned about many improvements in the country and hopefully here in the city as well. Here we can do more and more, and faster. [[The president calls.]] Industrial organizations have repeatedly called attention to this, and local societies say: " We can do more if we receive funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u26	President. As mentioned in the case of what? It would be interesting for a senator to add up the amount of money to 2020 and three extra money that went to make films in order to get the total money this year. It would be far more righteous. It's a reimbursement system we've had, but it has to be financed and maintained. We can't let it go, it's a system that's been built up like this. For investments in transport edifications, and why. A senator knows that I am a big fan of transportation and investments in them, and it would be the strongest thing anyone could do here in the capital area to go to the Sun path and start to think about it. What an attitude! A senator with regard to that important project? We're doing amazing things and so many things. Technological Development Fund, research - these factors are being financed more than we've been taking care of for years. That's a huge amount of money and high percentages that have been going on. Let us consider only the transfer systems and their development in recent years. When we're talking about the transfer system, we're under the non-employment insurance budget, the birth stock, the business of the elderly, and the matters of micro-employment. This proportion in the state bill has increased from 14.8% to 23.2% in the past ten years. The transfer system has increased by 8 percent of the total accounts. Thus, there is nothing more to say than the fact that things are being done. This may have been one reason why it has been less possible to invest in transport infrastructure during the past year. This is a fine discussion and a lot of work to do. I refuse that nothing has been done. Unbelievably, much has been done in a number of fields during the past three years of government and financial gain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u27	Mr. President. The independent party feels that she has done enough, but then let's just ask if people agree with it. Do the movers of the country agree that enough has been done? Do older citizens agree that enough has been done? Do students agree that enough was done? What about the staff at the Land Hospital who said that their workplace is a medical emergency? Is it people who say that enough was done? Do poor people, including 6,000 children, say that the Independence Party has done enough? These are questions that we need to answer repeatedly here and say that we did enough. I haven't done enough yet. There's been plenty done for some people. Fishing costs have dropped by half during the season; taxes have been reduced on large ships. Bank taxes have been reduced and the place has been covered with low capital income taxes, which few pay. Enough has been done for the ostracism, but not enough for the groups we should be concerned about. Transport has not been enough. I know why. A senator is concerned about this. There's more to do. This need to be done more justly. The Corporate Community declared last year about the budget: All the cases involving disabled people and micro-vital candidates are starving. Are these the words of a group that think that enough has been done? No, Mr. President. And if you think that enough is done, it is time for them to have time off from ruling this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u28	A respectable president. I'm here with a short commission view, and it's not an enormous amount of time to work things out these days, as it goes and happens. This may be just a technical opinion, but in the rest of the section, which is not exactly in the opinion but in the speech, I'll have a little more political in my speech. Pirata's course has been from the moment the code began to focus on the future, seeing how society is developing and changing. As we think about the future, the secretary of finance says: "We need Iceland 2.0, but he doesn't realize that this policy was in effect at the turn of the century. By then the 2.0 revolution had begun, and we have reached 4, 5, 0, and so on, we have come far from 2.0, a respectable president. Yet, here has recently been approved for interesting cluster and digital architecture policies. In spring, I thought it would be an excellent opportunity to take in the council's approval of cluster policy and digital carpenters to build the core of innovation across the country. You see, the opportunities in it are vast. We receive information from the Technical Development Fund, which says that the distributions given there are equal to each part of the country in proportion to the number of applications, the vast majority of applications in the capital area. This was about the year, for example. no application from the East. This is something that would be easy to tackle if it were a better position for people to approach and help them build up for the future. Solutions we see in government financial policy are solutions that have already been tried, tested, and failed. Blew and crack in our face, certainly with the help of a pandemic, but all signs of how this would go down before it began, as clearly shown in a revised financial policy last year. This is the second revised financial policy during this terms. Piratar and I have thought of the next steps forward, so we concentrate on strengthening people to instead of the political regime we've seen in government policy so far. It pours billions of dollars into central markets instead of using and distributing the requirements and building up from the roots. We've talked about unfounded support, especially in such a situation, because it's a good idea to allow people to try things, as demonstrated by a recent council-based adjustment program. Pirats and I would have wanted to go further, but this is an example of what Pirats and I have been talking about. We want to look to the future and find solutions, not ancient ones. We don't want to continue, as we have done in Iceland, always putting all the eggs in the same basket. We do it all the time. The fairy tale: we caught all the fish. Aluminium: Build aluminium plants for 80% of the energy we produce. Banks: take all the banks, get the best in banks in the whole world. And now the tourism. She was out of control, a respectable president, completely out of control. True, she brought income and economic growth to the country, but there was destruction in many parts of the country, on natural bulbs, due to a lack of regard for the number of tourists who came here. I'd like to call this whale-crowding economy, since we'll always wait for the next whale drivers and drive our economy and profit forward on the whales. It's not self-sustaining for long periods of time. The government has repeatedly said that it builds its course on stability. But that's exactly the problem, a respectable president. It is sustainable, but not stable, which is important because sustainability, not vice versa, but sustainability. Stability is also a firm resolve. In ever-changing society - it's not more than thirteen, fourteen years since the first smart phone came - society makes huge changes in how we approach ever - changing problems and challenges to the future. We see a tremendous development in energy production and technologies in food production that could overthrow other basic working roads here on land, both agriculture and fishing roads. Energy technologies can also completely change our competitiveness to form in labour, etc. where cheap and environmental energy will no longer be Iceland's special property. This is the future that we look forward to, and we have not taken steps toward that future in any way yet. The law on public financial matters discusses baseline financial policies and financial programmes, if I now switch to the technical part. There I call attention to the baseline transparency, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ A statement consisting of setting clear and measurable goals for a long time for the development of public funds in line with baseline [...]. Regular comparisons of objective and effectiveness should be made with clear scales. It is not only in financial planning but also in financial policy. This is really important. The baseline transparency value is very important, especially in crisis situations like we now have in the code. When the General grants the government its legal resources, as has been the front of the year in the documents for which we have provided them, it is the obligation of the European Commission to provide regular information on the development of public funds. The obligation of the European Commission will be so much higher in a crisis situation with such open sources that no information has been received so far. The last of our teams approved three hundred million dollars of funds, but no financial committee has received information on developments since then. Nothing about the budgets given and nothing about whether the situation is better or worse than expected in spring. The only answers we receive are uncertain. But it is the right place for governments to establish groundwork, set floors, make floors constantly to stand on, and eliminate uncertainty. I'll agree that in this financial policy it's done in part by confirming that it should follow an automatic swing policy. Despite the suburbanity and decrease in the income of the government, however, the rights of citizens and public service will be maintained. The government takes on the cost of earnings and expenses there. There's something to do in a down cycle. There should be no specific commendation for this unless it may be unusual that it is done, amazing but true, that what is to be done is to be done. So giving commendation is as much as it does. In a revised financial policy, the government's political objective is tore up. It is a resistance to public finances that deals with how to carry out the work that is to be carried out despite a shrinking income. Fine. Great. It is really useful how it is carried out with key public figures on the labour market, etc. Then there are two goals; the value of jobs, investments, and increased prosperity; the text; and the more efficient services and sustainable public finances. That's no reason, nothing. There are no, as men say, measurable goals to determine whether the goals of the course are really being met. It is important when the administration, the government, comes and says: "We need money to achieve our goals. We're not going to tell you what our goals are, but we're going to have a lot of money. How does it seem fair to the council that holds the budget? How is it fair to the common people who have to pay taxes and give their dues? My opinion is that of this lack of transparency in government goals. The words may be beautiful and definitely something I would put in financial policy myself, but I would like to have more support. After all, it is essential that the objective of the government be based on evidence. It's the floor we can stand on, the logic is holding. That we can say that the situation will improve because we're doing this and this. The aim is to achieve unemployment from 6.7%, as foretold next year in national economic forecasts, to 3◯4%. Would that not be a worthwhile goal? Would that be a realistic goal? It is one thing that financial advises have a measure of criticism in the laws on public finance, a lack of a realistic view of government law on government finance as a baseline value. Anything can be said. It can be said that unemployment should go down to 1%, but it is not necessarily realistic to get caught, let alone in one year, if at all possible. This is no objection to valuable work and increased prosperity or emphasis on education, innovation, and more efficient service. We always say that. That's what everybody says, of course. Is anyone going to say otherwise? No, we're going to skip education, we're going to focus on worthless jobs. These are self - righteous truths, so they really do not mean anything unless they explain why they are there. In financial policy, the measurable goals listed on public finances are missing so that regular comparisons of goals and effectiveness can be made with clear scales. The problem we face, for example. Prosthetics now, is unemployment. Long - term workaholics need to be prevented. When economic forecasts say six.7% unemployment next year, the government's financial policy must somehow change it. Nothing is said about it unless we are going to focus on valuable jobs. What valuable work is that? I went over it in answer to what. Chairman of the budget board earlier. We see the importance of the government's work in tourism, which is a fine price, but is that a valuable job? Certainly they create a lot of currency, etc., but it's a low-paying job. Is that the definition of the government of valuable jobs, the profit they create for society, and not for the individual who works the job? Is there not a lot of ideologies that argue over what it means when a job becomes very lucrative, but a small portion of it becomes a profit? Is the definition of valuable work by the government that nurses need to be subjected again and again? What is the value there? Is it possible to serve and serve as nurses, but are they in the nurse's reward? Why, then, would nurses have had such lengthy debates about their purchases and terms? Is it because they have a good salary? Probably not. The result is still a case because the value remains in places other than the pay law of nurses. It's a long story. The rest of the season. You see, it's kind of weird when it comes to everything. That's a bigger problem we face, and that's a ideological problem. When financial conservative control followed the collapse, all emphasis was put on paying up debt, which is good and blessed to a certain extent. Iceland's debt was quite high, and the burden of interest was also very high, but not all debts were taken into account. The focus was on paying off money debt, but it was forgotten to consider the debt I've been talking about, as I've often talked about. During the pay of money debts that had an easy rate of growth, it was forgotten to maintain transportation systems, education systems, health systems, where it is difficult to calculate the growth that comes from maintenance. They need to be kept in mind. We can see now that after the worn - out and money debt was finally made up and we got out of the collapse in a pretty good place, there was a huge inner debt in large areas of the community of several hundred billion, according to the findings of the Industrial Association. The project was certainly starting, e.g. in transport, we were extending transport donations in the previous proportion of land production since collapse or in most cases, but it was not beyond that. And once again, we're stuck with this wooden debt in another downturn. Happily, it is enough work to take, which is reasonably profitable, and the government made an investment effort. But looking at future work brings us a tremendous amount of investment because these are temporary projects. Where do they go after that? Yes, we may be making enough progress in innovations so that companies that are formed within the clusters and digital carpenters all over the country, projects in the Fragile settlements, and all kinds of exciting projects that are being carried out by e.g. A construction agency, perhaps well enough for the projects set in motion, which are relatively lightweightly stepped on the newborns'fuel supply. We now see that a very low percentage of applications was assigned to the Technical Development Fund. Hugely low. There were a lot more applications than usual, which was really expected, of course. It has happened before, perhaps not to such an extent, but it was predictable. It was predictable that the government provided 3 billion in its first package, the first box of resistance, while the government's opposition set out to reach 9 billion. Now that we get a client to come and explain what the situation is, the amount of money like 5 or 6 billion will be heard, which would have been easy to use for a national job right away. Losing the time that has passed since spring until now has a snowball effect. We have lost six months when we could have begun to feel the benefits of that much sooner. That's a sad situation. Maybe I'm optimistic, but I asked if there's anything you can get, e.g. A representative from the Technical Development Fund, since we have funding for discussion, to help us understand the situation. Sadly, though, there was no sound basis for that. Perhaps it would have been possible to start these 6 billion people now, since that was not done six months ago. But, no, not now, maybe later. Perhaps this will be illustrated in a new financial program that will be published in less than a month. There has just been a policy of the Scientific and Technical Council, which is similar to the financial policy here, filled with cool words, but little about measurable goals. No amount of committees. Prior policies by the Scientific and Technical Council set criteria for e.g. The level of educational contributions relative to OECD, etc, which was never met by any of the detailed targets set in the years before. Perhaps that is why they no longer set intangible goals, for governments never lived up to what they said. Isn't that remarkable? I think it's very important, and I think it's very informative. We'll see it again and again. They're praising assignments here and there all over the country. But then nothing happens except biting. In the end, before the election, there are 100 million thrown in here, 10 million there, etc., in order to say, "The mission has begun. It's a headache for the next elected period to finish it. This is an ongoing demand for all the vital assignments that are waiting all over the country and that are ready, and we are ready to benefit from them. But for some reason, they are never funded. I have a theory, just my personal theory, that politicians, so classically seen, would be comfortable having unfinished assignments everywhere because they can promise so much. That's how it is, for example. ... witha beach fishing system. If we were to just finish it properly and put on a real free hand-fishing hunt, some politicians couldn't promise patches on the current beach fishing system, just before every election, and they carried on their minds and said, "I've already fought for this system, and we invented this system. But the system's not good. It's not. Everybody knows that, there's a problem with that. It should be rather obvious to arrive, e.g. versus new ideas about letting you fish in September. No, that's not good enough. You may be able to promise that before the next election. Another campaign to get some little things through. No real changes, no real financing, in places where it's important. No new constitution in spite of national law. Not a new quota system, despite obvious problems. Not a new-born policy for the future. It is being buried in the ruins of the past by solutions that at some point worked under some circumstances but not necessarily for the future. Today we are in politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir An excellent speech for Gunnarsson the Leví of Björn. He came from a lot of places, I'm just gonna stop right here at the end of the line, at this point, the issues we're dealing with, and we decided to be assigned this week, because it was getting divorced at the time. Martyrs that we should just isolate ourselves from that matter, and none other than now we should take on even more matters. I'm just wondering, just in case. A senator could explain it a little better, but I had no intention of going into it. First, I want to stop at a very interesting talk because I know why. A senator was here on a very good case at the time, which was adopted by the Council, which is digital carpenters and bandits. We were in a committee program when we were working with the financial bill, perhaps an unexplored idea how we could use the mall and the carpenters. Of course, there is an ideaful source of creation that is to flourish and should be used. I wholeheartedly agree with what I have to say. A senator there knows that he is quite well - versed in all those matters. Then it's the monopoly that we're going to take the cost of technology development when we go over a government budget, it's just confirmed here. I just have one question, I have a why. A senator wondered how much of this study comes in the form of applications for the Technical Development Fund or Research Fund, which is derived from the mall, the self - burning mall, and the digital carpenters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u30	A respectable president. This Senate thing was meant for the important Covid thing, it's nothing more complex than that. Some specific issues were additional, such as financial policy, e.g. otherwise it was for important Covid. I would have thought that there was a bit of business involved, and coastal fishing for people all over the country is definitely business. You might start by talking to the classes and saying, "This is a business we're dealing with and about September. As a result, it is time - consuming. It would be nice to ask, but there was not much questions, and when they arrived, they quickly ran away from them. Let us be absolutely clear. On the other hand, there was a bill on the pension fund, where no one was asked and tried to squeeze it into the council program. It's really amazing if we're gonna talk about what it's like. With the mall and the digital carpenters and the technology fund, I don't have the odds on it. However, applying now to the Technical Development Fund was piled up, and where it came from, I do not have a perspective. It's relatively new, I haven't had time to look at it, I don't even know if I have access to it. I don't have access to the actual classification of individual tasks, etc. It is very important to have the mall and the digital carpenters because they are a meeting place to work with new opportunities. It produces a common place of knowledge that people can use to look for help to find out how to promote their ideas. That is exactly what I feel is missing, and we could easily help people to get financial support for their ideas in the right places. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'd much rather discuss digital carpenters and clusters than the other, it doesn't matter in that context. We put in the Committee opinion when we were working on the budget proposals, some idea of making better use of those places, and I'm starting to wonder. A senator to grab the strand with those here in some sort of process. I know it was just a conversation with the highest. A minister who picked it up from a committee party and took it seriously. But it doesn't have to be reassigned. These are spectacular places for pioneering, and I wanted to come into the mall because I've had ideas of government cluster policy. It has to do with it as a whale. A senator came up with a variety of jobs and diversity of employment, not having all the eggs in the same basket, which is exactly the same, and he described it very well here, which I'm not going to repeat, but public cluster policy has to do with how we're going to direct the production of parts of the country. and in international competition, to direct production factors on a certain channel that makes sense to use them so that not all will go to travel services when it is in the rise and fish when it is in the rise, etc. Hv. A senator linked these values to baseline and said: Self - control can be a stability. I found this interesting because we agree that in these circumstances, the key value is, of course, transparency, as shown in the opinion of a financial body.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u32	A respectable president. Yes, the transparency is always important, and the more important it is in such a state when everything is much faster. There are all kinds of means of handouts, how accurate they are, how they are then used, which require precisely increased transparency. A measure of trust is being given to the government by other means. In turn, the government needs to be transparent to show that they are being treated well. It's all been missing, absolutely missing. I don't know who's involved, obviously the government to begin with, I guess, because it's got something to do with the council, etc. Of course, a financial committee should call out more for information than it hasn't. I sent some e-mails in the summer where I asked a few questions with a reference to a news transfer that you saw in the summer. I didn't get any answers, so I'm a little len's when it comes to all of this. I see cluster policy and digital carpenters slightly different from what they were. Senator. He's talking about turning this into efficient paths, etc. I think that governments should hold on to something, though there may be more emphasis on such things as green solutions or culture and sports in Covid's time as well. So you can place emphasis on it, but you should try to minimize how innovation develops from roots up and down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u33	Mr. President. As all of us know, a pandemic has the basis for a valid financial policy. Over the past few months, the wealth has had to take on substantial expenses and commitments because of the viral epidemic. The expenses of the Kingdom treasure have far exceeded the goals set. The current policies and debt targets have been changed in view that economic prospects are substantially changed for the worse and have not been as dark since the beginning of the world's economic budget, I think they can say, at least From a republican institution. The economic recession becomes more predictable than the 2008 banking crisis. That's what we're talking about. State affairs play a key role in the economy under these circumstances, and it is crucial that governments and the Council make right decisions. In the face of challenging circumstances, economic resistance may not be as powerful as it is necessary and may increase the decline. In many respects, the financial wealth of the state was solid before the global virus epidemic. It is crucial that the stability of the pair of broken - down financial companies was used to pay off the debt of state funds, making it almost negligible and considerably lower than in neighboring countries that we compare with as a proportion of GDP. Sadly, plans for further declines in the debt of the state's funds are in the sand. The debt of the state funds received about 28% of land production in 2019 but, in accordance with a recommendation for the interpretation of financial policies presented here, it is assumed that they may be in 56% during the year 2022, which is a significant increase. This is a complete reversal of events in a short period of time. However, an increase in financial costs would reduce the State's allowance for needed expenses and investments, adding to uncertainty. Nevertheless, financial advice, which is a very important adviser in this work, has declared that debt is still sustainable. The middle class emphasizes that the priorities in government are important in this situation. The goal of making money in public investments must be clear. The media has emphasized the need to reduce the affairs of the State and to make progress in its operation. In the same way, the team focuses on reducing the budget of an enterprise, allowing it to recruit employees, improve remuneration, and work on lucrative investments and innovations, since the category has brought together an amendment on a reduction in insurance payment, which is very important in these circumstances, to give the employers a solid basis to add to the workers in the heavy unemployment we are dealing with. I just want to come to the debt of state funds in the light of this uncertainty. They discuss the so - called uncertainty gap in this discussion, and they like to talk about percentages. Thus, uncertainty is expected to occur as part of land production 2% in 2020, 3% 2021 and 3% 2022. But it is necessary, Mr. President, to recognize the numbers involved. By 2020, this number is less than 57 billion. In 2021, it is less than 93 billion. and in 2022 fewer than 98 billion years. This is an enormous amount of money. These figures show economic levels and proportions that are within the policy range without specifically changing the policy. A financial body stresses that in this situation, when financial and debt rules are put aside, it calls for increased transparency of policy forward. I'll find out more about it, from now on, the transparency is lacking in my judgment. The financial policy lacks a clear understanding of what will take place so that prospects would be less likely than national interest projections and what the possibility of state funds would be to address the increased uncertainty in this regard. The financial policy does not reveal how a government fund is intended to finance a significant estimated palace, i.e. Whether credit is expected within the country or in the foreign markets The financial policy assumes that the sum of the state's debt will be combined during the period it spends nearly 1,200 billion dollars. And that the debt of state funds will likewise increase over that amount. There is a transparency in the opinion of the majority of the items to draw attention to. And, Mr. President, since I didn't get the chance to ask the chairman of the legal committee, why? paritaprevir Now, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, here, would be good to get an answer from him about that below, why not state more transparency in this regard, to which I come to now. The Hall of the State Fund is said to be 500 billion dollars. Over two years, this is mentioned on page 22. 4 in the majority opinion. But it is 1,200 billion in the period of policy. You ask: Why is it not stated in the majority opinion what is in the period of policy? It's just about 500 billion cumulative angles over a two - year period. If the uncertainty gap we've talked about is new and I've explained earlier, the hook has reached nearly 2,100 billion dollars. That's an enormous amount. But this is not mentioned in the majority opinion. You wonder: Is it really hidden? This is at my court, and is critical, and I hope it is. A senator and chairman of the legal committee, Willum Þór Þórsson, can come in later. By the end of 2022, the debt of the state's funds could thus study up to 64% of GDP. Most indicate that the state's budget will live up to this debt, such as the financial rights of the State in its review and, of course, we hope it will. Still, these are really high numbers, and they are, of course, worry, especially if the viral epidemic persists and we have to recover longer than plans are expected. The middle class emphasizes the importance of living in this way in the long run so that debt can quickly decline when the economy resumes. The budget must be prepared for the possibility of further economic events. They come and go, it's only once. This will be most assured by providing conditions for the future's intensive economic growth and by providing integrated economic control and discipline in public financial and financial matters. It must be said, Mr. President, that there is a certain lack of discipline in the government and has been. We in the media have pointed it out in a talk and in a publication. The central category believes that under general conditions the government's debt should be limited to being under investments but that taxes and fees are intended to cover business and services, such as government insurance payments. Suggested financial policy means that there is an increased debt that is used to finance parts of business and transfer. In the financial policy, the middle class does not think that it is clear enough how much of a proposed debt increase in the state's budget is thought to be an investment and to turn to these factors. Then we come back to the transparency that is of utmost importance under the circumstances in which we are in economic affairs. This has emphasized the importance of financial advice. I'm going to take the next step to what I'm calling a member of a committee party 3 less a bit of uncertainty and temptation, as it were. The so - called uncertainty pool that I've explained earlier and is quite large when you look into it is designed to create opportunities to meet unexpected economic events. The central category feels that this expansion will be neither new nor unnecessary investments. Economicism allows for the next year's range of up to 93 billion, 2021. It's a tail. It's not income, it's a limp, it's an increase in the money. During the coming election year, governments will need to resist the temptations of expenses, especially if the shift of employment becomes faster than expected. It is the moral problem that governments start making use of this increased space, this license to add to the compromise of the state funds, in a way that is not expected. It is only expected that it will be new to meet the unexpected effects of the virus epidemic. It is not sufficiently clear in the way the uncertainty shift in the revised policy is determined, particularly because of 2020, where there are no comparisons. A more aggressive approach to the economy is expected to require full transparency of possible results, but is lacking by the government. In his review, financial advisers say that there is a real danger of financial insurrection. This is an interesting tip from a financial body that is very important to be taken seriously. This loose conduct can make for other expenditures than the effects of the viral epidemic if economic costs outweigh current estimates. Next time, Mr. President, I'd like to agree with what I call a work on unemployment. Of course, this is the most urgent work being done by the government, and the Council faces it. Unemployment of thousands of people is the biggest subject facing them. Long - term lack of work can have a very serious effect on financial and health. Predictions suggest that unemployment can go to 10% national by the end of the year. In the South, it's the most and it's heading for more than 20% in the town of Smokeynes. Of course, these numbers are very serious, and therefore, it is very important that there are no differences within the government. In fact, at one time, differences within the government led to countering the necessary maintenance of defenses in Helguvík, the largest part of the financial value of the Atlantic Alliance. This shows that the government does not have the inner strength needed to use available resources against the problem of unemployment. The revised policy presented here is a period devoted to 2018/2022, which includes in its own way a review of policy back in time. I came in for 1st. this case. This is the second change in government financial policy. The policy is generally expressed, and it is oscillating as I have entered, and it lacks the presentation of important factors, such as the assessment of the effects of high unemployment on income and the expenses of the state's budget. It is absolutely essential that there are figures and predictions in these subjects, i.e. impact on income and payment of the state's budget. In particular, financial advisers are not aware of the impact of personal consumption and investment. The main mission of the Generals is to review whether financial policy at a time of high economic uncertainty is in accordance with official financial laws, the basis of the baseline laws. A much more detailed coverage of each baseline level is lacking and how it is proposed. The policy reviews the adaptation of financial policies in the light of financial regulations without adequate explanation or logical support. This question is about how our goals will be reached during the difficult year trip. It is not answered how the government intends to sustain financial policy stability at a time of high unemployment and how governments intend to secure sustainableity in one of the deepest economic crisiss in Iceland. Thus, more important has never been to transparency. The central category stresses that the development of a policy is a transparent policy of measurable goals established by the government and not just for an average of time, as the law says. More important, there is room for measures that ensure sustainableity of public funds and contribute to the stability of the economy at any given time. These important factors are expressed in policy, but in a very general way. An explanation for the economic growth of the International Cash Fund draws attention to the fact that we are not referring to the northern countries that we would like to compare with. An overview of the impact of differentforests, so - called stage photos, is important in financial policies and especially in times of economic instability and uncertainty. The policy assumes that economic growth will take place when it takes place in 2021. Further interpretations are missing on the basis of such predictions. We see, Mr. President, that the whole thing could collapse, so to speak, if the virus epidemic persists and we see a second viral epidemic at the start of the next year as the darker forecasts are expected and reported. There is no more information on the basis of such predictions, and in this case the discussion is far too general. In a more efficient policy, it is clearly stated that economic growth is expected to be considerably higher than in policy management, the overall contribution of the State Fund should be improved at this time. The individual aspects are not mentioned. There is still a lack of adequate transparency, as has previously been emphasized. Other forms of the site have been reported, and this has been reported, including ... ofa financialadvisor. The dark stage set suggests that the second large wave of the virus epidemic will arise early next year and that the economic improvement will not begin until 2022. In the scene, numbers on the potential number of unemployed are missing in the light of baseline criteria and in the light of the darker picture. Such a clear statement would increase credibility and sustainability, especially with regard to the possible use of the uncertainty gap during the election year. I'm about to shorten my case, Mr. President, this time. I'd like to include only the focus of the Central Party on increasing employment and improving the standard of living. The middle class highlights a vision of the future in which policy aims to guide the response of governments and the Generals during difficult times and necessary measures to turn back. The lack of this is on the part of the government and in this policy. The Central Party wants a solid economy with commercial and income development in front of the country that has fallen to promote the welfare and prosperity of the country. The company must live under conditions that allow them to compete with foreign rivals, for example, and they must maintain sufficient amounts of income to enable more people to work on better terms, to engage in profitless investments and innovations that are essential for increased production, and thus improved biographies for the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u34	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for an excellent speech. He identified some factors that are of utmost importance in the context of our considering policy. I came here primarily to react. A senator did not have a chance to give an answer when I gave the opinion of a major body of legal committees, so he intends to turn it around and hope that the president does not make much remarks about it. I'm gonna come in on one thing to use my time. I think I understood a question. The speaker in his talk -- which turns to the uncertainty curve and perhaps first to the text of the committee's list - the mention of a shift to two - year - old. The majority of them made such an effort to make clear, to put off proportions, debts, and uncertainty gaps as a proportion of GDP in real - life, so that they can be understood exactly as a dog. A senator pulled out. This is a table on page 6. 3 so that the accumulated tail for 2021 and 2022 is 1,156 billion. Along with an uncertainty bed that would then accumulate 248 billion, this combined total total total total amount of 1,404 billion, is a substantial sum of money, a collection. We try to put this in perspective and transparency, in some real-time context, so we can figure out the size of the numbers and the ratios and what we're going to deal with in the coming years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u35	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. What I was simply pointing out is that it is very important to have a perfect, transparent kingdom when we review those figures. This is where percentages are put in place when we discuss that the uncertainty range is 2% in 2020, then 3% 2021 and 3% 2022. But behind those percentages, there's an enormous amount of money, as mentioned earlier. 2021, which is only next year, we are talking about 93 billion bucks. It's an election year, and if we get started sooner during the viral season, which we hope to do, there will be some moral hazard. In this regard, financial advisers have discussed that the government is simply tempted to take advantage of the amount of space it has, to some task that is not related to the viral epidemic. It is something of great importance to keep a close eye on, and it was very clear of financial advice that is our chief adviser or expert in this policy. So when it comes to reporting that this is a two - year - old talking of more than 500 billion, it's natural to tell who the number is the whole season, i.e. which is going on, that's 2022, and we're talking about close to $1,200 billion, as I mentioned. Hv. A senator and the chairman of a financial committee, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, has done a very good job on the Committee, and I want to use this opportunity to thank him for it. The committee has been under intense pressure for the past few days, and this has been well controlled, I think it should be handled. But here you feel like, in fact, you're hiding a situation because it's serious. And although financial advice said we're going to be able to deal with this and it's sustainable, it's not a big deal. [[The president calls.]] I think that's what we're talking about. A senator agrees with me on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u36	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing it forward. This is very important, and I tried to introduce it in my speech, and we try to do so in the opinion of the greater part. There is ample doubt that the arrangement for uncertainty is not to be used just if we think of it. If that happens, and hopefully it doesn't happen, that the darker stage or the worse becomes a reality, we're not going to run into self-centered goals and can't respond to the main points of maintaining the public service level, our unemployment tailors, the so-called automatic fluctuations, and the counterweight actions. Only if a darker image becomes more real, the uncertainty bed can be used and the state's funds can be run with a greater angle. It is a key premise of the arrangement called an uncertain mood and is really just a response to what financial counsel has constantly pointed out, that we are not putting ourselves in a straitjacket to fail to meet the goals we set in a course. In time, we will have to organise it with regard to financial and financial matters. The translucency will be the key elements of that subject. I'll agree with it. A senator with that. I think we have a little work to do, and the authority has to take it to him. We came into it on page 6. 8 in our panel of committees has been appointed as a group to detect the economic effects of disease protection. However, we need a follow - up analysis of what measures they take and what they pass.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u37	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator's reputation for fine answers, and he may have nothing else to say but to add. A senator and chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, are fully aware of the importance that there is no looseness here in the federal affairs of uncertainty. This is a substantial amount of money, and it is therefore essential that only the projects related to the epidemic will be used. A senator made a good impression on that subject. Keep in mind that these are large amounts of money, and there is little to worry about. If the entire uncertainty gap has to be used because of the situation, the debt of state funds has reached 2,000 billion. That's a huge amount of money, and that's why it is very important, as we in the media have stressed, that a state of authority in the state of government. There are many things that can be added to the government we have spoken about, that can be arranged in a number of ways, and that can be used to support the companies in the country so that they can get a strong response to their job skills, and that they can improve the quality of what is available in these difficult times. We're looking at a huge unemployment rate, heading to 10%, and it's rising nationally. We all know that there is a serious thing that all of us must unite in working against, no matter where we stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u38	Mr. President. I'm going to start my speech by thanking you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, president of the budget board, for his work and the management of the Committee on this matter. I would also like to thank my colleagues of the Committee who have a minor opinion. I'm an emissary on the committee, so I can't return a special committee party, but I'm going to try to highlight a few points on the whole matter that I think is important to me. Economicism is being revised a second time. I'll start with a financial hearing that makes this a topic in their summary on page 13 in their opinion, as they put it, with the permission of a president: Similarly, there is concern that the current policy has reached its own limit of tolerability before the CAR epidemic is considered a means of growth. The same was true of the original policy that had to be taken up over a year ago. I think it's really unavoidable to mention this at the beginning because at least... We repeatedly warned that the government's financial policy at any given time did not build on a solid foundation, it was too optimistic. At that was not much of a listening. But then on the day, it would have been wise to listen to this warning and take it into account. There is no question that the need to examine financial policy is urgent. No one shares that, and that's who we are, I think, all agree. A financial body agrees that it has now been necessary to make radical changes, to disappear from traditional goals, and to stay more at the baseline of what financial policy should be built. The question, then, is the revision, and the greater part suggests whether it is practical and effective in this situation or whether its emphasis is correct. It is clear that uncertainty is considerable, but it is arranged on the main projections to the crisis - since we are now officially in a crisis, the crown crisis - if what is called the V-shaped, i.e. that it will be short and quick and take - well, what should I say, about 12 months from the start of it and until it returns to full power. Then we will see that the course we will take is practical. It is actually being revised to a very short period of time, for as we can see, it will be chosen here in a year and then it will be established a new financial policy, so it is of course very sensible to focus primarily on the coming year, which will be expected to be the greatest crisis of the year. Then we need to fill them with a dent, if we can put it that way, or this V that will happen, but at the same time we need to keep in mind that above a line, so to speak, unemployment, which is also increasing. It's grown very much and it's still going to grow. It reflects that very many people have very low livelihoods, very reduced income, and the urgent need for us to keep up - to - date with that group as soon as possible and to try to build up our professional life as possible. Since there must be a top priority, it is my opinion and ours that the programs that are introduced and fundamentally necessary to be more satisfying. To emphasize all the importance of looking at the years 2020,2021 rather than in the years 2022 and 2023. It is also so that the government fund has probably rarely or never had better opportunities to do so than now borrow very favorable interest, and it can be done for an extended period of time. It does not necessarily have to be a year or two; it can be done in longer periods of time, e.g. ten years old, using it to help people and businesses across this dive. We know that, and I think we all agree that unemployment is the worst problem we're dealing with in this context. We must also bear in mind that this crisis, this shock, this blow we are experiencing right now, affects people in our community. We can slyly say that the population may feel little or nothing about what is going on today. Then we may feel about 20% of the pain, but then we have a group who are the ones who have lost their job and who suffer a great deal. It is our duty to care for that group very well. We need to secure them and then make sure that they have long - term security. True, this direction is taking a step, and it should be welcomed and commended. But we need to go further. We have ideas about how to go even further, since this is very valuable to people, and may be said to be tripled: It's unemployment maintenance. It's temporarily raising the basics, because many people are fundamentally reformed. Most important, it is very important to increase the amount of time people have to earn in some way. Hence, there is a great deal of room for people. I think the holiday goal is now about 70,000 bucks, if I remember this correctly, and it's very important to raise it substantially, e.g. Triple it. That in itself is totally free of charge for the State, but it could be said to produce income. This is essential to ensure that we are not stuck with long - term problems. It is also of great importance that artificial investments are rushed so that as much of them as possible can get started this year and the next because it is not necessarily reasonable once the population is on its way and society is taking over that it comes in with increasing activity, with big projects that do not begin until it is well on its way and going to the job. This will not be the best time for an amazing investment in it. But that does not mean that we should work our own way. Of course, we are to prepare profitable investments, of course, and we should have them ready so that they can be addressed in economic situations so that it is wise to do so. A financial body calls attention to the fact that little is said about how to make investments, and I miss them, and I take my mind to that. When we face severe problems that we now face, and a considerable part of the nation sees into very severe winters and difficult losses ahead, we must do everything to soften it in all ways. By means of means of means of provision, which allows companies to recruit people, e.g. by relaxing insurance costs, by holding certain social events, the experience stays in the community, and at the same time prevents people from getting divorced with commitments. But it also needs to be for the future. It should be prepared for reinvestments so that they are ready when needed, and it is wise to attack them. The same is true of the future, that we need to focus even more on innovation and evolution. Once again, I want to make clear that there has been many good things done in that subject, but it has to be done better. In news news today, we said that we had fallen to one place on the list of countries that are doing well in innovation, and that's too bad. It tells us that such a list is never enough, since everyone else is counting on the future through innovation and evolution. There are different sources of people who have lost their jobs. It comes primarily from tourism, we all know it, and we see it. This is followed by a rift between geographic areas or regional shapes. So we need to act, and if we believe that the resistance becomes intense and that nothing is necessarily so far in sight that it is easier for us to accept back some of our people. It is obvious that it will always take some time to build up something new, and we need to try to make the adjustments so that tourism can receive their people and that the people are there when they need it. As regards innovation, interesting reports have been received from the recent development of the Technologies Fund. The application period was moved and the distribution was rushed. It provided considerable funds. It was also found that there had never been more candidates. You may have thought that it meant that the average quality of the applications had deteriorated, but it does not. There is a very high proportion of very good applications that have been received and would be very wise to try to apply these good applications or tasks that are behind them. Right there, people get something to do. After all, in the innovation, most of it is paid. We know that when it's successful, it's a big one. We have also been receiving many good news in recent days of Icelandic innovations, which have come to the fore for hundreds of millions and billions of dollars, so this is very important. Of course, all of this may change when we come together in the fall, and financial programs and financial laws will appear. However, if a technology fund keeps its own rhythm, applications will not be opened for again until nine months. That's a bit of a long time. This is what we need to deal with. That's why I think it's very important, and it's kind of our focus in acidification in this situation, that we put on a much greater weight and become much more determined in our actions, and that the government will be much more determined in their action to bridge this V-bil, which I mentioned, and reduce the cow that comes against the unemployment, because that's the most important thing to us. Thus, we will grow even stronger when we come out of this extraordinary dive. It is also very important for people and businesses to believe that governments believe that this depth, this crisis, will be short. We have no reason to believe that this will be the case. Hence, it is also important that, if not, we at the same time have the advantage that this will take longer. That's what we do. with increased funding, even more funding for innovation and development. We do this by being very diligent in preparing practical investments of various kinds, having them ready so that they can be handled immediately, and needed to help with the restoration of the economy that we all want to achieve, I believe. But it does not matter how it is done and how my criticism is done, and the restoration of it is primarily a factor in the lack of emphasis on focusing on people and businesses on how to get them across the gaps created by the so - called W in the recovery.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steindór Valdrim's Valdimarsson before the speech. I share a great deal of things in his case on the off-limit but a large matter that we address, which is a review of policy. Off-limits, I say, because we're reevaluating the proportions, the ratios and the uncertainty margin at that point. A senator came in. Thank you for the warm words to me. Hv. A senator himself said he was an officer of the hearing, but I can confirm that he is deeply involved in the work of the Committee. I was just going to direct a question to him because I know why. A senator is very aware of the matter. The restoration says that the course needs to be more elaborate. It is the primary objective of all of us, and financial advice is to deal with the rapidly growing unemployment. We need to think deeply about that. This suggests a considerable compromise on the treasure so that we can take the counterweight measures needed to deal with it and borrow it. We have a problem with the law as to making policy more difficult. When I say so, I mean, it's time for us to take a good look. We're drawing an arrangement, an uncertain curve, which occurred at the latest review and the drive. A senator came into it. The unsuspecting bed was to prevent us from being in a straitjacket of our own goals. At the same time, the scope of our policy cannot be too high. [[The president calls.]] How's it going, man? A senator contending with it when he speaks of increasing the range of uncertainty as soon as it is this year and the next?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, that's the thing with the uncertainty curve. Now I don't think I'm wrong about even... it should be noted in the review of the financial Council that under these circumstances, it is wise to have a very thin space of uncertainty. Similarly, it says that there should not be too much of it, so that it is not meaningless. So somewhere in there, we need to find a balance. Of course, all of us hope that there will be better luck than foretold, and in fact, some predictions are not in this regard in order for humans to be resolved quickly. But there is a great temptation, probably for anyone, to take to the uncertainty bed and say, "Hey, I'm doing this and this, and it's resting within the uncertainty gap. A financial adviser points out that even if the plans are successful, they should be reduced. It's not easy. I'm still holding on to the charge that we must be able to set it up so that it can be loaded again. If you cannot deal with such unexpected situations, you ask yourself, " Does this serve any purpose? ' If we feel that the best results are achieved by the loading process, and it is not possible or not to be achieved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Our conversation here only reflects that it is a balance art. We certainly want to get out of this crisis quickly. Then, too, because more of the Committee gives the real statistics, we expect the biggest angle in this year, and then it reduces into 2022. He is the greatest now and next year, and then he weakens because we are going to make a powerful fight. In this respect these revised ratios are set out to try to have room for rapid and intense effort on the project and to stick to the goal of maintaining public service levels, projects, and investments. That's what I'm talking about. A senator rightly stated that after three weeks we are going to discuss the subject. The uncertainty curve cannot be walked unless the darker scenarios really work out. This will work out how it appears on the income side and on the remuneration side in the overall demand. That's when I'm talking about my personal consumption, my investments, my sharing. And then, because we're talking about the tourism, the business equation, and the import is withdrawn. This is different. It may not be as bad because private consumption is better for the rest of the year because the spoils of Iceland abroad moved here. There are many of these things that we need to draw out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u42	Mr. President. Yes, it is true that this is not a simple matter. But, hey. One senator just mentioned that the private consumption in the country had caused a slight surprise or a little more than expected, including the possibility. because men have not made it abroad, etc. But I fear that it will reduce this private consumption, that it will reduce considerably for various reasons. Of course, people were optimistic about the fact that this would be even shorter and more rapid, that it would take several months. So people were willing to travel inside the country and spend the money that was supposed to take the trip abroad, in a platform, and reinvigorate homes, those who could do so. But I fear that this will be reduced very quickly, so it is important that we try as hard as possible to look out for people who are falling into a lot of provision because they have lost their jobs, that we keep their provisions as much as we can. That's what I say not only because personal consumption in society is needed but also because it makes security, gives more certainty. What happens to insecurity and uncertainty is that there will be social consequences to the future that may cost us dearly. [[The president calls.]] That's why I think it's extremely important to try to fill this up as much as possible and to hold people around and allow companies to be able to recruit people, and if they can't get jobs that they have the collective production. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u43	The president would like to ask the chamber members to lower their voice a little.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u44	A respectable president. I present the Commission's opinion of a proposal for a synonym of a change in the council resolution of No. 10/148 on fiscal policy for 2018/22022, from the 4th smaller section of the budget Committee, or Inga Sæland, a member of the Bags of the People on the Fundament Committee. The present world situation is unprecedented. Covid-19 has led to untold disaster and is still a long way off the battle against the virus causing disease. The economic consequences of the epidemic have led to the need to review current financial policies. Total recession of tourism and gross unemployment has already had a profound effect on both the income and the cost paid side of the state's budget. In addition, the government's specific actions far exceed those of previous financial policies. Sadly, at the beginning of the season, financial policies were not to be shaped as water. The fact is, she was smiling before coming out of the printer, as everyone knows. It worked rather as a government ads but as a practical plan for the survival of a government fund. With it, a government fund was so tight that it almost immediately needed a revision. This review was made necessary without any financial prognostication being so significantly changed that it would normally give a reason for such. Following that review, increasing the uncertainty shift of policy to give state funds the opportunity to cope with unexpected setbacks. However, there was no idea that this would help to cope with the greatest economic depression in the country from the beginning. A reevaluation of policy was necessary. The predictions of a revised policy take into account a black picture of the situation. The living room predicts 8.2% of the current year's contractions and 8.1% of unemployment. This year's predictors are expected to be less narrow, but less economic growth is expected at the next one. Clearly, then, the nation's economic breakdown is enormous. It is hoped, though, that we can work back in a short period of time, but the crisis will likely not be as short as it was in the early stages of an epidemic. There are many things that are considered in a revised policy. Using the so - called darker picture of its design reduces the risk of reevaluating the course of failure. In order for financial policy to cover the darker stage, the uncertainty range is greatly improved, from 0.8% to 2% in 2020 and 3% in 2021 and 2022. It is good to see that the government intends to respond by increasing the debt of state funds rather than cutting down public service. Naturally, financial policy is expected to increase the financial debt of the state to up to 850 million. K. During a three - year period, it must be considered a worse option than a more systematic cut - down or a larger tax system. Then there is the positive result of an increase in government projects in a revised policy. In times of recession, it is necessary for the public to engage in commercial operations that can at the same time bring long - term benefits to society, such as increased internal investments. It would have been more important to explain how to react if the contraction becomes smaller than expected. In view of the time leading up to the election, there is a danger that there will be a temptation with the divorced government to destroy beyond the need to increase its popularity. A financial committee points out that there is a greater risk that financial control will be less devastating. These indications can be taken into consideration. In recent years the development of financial policy has shown herself to say, as little as possible in policy itself, that it does not overcompensit the government. It can undermine stability in financial management if it has only the value of molding external boundaries for a trust fund. The policy is also to be taken in case the government's financial situation is greatly improved. Then the need to reevaluate financial policies is so great that soon after the introduction of a new set of laws on public finances that it should be avoided to make such an example for future governments. It is noteworthy that there is no prior policies to the state of state that face extreme pressures in Covid-19 times and protect the well - being of the citizens. In current financial policy, 0.5% of health institutions, aging institutions, and schools are expected to be between 2020 and 22022. It is obvious that the development of these institutions has increased dramatically, and projects have become more complex because of the epidemic's impact. In times like this, it is not right to follow a minimum of tens of millions of dollars. Government plans for up to 57.7 billion dollars. the duration of financial programmes is based on smiles and must be revised in the light of circumstances, as well as on other factors. In spite of this, a report by revised financial policy is called upon not to compromise the specific requirements for maintenance. On the contrary, it is announced that during the latter part of the time of the next financial programme, there is a need to increase the level of government funds. Despite the many and extensive operations of the government, tens of thousands of people in the community who are minority members are under little or no additional assistance in this formidable situation. These groups have been unsettled by a garden for many years, and shamelessly, the government intends to maintain that shame. Groups such as poorer, older citizens, and unemployed, await the hopeless action they should do for their own good that they should never have. Long ago, social security workers with no forwards other than insurance agencies have the power to listen to empty words of correction and improvement. Hence, large groups of people in the community lived under a very low standard of care before facing an even less devoid of survival due to the effects of a pandemic. The basic life insurance and unemployment benefits are not good enough for a living. Already, thousands of people have been trapped in a poverty trap, and there is a danger that too will be established by those who lose their jobs for a long time. In a revised financial policy, it is noted that one of the main objections to public financial management in the economy is that the extent of the transfer systems has not been reduced. If there is a reason for this, it should only be positive to increase the basic progress of those who depend on the transfer systems. Nevertheless, it is announced in a report by revised financial policy that the system should be preserved in the current picture. When we refuse to extend help to those in need, their suffering is actually being further added. Success is measured not only in economys, pennies, and crowns but in whole life. From now on, I want to reiterate that the situation is unbearable to a large group of people. We have nearly 10,000 children in poverty. We have very poor people, disabilityrs, and older citizens. We are seeing an increase in attendance at a relief organization of 40 constituted 2000%. We have artists who have no income and have not had a month. We've got students who've paid off their pay on unemployment insurance, but they don't get unemployment money. At the same time, Norwegians are selling access to salmon for tens of billions of dollars. If we were to do the same, we would be getting 30 to 40 billion into our system that could be used to improve the situation of these groups. No, it's not done. And we know what happened to the bank tax. At the same time that all of this is going on, we're going to accept 15 billion loans to Icellands. But nothing is being done for those who need it most, for older citizens, for poorer ones, and for those who have social benefits. The supply of the medical system is prolonged. It sucks to think there's a large group out there who can't help but wait, not for a month, not for a year, but three or five years. However, those who had at least the possibility of going abroad during surgery cannot do so in this condition. That's good for it. On the other hand, those who can afford to buy the ministry. It sucks to know that we have such a system that those who can afford it, but those who cannot afford it, must be on a waiting list. Nurse homes are very expensive. One group of other members is canceling contracts with nursing homes. Where is it on course? I hope that the elderly are living in a state of carelessness for the rest of their lives. Imagine, for the next three years, some 850 billion people are even spoken of as a trust fund. How much of it is the earmarked health system, or to eliminate poverty and insignificance, waiting lists, perhaps just waiting for a child to serve? Sadly, that is not the priority. The state has spread. In this situation, we are under obligation to roll with every stone to find some money that is used in unnecessary use. We are under obligation to try to find money wherever they may be to make sure that the hard ones do not have to tighten their belts. It's a little strange that we should, for example. no big contributions to the film industry have been taken at the fingertips. There are tremendous opportunities, vast sums of money, and there is no shortage, as we know today. There's a wonderful opportunity to intervene. How does that affect us? It affects our entire art life because we have a large group of artists who cannot support themselves, earn no income, and not even earn unemployment. It's annoying. How could we build our system like this, and how on earth are we going to let it continue? Then there's one thing we're supposed to be looking for, and it's becoming self-sustaining with vegetable production, that large amounts of greenhouse production, as we see happening in a smokeholt in the Southland. It is being built. What a magnificent greenhouse construction is being constructed by real - minded people! We are to build and encourage such things. It tells itself that if we become self-sustained with vegetables, we're doing a great job. Surely, it has to say to itself that with our electricity and clean water, we can do so just as the Netherlands has soared its vegetables all over the world. Therefore, I say that economicism is not hostile to those most in need of it. However, I hope it will be when the budget itself comes, that by that time these groups will be given theirs, that they will not have to tighten their water supply, but if they get their compensation, the inflation that has increased, and the success that has resulted in the increase in food prices. And that they too get more because a large group has to be sent out for food, and that costs it. It's more expensive. A large group needs to buy masks and alcohol, but they can't afford it. We're going to make sure of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson, who had a fine review of the committee's opinion of four minor items. paritaprevir Sæland Heland, a financial agent, has put together. The groundwork is based on a number of factors. A senator entered his talk. I just want to be rights, instead of asking you a question. The senator, that what we are doing is borrowing in order to live up to the policy of not reducing public service and maintaining ourselves in the activities and counterweed activities. During this crisis, as a result of a major damage to our jobs and homes, we need to take special measures to reduce the damage. Well, that's what we've been doing, and we've been cleaning up here on budget-fixing primes. I'm not going to retrace it here, but why. A senator introduced part of it, the payment of unemployment benefits, the decrease in proportion and social resources that I don't have time to go over here. This is so as to soften the damage that homes and employment are facing. That's why we're reevaluating policy. I just want to make it right. Of course, the automotive equations that humans have been talking about are the transfer systems, all the social systems that are claimed here to protect us. That's key. Then, when we discuss financial and financial programs, let's discuss the routes and the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson's words and, in many respects, accept them. But if we look at this realistic, this 850 billion, 1% of them is 8.5 billion, what could we do with 1%? Yes, we could shorten the waiting list or at least use the money to negotiate with national partners to do something in the number of waitings for Covid, e.g. waiting about 400 people for orthopaedic surgery. We can also use them to make sure that relief agencies can help those in need. We can also use the money to help this group. It's not huge, but there's still a group of poor and very poor people. This is such a small part of this total package, the enormous amount of money we have, that I think it is totally justified that we would give only 1% of it. It would help as soon as it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u47	Mr. President. It's a sad financial policy. It is sad because it reflects the sad state of the economy. Here we experience historic unemployment, the collapse of the largest industry in the country, and the incredible pressures of key institutions. This trend is also bleak, as it shows that in its previous requirements the same institutions that are in the front. Schools, hospitals, health care, innovations, and cultural institutions are to be maintained. It is also said in this policy that the welfare system should be replaced only by reductions. It may be nice for the government members to know what is in their own policy. This is a cold ass in the face of those groups who have to rely on public service. This too is a disaster for the public institutions that have been watched for us in these historic times, Mr. President. In addition, this is a sad course because there is little hope and structure for the future. [[The president calls.]] This is where we need to go on the offensive. Here you need to rebuild your well - being, here you have to do your job and make your work. [[The president calls.]] But we're short on this course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u48	V.E.G. President. It is wise to review financial policies, as we do here, and no one shares the basis for it and its necessity. The most important thing, as we are doing here, is to lay the groundwork for fulfilling the goal of limiting damage to homes and businesses and giving strong resistance. To do so, we need to run a government fund with a payoff and a loan. It is not only necessary but also reasonable in these situations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u49	Mr. President. We are not able to support these changes in financial policy. We think it's too small and too late, we don't have enough rope to deal with the crisis we're dealing with right now. The homes and businesses in the country are not quickly and handsome enough to meet them. That is why we cannot support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u50	Mr. President. The revised financial policy is oscillating and generally expressed. In two years, the Hall of a Kingdom Fund is said to be 500 billion when it is 1,200 billion during the period of policy. If there's a new space of uncertainty, it's at least 2,100 billion dollars. There's no mention of this in the majority opinion. It's actually hiding the state's position. The policy lacks a clearer presentation on the effects of high unemployment on income and financial expenses. The details are missing for each baseline value. In this situation, the prerogative of government management is important. The goal of making money in public investments must be clear. Uncertain instruments should not be used in unsurpassed investments or in order to increase expenses without need. The middle class highlights a vision of the future in which policy aims to guide the response of governments and the Generals during difficult times and necessary measures to turn back. In this regard the government has failed. The middle party doesn't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u51	A respectable president. This financial policy is designed to make certain groups of elderly and desperate individuals still armed for survival. The health system is not involved in this policy. Is it to make sure that those who are on the list can expect their issues to be resolved? No, waiting lists will be extended, unfortunately. It's a policy of carelessness, a course that only goes one way; that the worst will make it worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u52	A respectable president. In spring, there was tremendous uncertainty. Then the government decided to postpone the donation of new financial policies and financial programs, to preserve the uncertainty, for it is the government's job to establish a solid land to eliminate uncertainty. About six months later or so when financialism finally comes, I'll be a little disappointed. In fact, the only part of a course that can be identified is the policy that is always to be taken in an economic downturn, to ensure that people's rights are maintained, and the public service is properly fired. That's it. Did it take six months to establish this policy? Really? Another factor in this course is empty words that are not behind. We see a lot of unemployment coming next year, based on national forecasts, not on the impact of policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u53	A respectable president. This financial policy is the theme that an Icelandic community needs for the next two years. The government fund is being allowed to go into a sliding business in the coming years to lighten the burden of households and businesses and this is done without cutting down on the important community support and welfare systems. Mr. President. It's a good course, and it's to protect the interests of the public in the country and make us as strong as possible from this downturn.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u54	A respectable president. It seems that a new five - year - old course is being discussed. We're still talking about the same policy. We are developing a framework for the next year's financial agenda and setting the basis for next year's budget. We are not completing a discussion about next year's budget or financial plans, as may be expected from the discussion because it contains examples of points that are not at all presented in this Senate document to support support the lack of support for the Senate resolution. It's one thing that people don't agree with the suggestion of this council resolution, but I don't hear any suggestions to go anywhere else. Here it is suggested that the government's budget be used to handle a handsome situation, a serious situation that has come up. [[The president calls.]] That's the right way. What's the alternative?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u55	A respectable president. The primary objective of this revised financial policy is to protect and strengthen the existing status of society, protect the families and households budget, and thus support the failure of the manufacturing equipment through this sudden crisis, and that we can have a strong response in the years ahead. That's the part of this review, and I'm proud to say yes to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u56	A respectable president. This is where we pay votes for share loans. The idea has been derived from Scotland and has given great pleasure to it. Here are two technical modifications. First of all, there is a slight change, not a material one, which is about not looking for reviews from the Secret Bank of Iceland for financial status committee. Second, it is that a minister is authorized in a Regulation to state that candidates with accepted oers have the priority of sharing loans. It's to pay for their loans, and it helps to facilitate and simplify the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u57	A respectable president. A key step is to ensure the security of thousands of families in the years to come. The matter is the product of the work force's cooperation between the government and the labour market parties and the importance of success. The changes that have been successfully treated by the council are for the benefit, and I would especially like to mention those that are moving toward the country. It must be one of the anchors of a welfare society that wants to be taken seriously, ending basic needs. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir can be proud of this step and can be pleased that there is a broad support in the case at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-137.u58	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. the welfare committee for the implementation of this case. How happy we are that we take this step here to help young and rich people, as well as those who lost their possessions in the crash, to get their own housing! The majority of rent markets today are in the lowest income-tenth of the community and up to 90% of those in the rented market want to get their own housing. Here we take an enormously important step in helping that group to obtain their own housing. This is an important recognition that everyone has the right to have their own roof over their heads, not just those of the highest income level in Icelandic society. Congratulations on this. I'm proud of this case, and I congratulate all of us on it.
