ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u1	A respectable president. We're here at 2nd. to discuss the birth holiday bill for a social security committee who has been working on it and would like to thank the members of the Committee for the work that has taken place there and that discussion. We've had numerous visitors, many reviews, and many opinions have been agreed on, and this is a conclusion. I'm especially happy, and we can be sincerely happy that the 12 - month term of birth is now reaching the year - to - year bond between parents and the rights of each parent is divided into a separate right of six months, but whether a parent can deliver six weeks of his or her own rights to the other parent. At the original bill, only a month is expected, but it adds two weeks to the very right to hand over. It's a fact that it's been a bit of a strain to get this landing, but it's quite acceptable, so I could sign it. I believe it is important that, in the adjustment of the majority of parts, there is a revised law and that within two years of the implementation of these laws, we look forward to how it has been successful to meet the law to settle right parents in the labour market. It's also so important that we get them equalities. That's why it's good to have this revised law in order to do so because it's as if we don't want to believe how important it is now. Freedom is wonderful, I do what I want, it's said, and I'm completely convinced and I'm just gonna trust people of childbearing age to divide these six weeks so that the exchange will be equal in this regard. One year in a child's life is important, and the first year is the most important. Thus, reaching that goal is a big step for children and parents. The primary goal is to eliminate earlier attitudes, that the father has the primary responsibility for the economy of his home by means of his income. The results of an investigation into the Icelandic birthworm system indicate that the U.S. to ensure that the father's coven so called, or the birthworm rights which only fathers can use, is the right course to achieve the goals of the law on birth and parentoroft to ensure the right of children to coexist with both parents, allowing parents to coordinate family and professional life. That is why I face a big surprise change in motion from the Central Party. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir moved. It was chairman of the government's action team and of the labour market's parties on the remuneration of the sex - age conditions that produced reports and fine work. These include the right of men or fathers or of the other parent to parents or maternolfs and birth code. Something has happened in those years. But I would also like to lift up here and talk about something that may have just been presented in the case of an authority speaker, i.e. Special strength due to reduced bioavailability to delivery services. That's very important to me. These are increased rights for women in the country. 43rd. it says that if a pregnant parent is needed, according to the specialist's opinion, to stay away from home because of the necessary services due to the baby's birth, it is permitted to give the parents special strength for up to 14 days before the expected date of the birth, since the parent stays away from his or her home during those days. Here we are making the difference to 14 days before the expected date of our birth. As we all know, birth can be a bit mobile. The mother is usually at birth for two days before the expected date of birth, and then the birth may be prolonged for up to two weeks. Then, after the scheduled date of her birth, the mother has left her maternity room. We are going to make a change so that the day will be according to the expected date of birth. There is only a very small amount of food available in the land. The fact is that there are significant distances in essential delivery services, e.g. ... southoftheWestland. Therefore, it is not wise for a woman to wait until the last moment to get to a place of birth, especially in winter. Yes, it is not just María the mey who had to go between communities to give birth. And not only women who are far from the help of births, for if they are at risk, they must move closer to safer birth services. This could therefore apply to women in most parts of the country, a pregnant parent who spends close to birth service from week 38 of pregnancy. In such circumstances, the person may be assigned to start his home sooner if there are conditions that require, e.g. Precautionary pregnancy. It is not unusual for pregnancy to last up to 42 weeks, as mentioned earlier, and is therefore authorized here to give special strength to pregnant parents because of the days of pregnancy over the anticipated date of birth, in addition to the 14 days mentioned. Then, the majority suggest that a special allowance must be allowed up to 28 days prior to the anticipated date of a birth date is a term of multiple pregnancies with a twin age of 36 weeks in Iceland and is generally targeted for birth at some 36,◯38. week if pregnancy is successful. This is a matter of justice that has long been on the program and that has not come to an end. There have been reports of women who had to stay away from home. I remember that two, three years ago, it was west on Iceaf, two twin sisters, and they put them on, I think, just before Christmas. Then, naturally, they had to spend a few days after birth here in the city. This means that women stay away from their families for this time. A respectable president. So now I come back to the primary goal of the bill is to guarantee a child to be separated from his parents for 12 months, and all agree on that, so to balance the right of parents to take on maternity leaves. It is easy for us to visualize the delightful moments of family life and children in which they absorb the fragrance of the infant and strengthen the bond of emotion that survives. We want the best for our children. Children of both sexes and specifications should have the same rights in this society as in the labour market. We are also thinking about the future of the child who is coming into the world. How will we mold them for rights when they reach adulthood, reach a job market, and start giving birth to children? We're thinking ahead of ourselves, not just to today, but to the time when women and men had no maternity. The birth court is an important part of the workforce equalizing. As long as we don't achieve equal exchanges, we don't get paid equals between the sexes. Let us also talk about equality in pensions, where equality for maternity is a major factor. When battle for maternity began, these factors were guided. A respectable president. It's a big stage and a big equal thing to do. In the joint review of my life. A professor of social advice and professor of sociology at Iceland's University for the bill comes in, among other things. ... tothe prolongation of the rights of parents to birthworm, as expected in the bill, is a turning point for better families and for the benefit of children and parents alike. With the equal exchange of maternity, we reached a step closer to equal sex in the labour market, both in terms of pay and pension rights. We have nothing to give in this struggle, it goes on. We're always right now, even though it's the opposite of the six weeks. After two years, we can go over the situation, how it's come out. I am convinced that this is becoming more norm, as has happened for the past 20 years since the father's worm. Fathers are more involved in both training their children and household chores. That's how we get our objective, this tickles in, maybe not all of a sudden, but we're seeing a tremendous change. I don't think it's long since I was having my kids, but this change that's been tickling in with the father's serpent is huge and that's incredibly important. But I can also say that in a perfect world, I would quite like to see twelve, zero. I don't know if I can claim that I'm going to see it, but until then, let's get right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u2	Mr. President. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir The head of Halla's Kristjánsdóttir to the head of a welfare committee decided not to secure the right of children and parents when the other parent is facing a parent's restraining order. This is stated in a committee study of more parts, by permission of the president: It is noted that the restraining order does not lead to the transfer of rights to maternity. Rather, it is essential that the restraining order make the parent the ban impossible to use the rights it has to take place within 24 months of the birth of a child. Then here also says: Therefore, it is estimated that unless a restraining order is in force in the last six months of that period, the parent who is under ban is entitled to have the right delivery order for the six months, i.e., this is not possible. after the time of the birth of the child... I want to ask you why. A senator's actions on this, how she sees that a parent who has been subjected to extreme violence, possibly repeated, and threats, so that the prosecution and the court have agreed to a request for a restraining order that is a very burdensome procedure, should ensure her child's right to hysteria and ensure some compatibility in the association and care of the child in the early child. How does the senator feel about protecting this little child and the parent who has been subjected to gross violence?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u3	A respectable president. I'm not going to be an expert on these matters, but in the greater part of it, we have contacted lawyers, both in the committee field, in the Ministry and in others, and we think we have this approach sort of going to the same place as that. A senator wants to handle that. I understand the results don't care. I'm not going to become an expert and get into a conflict with it, but this is what I understand, that the change we have to give the same conclusion, although the wording may be different, that if a parent is made a sweet restraining order toward a child or to the other parent, the child is protected. If the mother is violent, let's say, and has the child at the end of the six months, she can apply for continued custody of the child. It is possible to bring the right to the courts to confirm that the violent parent will be the subject of approach to the child. At least this is the conclusion I believe had. I won't be an expert on this case, but the experts I'm listening to think that this is the same as before. A senator is talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have full respect for the fact that we can't all be experts in all matters, but I can assure you that the same is not being done at all with the suggestion of a greater part in this matter and with the suggestion I make to the council that gives the violent parent so much violence that a restraining order is given, just to take the six months' timelessly. The suggestion from the greater part is that the parent who has been violent during the first six months will empty out and then have to wait until 18 months to see if there is an effective restraining order placed on the other parent to have a chance of attending this right. It should be noted, then, that the protection given to the head of the welfare committee is considered to be just for the parents who have children when they are married or in registered living together through a child's custody, so the protection that the greater part feels they have to protect that parent and that child and to give them the 12-month birth relic that we celebrate here all of these people do not have, the protection is not there for half the more part. A child's right to domestic violence and a parent who enjoys extreme violence is severely impaired, a restraining order for 12 months to be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u5	A respectable president. I'm just going to read the adjustment we're suggesting and the interpretation that we've received. 3 mg Count 9. will be like this if the adjustment proposal of the majority of the segment will be accepted: ▪ If a parent is made a restraining order to his child, to the other parent and/or separation from home, and is unable to take care of his child during the 24 months following the birth of the child, the right will move toward the birthworm that has been formed. 1.mg. Section 8. and a parent has not already made use of himself to the other parent. The same is true when a parent is unable to care for his child for the same reason during the first 24 months after a child enters a home on the first stage or takes into a permanent fetus. This is true whether parents share in their child's custody or not. The police officer or court shall confirm that the parent will submit a restraining order to his child, to the other parent and/or separation from home during the above mentioned period. At the transfer, the right of the parent who has a restraining order and/or a home evasion to the rights that the other parent has earned according to these laws. This is the opinion of the lawyers we've come to, and then we're reaching the same conclusion, I think I am, for in a change of motion. A senator - I can't go over it, but it should be in harmony with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u6	Mr. President. There's probably one of the best songs in Iceland, not because they're tiptops and perfect. Obviously, they are not. After their last 20 years, we need to reevaluate them as a whole today. No, these are some of the best laws we have because of what they do. They enable families to be better families, allow parents to be better parents, and make society better. That's why it must be Iceland's record for losers to find that more than a part of the welfare committee goes on the second year in a row to put this case in the hall. We stood on this exact spot one day before the end of Christmas, this very same place where the more part had everything down, where we were also trying to prolong the birthmark and make sure that the same exchange between parents. One would have hoped that the more part would be more experienced after the fuck-up a year ago and would be well prepared for a game and produced a good job, and on time. But no, there was a conflict between the members of the board here, saying one representative of the greater part, there was a conflict between the members of the administration which is why we are here the day for Christmas holiday talking for the first time the motions of a greater part of the welfare committee. And again, just as last year, the majority do not trust to hold the conclusions of a minister, a conclusion that is not obtained something into the air. No, it's a minister's conclusion based on professional work. We should not always get used to getting bills that are as successful as this bill, based on as much work, as much consultation as any expert figure. I'm going to go over some of the highlights of history, just so that someone might mention them. This has been called to mind that it was 20 years ago that fathers were given their own right to birthworm. It was an overwhelming big, good step. It was imperative that Icelandic fathers begin to take three months of their own birthmarks. Mothers were able to take three months for themselves, and there were three changes. They've always gone to mothers because we live in a society where the sex system shapes us so that mothers should spend more time with their children and my fathers. That's just how it's gonna be. These great laws are part of changing a society that has been raised for centuries by men and women in specific sex roles, which has brought up a certain sex system. That is why these laws must be used when it comes to equality. Thus they build a better society for the children and their children. But okay. In the year 2000, fathers received their own free orlof, and as soon as they began to talk about extending the birthworm. This is no new discussion. That step was taken in 2012 when the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir proposed a bill for extending the birthworm for 12 months, with the distinction between the four months apart and four months apart. So, what happens in here at the council? Then the subject is handled carefully, talked to the experts, and listened to them. Imagine they're listening to the experts. Listen to this, health committees: They listened to the experts. And after listening to the experts, a greater proportion of welfare committees, if not just all the committees, came to the conclusion that the exchange had to be narrower, that the right of independence had to be greater for each parent. The committee suggested that five months go to each parent, and two months were involved. Thus children may be better able to stay together with both parents and to promote greater equality. This is the division that has proved to be the best. This was approved by the end of 2012. Then there's bad news that Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson will be the greatest. The prime minister and his first work are virtually avoiding the prolongation of birthworm. Yet, that government was under attack to keep the project going. That's the highest. Department of Social Affairs, Harðardóttir Hardardddóttir, ordered a panel of future policy conferences, and the Committee won a 2016 report. The result? The conclusion was that the birthworm would be extended in stages from nine months to 12 months, and the proposal for division was five months between parent and two, while it was also suggested that the right be equal. In effect, it was said that we had even less share because we thus ensured a stronger family and a better community. That government did not last long to implement these proposals, but in the government covenant of the present government, the extension of the birth serpent is required. So it happened last March, 2019, that Einar Daðason, the highest. Secretary of Social Affairs, announced that he would agree to suggest a two-step extension, first to ten months, and then up to 12 months, and that, at the same time, the total review of the law would be carried out. Another committee was then appointed because this case is not built up. It is based on the research and access of specialists and consultations. The committee based on the work of the former committee and met with various experts. By the end of 2019, just over a year ago, a bill appeared that developed this two - step extension for the first four months for the parent and two - change, followed by five months for either parent and two - parent conversion. But then the problem was due to the fact that when the council arrived, there was a problem. Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir called it, tension between the board of directors on welfare committees, tensions. It ended with the fact that I believe Iceland's record of insanity during the last days of Christmas, where every adjustment made in a different way that all said that the exchange should be severed so that it would be too much to function as an equal device. In the end, this was referred to as a means of reconciliation, some preliminary development, but a minister would bring a final change to the council this fall. That's the bill we're talking about today. This year, it came in the words of consultation and only made changes to the council because what was presented in the discussion, such as the Council, was heard. the right of single parents and the time that could be taken over. The minister originally suggested that the frame be pressed down to 18 months, but he listened and extended it to 24 months. This brief review shows that there is a search for a prime network that has been equally carefully processed in Icelandic management. That is why it is so strange that the majority of the welfare committees are once more involved in the case. The bill, as a minister suggests, divide the months, as a minister suggests, is based, not on opinions or feelings, but on extensive consultations among employees of pay, employment, government, and studies of the leading experts in the affairs of children and family and equality and other specialities. If we want public policy to base on the best data and research, we want the bills to be carried out at the highest level. The social and child - care minister won this bill, we want the welfare committee to listen to the experts involved, the experts responsible for the interests of the whole and the children. It was just a matter of time ago. During a discussion of the matter, I have found that there are a number of suspicions in various ways toward the people involved in this work. I agree that the word workforce is not necessarily the most beautiful thing in the Icelandic language, but it produces birthworm. A birth serpent, like so many public rights in Iceland, comes from a working person's struggle for greater rights. Workforce may not be the most beautiful word, but we have examples of the various forms of employment that we cannot imagine being without, such as. sick rights or illness due to children, holiday, re-employment, birthworm. This is all something that comes out of the labor movement's struggle, which, of course, is actually a conflict of interest, but that is pursuing a conflict of interest for the entire public. This battle is directed against the other partners of the labour market, and is often just called negotiations, and they agree with the labor movement that the switch of the month into the maternity market is best carried out by a minister, as a majority of the welfare committee decides to compromise on some feeling. It is often so that when we enter the Parliament's agreements based on the workforce's agreement, the Council can be least moved by it. That's how I remember, for example. that was when we were discussing the short work week on a welfare committee two years ago. The law was then proposed to change the workweek of about 40 hours in order to achieve the shortness of the week at which the labor movement is walking. But as far as I can remember, agents in the same major part of the bill said at that point: "No, we can't change these laws in this way and tell the labour market how to behave, but we can change them when it's clear they've come to a place where they've come to be in the process of shortening the workweek. But then, suddenly, when it comes to the birth canal, it's a problem, you can manipulate a contract between the labour market partners. I'd only like to grab here one or two sentences in the Committee's Committee of Health, with the permission of the President: ▪ Then it was noted that, according to studies, the father's carers have many positive effects on long - term life of children, including children. children's behavior, mental well - being, and social status as behavioural problems in boys decrease and the confidence in girls increase. - Great consequences of a great birth Orc system. It continues, with the permission of the president: ▪ In the opinion of the greater part, the right to take birthalorfs and the equal exchange between parents is best used to achieve the law's objective [...] and will also be used as a powerful labour market strategy that will help improve the sex status of the labour market, equal remuneration, and have a positive influence on the development of social equality. The result of a wonderful birth Orc system. And how do we guarantee this best? I would've thought we'd do it with a clear legal frame. No, the greater part holds the hope that parents will use their own six months'right to birthworm, even though no numbers support it and all research will show the opposite. All studies show that the poor division that most of the health committees suggest will simply lead to mothers generally taking seven and a half months, while fathers will take four and a half. There's two thirds. The greater part holds hope that this will deliver the objectives of the law, guarantee that this uncontaminated approach will not affect the spirituality and social status of children, sex status in the labour market, or development in the pursuit of equality. Is that how we set up laws on society development? Is that how we direct the most powerful system of equality in society, just for hope and hope, when we know what the numbers tell us? No, I remember what I had. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke in this hall less than a month ago when it was recommended. I'm just gonna paraphrase it, I'm not gonna take it straight, but what? A senator urged us not to put us on the high level of equality status in Iceland that it was just so good that we didn't have to worry about it, that we could relax. Because soon, without any doubt, there can be a rapid relapse in equality if we do not guarantee equality with clear legal requirements. Now we've got a what? paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon has more Congress experience than the one standing here, but I agree so warmly with this. As long as there's no total equality in this country, it's a mistake to take a step backwards from the equal devices the Minister suggested here, then it's a mistake to just hope that it's going to turn out all right. It is not the way this assembly should handle the most precious tool families have and the most powerful thing this community has in behalf of equality. This does not mean that hope is enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u7	A respectable president. We are here discussing yet another important step in equality, birthworm, prolongation of birth norms. It has a long history, a long journey. It was first legalized around 1980 for a period of six months in 1986. In 1998, the voluntary right of married fathers to take birthworm came and, fortunately, the rights of fathers have increased. The law in the year 2000 changed the situation in this legislation, and with the arrival of a father's ork exodus, it was initially a serious matter to be guided by gender equality and the right of a father and child to a social gathering so as to make it easier for parents to work together as family responsibilities. In recent years, we have achieved amazing success in these matters, and as an independent man, I can look with pride over my going and my participation in those matters. So in view of listening here, it was really kind of lame. A member of Parliament and the Chairman of the Archipelago, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, makelittle the involvement of the Independence Party in equality over the years. The International Economic Council is published a report published last in December 2019 and then the 14th. The report has been published in English for the name 'Global Gonder gat report.' It assesses the performance of 153 countries in the fields of gender equality in four main areas; politics, education, employment, and health. Iceland is once in the lead among the nations, top priority at 87.7 points. The next countries that follow us are Norway, Finland, and Sweden. In other words, according to the assessment of these international organizations in 153 countries, the flag carrier of the United States is a national flag. It is the success that we have achieved in equality on a very broad scale. Of course, the claim that the Independence Party has no part in this, as active as it has been in the government of the country in recent years is nothing more than a mischievous from where it should least come from. A senator who spent 14 years at a council for this category, stood in trust, and was entrusted with the highest esteem. I think this is an occasion for going over. Here is another vital step on a journey that in itself will never end. This step will mark another milestone, be another monument on this long journey that has lasted in the past few years and will continue. Here are some further toying steps, and I think we can all agree that this might be desirable. This may all depend on circumstances as well. We would want to do so much better in many cases than we are taking important steps. The steps we need to take in the coming years are such as the payment mark, i.e. The roof on the payment, it's gonna have to go up. When it was higher for some time, it led to more participation in maternity vacations, so it must be something we need to examine. This bill expects a review within a relatively short period of time to assess the effects and updrafts and try to improve the effectiveness. We also need to consider reducing the birth rate in our country. We must look for ways that the system can encourage children. The fact is that we have to look for that to happen, as some have called it, some of the three children of a model, will cause the growth to be normal. In my opinion, a respectable president, freedom is the key to improving equality. Parents are to have this freedom, and in my opinion a certain premeditativeism is evident in the procedure where we have to oblige people to set matters in a certain way, including in some cases, to reduce the ability of families to make full use of the time laid down in this bill, since it is so from the public and full of professionals that it has provided indications and criticism of this bill and suggest that this freedom should be in place. A recent poll conducted for Mental Health shows that two - thirds of the couples choose to have more freedom, two thirds, this is overwhelming. We have the same comments from the surgeon general, the Girl's Department of Light, so even though experts are being quoted, like a boy. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson went over here, and he's in his own fine input, of course, we're supposed to listen to specialists, but not all that comes from that point, and no one in itself contradicts or objects that there are experts on the table of the governor, the State of State of State, and the childhood, to name something. But the experts can also discern, and we can weigh them. In the end, the parents themselves who are the best experts in their own affairs can best determine for themselves what is acceptable for each case, although I completely agree with it, as I entered the past, that we need to consider seriously that there's a motivation for fathers to take advantage of their rights to birthworm. This is only a factor in the child's right to be fully used by his parents during these 12 months. There have been some people who have been preoccupied with the fact that there is a disagreement among the majority of the councils on the process. Yes, you can say that. Nothing has been hidden. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason has held on to the opinions of many of us independents the opinion that we believe in this, i.e. increased parental freedom to decide for themselves how to divide these rights within the family. So it is not surprising to anyone in itself. Our objective, however, is the same. We all have the same objective in this matter, and most important of all. Most important, we should be extending our birthmark to 12 months. That's the step. There is a success where we can all be united. And once again, the Independence Party is proud to be an active member of that balance work, one of the biggest steps that have probably taken on equality. I think that it can be said that of all the issues involved that equality is the norm what is involved in it. So we need to let the council in effect make up the outcome in this, month or month. We've talked about certain compromises in our order of reason. paritaprevir Will Árnason has served. There is a compromise that came to the committee. Of course, the work here is frequent media, and then we take it for granted. It remains that the birthworm will be 12 months. That's the main thing. We need to keep on the watch, a respected president, in this category of languages in order to continue to be flagrants among the nations in equal rights. You can say the bottom line with the rest of it. A senator mentioned earlier that some steps can lead to our going backwards. We do not want that. To that end, we need to be on our toes. I believe the revision principle contained in this law is an important stone in this path, of course. Finally, in my brief review, I plan to quote only a talk. paritaprevir So when Gunnlaugsdóttir the Sigríður, who spoke earlier and struck some other tone with this against my company, I took it that way, when she considered what was in charge of our leadership among the nations in equal rights and that would be a progressive legal arrangement. We would have created a society where equality is rich and the legislaturer could in time pave this group for himself. The lawgiver can pacify himself, and I think we can do this tomorrow when we've agreed. I think we can give a round of applause for the council and then continue on the road.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u8	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a big, important case, birth and parentorof. It has been very enjoyable and enjoyable to discuss this matter and to cooperate with it on the welfare committee and in the Senate, actually, from a year ago when this journey began to extend the birthworm to 12 months, all of which agree that there is much progress. There are many other steps to take in this matter and a great improvement. It has been a joy to handle increasing the rights of those who live farther from birth and deal with issues about parental parenthood. But the discussion is the most concerning the change, how to divide the months between the parents. A lot about professionals, professional groups, preparation of the bill and research, but in this discussion, it is somehow decided that they would simply discuss the transition as if it were a major factor in the subject. I believe that all of us who come to this matter would agree to be balanced in the family. We want to increase equality, and we want to do what we can to promote it. No one who presented the committee spoke against it, regardless of what he spoke, that the shared parental responsibility, the care of parents with a child, and the care of a child with both parents in the early British language had a powerful influence, a positive effect, and a big deal for the children. This was not divided. In all these studies, it was said that equal division was important to achieve this success. Yet, all here strive to talk about the good results we have already achieved and how the birthworm has increased equality and has changed these last 20 years. I've wanted to point out that at the time this great success has been achieved, if we go to the playbook, three, three, three months for either parent or three parents. There have been other developments on this journey, and many other changes, e.g. in the workplace, in the community, and so on. However, it has been shown that the poles most closely depend on whether the maximum wage is covered and what the minimum wage is. It immediately affects the way parents use their months, and the same parent takes all the months or months. While there was no roof, a large proportion of fathers were used in common rights, but as soon as the roof was covered, and the maximum payment was rather low, I can't quite remember the numbers, but it was at least to 70%. It's been coming back as the roof has gone up. If we are really going to succeed as parents divide their responsibilities, the roof must be raised, as the independent party often speaks. This leads to the best results. They need to find this middleway, raise the roof, and then try to increase the number of months. Now we have taken the fine step of increasing the months, and the roof has been rising steadily, but more is needed. The minimum is also influenced by the way women use the orc, as shown in the Committee. We agree on the tests, we agree on our goals, and it sounds like everyone has agreed on the results that have been achieved so far. I think we need to be honest about other things, but the exchange is important in achieving the goals that everyone agrees to achieve. The facts also tell us more, i.e. that 75% of mothers who walk with children who choose to distribute their rights to extend it, take the rights they have to birthalorfs, and distribute it over more months to have more time with their baby at home. They choose, and that's what we're supposed to respect. That is not to be condemned at all. It's just their choice and they have a right to it. The lower they have, fewer months, natural means that within 12 months of the most frequent period, they are in half their wages, but as the months increase, their pay rate decreases. Just what is mainly explained by obstetrication is the difference between the genders in the labour market and today. We too need to examine these matters from the qualities of equality. In the case of parents who do not walk with their child, the average use of more than 90% of their rights is now taking advantage of over 90% of their rights. It turns out that those who don't live with their children use their rights, take more orlof, show the numbers. Since parents are living together, it is more likely that the right of a parent who did not take the child is not entirely new and that he or she will lose months. The arrangement for parents to live together and bring up their child is in over 50% of homes. Based on these results, it is more likely that the child will not receive all 12 months for them to go to the courtyards. I think it's very important to think about it. The children of parents who live together are more likely to receive all the care. That is where we return to our income and how our home differs from one place to another. This situation is so different, so it is so important to have room for a family who has the responsibility to raise a child, that she is entrusted with the responsibility to exchange the worm properly, as is best for her child. If a parent has more than one child, it may vary between children whether or not the parent takes longer or later to give birth. Everything just depends on the circumstances every once in a while. I think the reason for this is in most cases financial. For parents to be able to use all the rights, those with a moderate or low salary, they must have only 80% wages for up to four and a half months, as it is today. It can create tensions, worries, and other factors at home. You have to take it all into the bigger picture. How important it is, then, for your child's interests and for his family to have space and flexibility so that they can adapt to their individual circumstances! Then I come back to the fact that parents need freedom to care for that responsibility. It will not be done unless someone is trusted to do so. Trustful ones are responsible. This is the clear will of young people. We have often talked about it in this hall, and politicians have generally talked a lot about it, at least during battles, how important it is to listen to young people, future generations, to the people on the scene. These people have sent in envelopes. There were 253 excerpts from government consultations, much from those who are having children or who have had children and who use their birthworm. They're young people. A recent survey from Iceland's Mental Health Association, published in December, shows that 63% of the population wants to be more flexible, is important. We must not have the view of the generation to come, the generation of children, just for the sake of time. We should listen to her now as always. We also need to take this into account, and we can say that there was a generation change here. Times have changed. I'm not saying full victory is won, I've never said it, but there's another value. Our viewpoints have changed, and we must show confidence in young people and listen to their will. It's just very important. It is important to trust young people in making decisions. There isn't always law, law, law. I'm not saying that it's excluded. That's why I haven't spoken for twelve, zero possibilities, which would be the natural best position if we were there that we could have it that way. So I've spoken for four, four, four times. It is of the same hurt as the rule that has been valid here mostly since 2000, i.e. Three, three, three. We've been successful there, and that's why I'm talking about it. But I am glad that after that discussion, we received a lot of visitors, including some of them. The surgeon general, four, four, four of the proposals, of Iceland's Viper Association, who indicated that equal exchanges, six, six, six, and allow exposition in two months, Iceland's Psychological Association, which spoke a lot about this, and more people. We have come to that conclusion. The welfare committee is going apart and has it replaced by four weeks, as the bill suggests. It would have been eight weeks, according to the six, six, two, route, or four, four, four. This is a step forward. I signed that opinion in advance because of the exchange, as if I've gone over here. My lord is because of her. I also think it is important that, within the next two years, for the change in a greater part of the welfare committee, there is a preliminary directive to monitor the trend and to review, or to observe, how this has been going within the next two years so that if this does not develop in the right direction, it can be handled. We will also have the opportunity to discuss these matters, and there may be continued talk of increased freedom in these matters, as I will while I am here at the General Assembly. I will speak for greater freedom in these matters, speak for greater confidence in young people, speak for family freedom, and speak for their child's interests. It is only extremely important that the child receive the best care in the best environment and that the family's interests are guaranteed in the first few months of the baby's life and out of it. Nor should we speak as if this was the only solution. We need to be alert in more places. It's a labour market strategy, I'm totally into it, but that doesn't mean you can't look at your child's interests and keep them richer than job equality. I'm not saying that there's a choice, though, but that it goes together. In view of today's situation, equality can be achieved even if there is room for the family. It is mainly the labour market that speaks for this, and I would also like to see him show initiative and responsibility in other places, making sure that both parents are encouraged to use their right to birthworm and that they are assisted, that there are no prejudices against it. This must also follow the children after the birthworm, and the family policy of an enterprise, both public and private sector, needs to be good. Not only is communication at the beginning, but it's important then and gives the tone. We've got all kinds of work to do. Parents'rights as well need to be in more fields, as is often the case. We need to make sure of this, just as in custody, social contact, and other matters. This has to be done in a number of ways. We must not think that this is the only thing or talk about it as I think it has been. Although the birthworm is a powerful influence, it is not our only device, nor are its months our only device, but its economic factors are very important too. I feel a little bit sorry for the discussion and research, and the words of the professional have been applied to these months. I'm not on it. Finally, I say we have trust and freedom for young family members. It will reward us with good responsibilities and better family life in which the youth of this land will heal, grow up well, and create good welfare here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u9	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for his coverage agree that money, trust, and freedom are important, but protection against violence is also important. This is of importance because a child raised by violence can be permanently damaged by the development and the brain. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator why he believes it is not necessary for a child to live with a parent who has been subjected to the use of a restraining order, the police make a decision, or the prosecution decide to use a restraining order, and to seek court decisions, that it is automatic in the six months of birth code so that the child can have a safe environment during the first 12 months of his life. I don't know. The legal senator is on a child - law code which is that if people who are married or have children, they will share with them in an arrangement of 8 mg. Count 9. does not come to the aid of those who work together with one another in advance. We need to pay attention to children and protect them from violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u10	A respectable president. The subject was addressed at the moment. A well - being committee and a great deal of it is discussed in the leading section of the committee. There are changes in this transfer in connection with a restraining order. So I believe we have responded to these concerns. However, I would like to say that while parents have engaged in a violent relationship, the child does not have the right to contact the parent under the restraining order. Your child may not be at risk or be at risk of violence there. Here we have professionals, child protection systems, and police, where I also worked and participated in such matters, to ensure the separation of both parents to a child, under some circumstances under supervision or through a professional and so on. All the discussions in this matter, about how things change, have been about the relationship and right of the child to form a bond with both parents and to be cared for by both parents. I think it's better in a few situations that test this out, and I don't think we should make it impossible in all cases for a parent who has a restraining order to take care of the baby.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u11	Mr. President. This is not the case with breaking up or stopping or anything like that. We are discussing the right to take birth Oralfs for six months with a child after using the other child's parent so grossly violent and threatening that a restraining order is the only way to protect a parent and a child. I'd like to set up this example, since we're talking about a child during the first six months of our life, where it's possible. This is about whether a child will be allowed to enjoy continued observation or he will need some custody after six months because the other parent has a restraining order. Like what? A senator answered this just moments ago, as he believed that child care could be assured of such care by a parent under supervision so that he can care for his child's primary role in a six - month birth course. There is no institution in Iceland that can perform such a surveillance role. For example, when you are building a bond between parent and child after violence or when you need to monitor dating, it may be a partnership every two months for two hours, not every day for eight hours, and so that the other parent can go to work. [[The president calls.]] I think there's some misunderstanding going on, and no matter how many times they come up here and refer to some law that's supposed to be there, none of it guarantees this child and his rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u12	A respectable president. It is now that parents have 24 months to make their six - month uses, not necessarily take it out during the first six months of their child's life. We have to put this in perspective, it's a 24-month period. It is absolutely clear in the law that if a parent has a restraining order toward the child, the right to the other parent and if a parent is unable to take care of the child because of the restraining order closes the other parent, the court will also move over according to the change in the share. So even if the person has received a restraining order because of violence against the other parent, it is not excluded that the child can be in the child's care without being in danger and then it is only very strong. But if the child and the welfare of the child are in any danger, then the laws that are both in the majority opinion and the variations in the section and at the time of the bill will guarantee it. I think it means a lot to me. This is a 24-month reference, which clearly states that if the child's interests go against the six - month care of the parent who has a restraining order during this 24-month period, the trial can be canceled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u13	A respectable president. We're gonna talk about a big deal here, and I'm gonna let me say that I think it's a bigger and more important thing than a lot of people suspect because it's such a big deal for the future. It's about our future, our children, and it's also about how we want to see society build up. I'm not just referring to an equal case in this case, though there's an enormous amount of equality. I'm also referring to the important issue that we celebrate the birth rate. There is concern about the decline in birth rates in recent years. Although we are still a young nation compared to many of our comparators in many parts of Europe, this is a concern. We're going to grow old, and we're going to enjoy the welfare of a community that Iceland has to offer, but it takes working hands when we become a pensioner. This is the danger we face, and it is so important that we build a community that, at the same time as young people demand to attend, to be able to do their job, to get a career, to do social activities, and other things, all the things life offers, people need to have the opportunity to grow up and build up families. I just want to refer to an interesting bill that came from Ásdís A. Arnaldur and others. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. About the birth rate, by permission of the President: A new study comparing birth rates in Iceland, Norway, and Sweden showed that in all three countries, people were more likely to have another child if a father had taken a birthport. Similarly, in the year 2000, Ari K. Jónsson's study showed that there was a law on birth and parent'sorof law that ended the birthrates until the law's sentence and the chances for people to have one another and for a third child to grow. On the other hand, the birth rate after the collapse of a bank was significantly reduced after the delivery of the birthal graffiti roof, which reduced the father's birth rejuvenation. Therefore, it is so important that both parents take the maternity code. It's also important that we climb the roof. We may also need to raise the floor, but then we also need to consider how a stock fund is financed. But I might come to that later. It's not a pet project. It's an equal thing. Because they are harsh economic issues, it is so important that we have the father's right to take birthworm. In fact, it has been found that the right of independence to fathers that we were able to create here by the birthworm law since 2000 is the most important factor in gender equality. Of course it's a combination of a lot of factors, but this is the big show. This did not just have a huge effect, and it is a huge effect when it comes to a young woman coming to the job market and pursuing a job. It certainly had an effect there, that the employer didn't look at a woman and say, "Well, you may be going into the maternity room." I'd rather hire this young man because he's less likely to go to birthbreak. This is usually the case, but it also has long - term consequences. The fathers draw closer to their children, and as a result, they also care for them in the future. Thus, there is a difference between the sexes between the households. It's so important. In the ground it's sort of the word, and I think it's the big thing here, and it's supposed to be a fight for fathers. There's a reason why the midwives here make fathers more and more of that into the birth process. One of the most important is e.g. That the fathers should give the child to their breasts, i.e. to the skin of the skin, because a connection is important in the first few minutes, and the more important it is for men to have the opportunity to care for their children in their maternity vacations. I'm also going to point out that I think it's like that, and I've been going through my own way, that me and my mother, sometimes we just get a little too much on these children and give the man or the fathers all too little opportunity to be involved in the process. I think it is fully examined in the importance of men's having a real share in the training of their children from the first time on. In this regard, the birthworm is once again very important. I'm going to get back to this interesting review from Ásdís A. Arnaldur and others. It even says, by permission of the president: A recent report by the World Health Organization (WHO) reported that some of both sexes were dealing with fathers more positively than children from all opposing countries, 41 of them. The study included the first years of life that benefited from the increase in fathers' rights to take birthworm and has led investigators to the likelihood that this result was the likely result of the increased potential of fathers to care for their children after receiving their own rights to orlofs. A recent comparative study of between parents and children in the North countries also suggests that there is a link between the length of fathers' birthworm and the quality of their association with their children. Again: This is not just a matter of the first few months but of the future. I also find this same review interesting, so I get to refer to it again, when it comes to divorce rates. Of course, this is not the case with the birthworm law, but this is so that by the release of the fathers'right to birth vacations, divorce rates were reduced in Iceland. I find that to be a very interesting conclusion too. This independence of fathers is so important from culture in the workplace, and I'm going to say what I haven't said in this speech here, but I said it to 1. Um, that I supported the bill as it looked then, i.e. with the exchange six, six. I also felt that it was reason for me to have this one month handed out, since circumstances may vary. But I also added in that speech that it may be important to make some adjustments in making changes to meet different viewpoints. We'll see that on the reviews. We've got some very good, very cool reviews, including. which I've been referring to here, from our leading experts up at a university in equality, social advice, etc. which recommend an even switch. But we also received a lot of applications that go the other way, saying that parents'freedoms need to be increased because circumstances vary. So I'm going to thank you. The welfare committee for the Commission's opinion and changes in their proposals, thinking that they have done quite well. And because earlier in talks, I have been reviewing the history of the birth serpent and how much we've been talking for a long time and how important it is to take this step now, I'd like to say that we've been talking about it for a long time as five, five, two. I think it's such a much better way to talk about six, six, and now we've added one of the six, which is very cool in this relationship specifically. I think it's so important that these are the rights of each individual, and they can then negotiate in some way to transfer him over. I think it's much more important because we've seen that fathers have so far taken their own rights but generally not from this so-called pot. It's the culture that has somehow developed. It looks at the woman: Yes, of course, you take your own right and common rights. While the man is wearing a horny eye, he intends to take more than his own rights. It's culture, of course, and I'm not saying that we change it only by one law, but the law has a tremendous impact. That's why I think we're taking a very successful step here with these six weeks, I think it's a certain innovation, and I think it's a good landing. There is more to be done in this category, and then we have to look to the locals. Farmers must have the authority to offer an excellent day - to - day service and school service since the release of maternity vacation. I'm also going to allow myself to point out that my rural society can come up with other solutions. I'm very much in favor of small children's playthings myself. I think all children should go to nursery school because it's the first level. It's just a question of what age they're going to start school. However, there are other solutions that can be used. The day - to - day parents are one solution, but there are also certain payments for home assistance and other resources that can be used to help. Of course, the big thing is that parents need the means to have children and to do their jobs as they choose, and then, of course, this community service is a matter of day - care and so much to play. Finally, I'm going to say this: Of course, the next step should be to increase the income roof and the levels of birth. I think it's urgent. I welcome the big, important step we are taking here, and I would also like to sharpen our eyes to raise the roof. But at the same time, as I said earlier, we have to watch the funding of the fund. And at the time we're now, where we're lowering the insurance and the number of people on the unemployment list is growing, we need to consider the future of the stocks and long-term financing. But raising this roof would be an even greater step in the equal struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u14	A respectable president. It's kind of fun to listen to the discussion today because I think we all realize that the big picture is, as it was suggested at the beginning, progress. Actually, at the time, the birthworm was accepted as being longer than 12 months. She was then pulled back, but last year she was approved again and started extending the birthworm in stages, and now we're completing it. It's been about 20 years since I was here, and I participated in a discussion about a landmark law, a set of laws that other nations considered to us, when we changed our maternity issues and introduced a nine - month birthorof which is of utmost importance to the child, as well as a parent's relationship with a child, and not least in terms of equality. It was as if we were familiar with the three, three, three, and not transferable during the three months each parent was given. Of course, things have been happening since the day of success, and especially since that case played a major role in the way we handled equality, as well as in the fact that there were other decisions we made in our affairs. Within groups that are now in the government. We're talking sexy in corporate management, and I'd be happy to admit that I was very high - school at it. I didn't approve of it, thinking that the companies would have to have the freedom to decide it for themselves, that they would do it if they were motivated. But nothing happened until it came from the legislature. The first time we had the hearing of the obelisk, it was said: "You have two years to act. Unfortunately, the two companies did not make enough use of the companies, so it turned out that it was legal for them to turn on parvotes in companies. Then there was an interesting debate about the bill that actually encourages companies to comply with the sex - fertilization laws in companies with 50 or more people. Then these differences were again seen between classes and groups of conservatives in my opinion. It was apparent that both the Independence Party and the Central Party were strongly opposed to the fact that companies with 50 and more were actually pressured by legislation to satisfy sexuality in corporate governments. I say this to paint a particular picture that we have of the sort of sort, and there's nothing wrong with it. This does not involve excessive criticism. Parts have different ideologies and the way people approach this important issue, namely, to achieve equality in the country. We have a different view of this matter, and of course it changes from time to time too. We will see that when this important matter was adopted in 2000, the dream was to reach 12 months, and that is what we are discussing today 20 years later. Today, I have the opinion of the situation, including With parents, with rural communities, each country's wide and wide, there is reason for us to set a slightly higher goal and discuss the full 18 months of birth, where the exchange could be nine, nine between parents. There are future mice, but it is good to allow ourselves to be able to handle these every time we take a step on the same important issue as this one is. In the year 2000, this was not the least of the agreements with the workforce. This was emphasized by the workforce. The case we are talking about right now is not a direct part of it with the workforce as it was done back then, but it is perfectly clear what the workforce is. Consider, for example, the view of BHM, BSRB, the business organization. They have emphasized the importance of the exchange. You see, the exchange has meaning for equality, for the sex status of the labour market. It's true what's been said here, including half what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason, that there is more than the exchange that means how we achieve equality. I agree with that. As we divide, increases on the roof are extremely important. But the exchange itself has meaning. Well, it's a good sign that we're making some adjustment because we're in, I don't mean to call a hook street, but we have a suggestion from the greater part of the compromise proposal, the bad compromise proposal of my opinion. She's gone back. She is a particular setback based on how the matter was settled. However, because of such situations, it is inevitable to propose an increase in the roof at the same time. It's still that way, I'm hearing it after listening to all the talks today that they're using freedom, the wonderful concept that has been so far away from the board of directors for the entire ideal period, in order to justify the conclusion that the woman will eventually take more months on maternity leave. Where there's little equality, and I don't know how many times we've said that, there's little freedom. If it's not equality, there's no freedom. It is impossible to say that people have one choice or another. If we do not have equality, these beautiful words of freedom of choice cannot be drawn into such discussions. Part of our duty and responsibility as lawgivers, when changing such important legislation as this, is to consider just what is the objective of the bill. The primary goal is, indeed, the child, to ensure the child's relationship with his parents, that both parents are associated with the child at that precious time. But the goal is just as equal. The discussion we had here 20 years ago was equal to the red strand. People understood why we had to take this road, which is not finished. You see, we need endurance to complete our equality issues. We have to endure, because we haven't finished this yet. All criteria, all numbers demonstrate that there is still a sexual difference in pay between labour markets. Women's employment market situation is even weaker than men. We need to fix it. We're not finished, and then we can't put on such amazing valuable devices as the law on maternity. I would like to quote Pétur, the late Blöndalur, who at his time gave a very good speech, with the permission of a president: ▪ In order for each individual's abilities to be fully useful to society, it is necessary to have full equality for the most qualified individual to be hired at all times. It's not today. Indiscriminateness between men and women is evident and must be corrected by any means necessary. This is so obvious as he said, as it is shockingly obvious, that such a voice is no longer to be found within the Independence Party, so I say it quite plainly after listening to the talks of members of Congress. This is the exact approach that was at the time and was the key to the development of these prospective legislation. All right, we should use 20 years to determine if there is any need to change. Is there evidence that we can say: Yes, we're going to go about this in order to reduce the inexpensive right of our fathers? Is there a standard that we have? The Norwegians looked to us back then and set exactly the standard that we had, with the unsalvable right of our fathers. As various experts have noted, it can be seen in a very good article by Ingólfur V. Gíslason's son, Sigrún Júlíusdóttir, and the Guðný - made Björk Eydal in the morning, showing a recent example in Norway a clear effect of steps taken by the Norwegians in power and in the light of freedom of choice. In 2014 they said: "Yes, we are going to shorten this inexpensive right of fathers by four weeks. Fathers were immediately reduced. In view of this experience, the Norwegians decided to restore their rights to their original condition and since 2018 it has been 15 to 19 weeks as it was before. And what happened in Norway? Yes, Fathers again took the extra wormof. It is only after last year that we extended the four or four or two or more or so. But what did fathers do? From three months to four months, they stepped in on a maternity vacation. They did. And we ensured our child's right to be involved with both parents. Let us use our experience, also using the experiences of the nations we would like to compare ourselves with, in order not to stop and relax in the fight of equality as we cherish the way we view our child and the environment that we live in these precious times in the lives of all families. It is inevitable to mention this with the freedom of choice and the tips of consultation. It is true that there were very many indications that there should be more. These are exactly the same voices that we had to deal with 20 years ago. They also came to their viewpoints. But if we're serious about completing this process in order to improve equality, promote greater equality, use all tools and tools to do so, and be not afraid of it, we dare come into this chamber and speak to what we think is right, which is to promote equality in a labour market, contribute to the right sex wherever we are in the community, then we use this opportunity within the door to do it. I'd like to quote from someone who's far-sighted, forward, free-man, has fought for freedom everywhere where she's been, and there's Ásdís Halla Bragdóttir. She wrote on her Facebook page the other day, with President's permission: ▪ At the General Assembly, you are now dealing with maternity and how to exchange it between parents. The big question is: Should half be bound to a father? It was not until the birthal salofing of the year 2000 that men were granted their own right to take birth vacations. The fact is, for 50 years, maternity was legally bound to women. By means of this central control, the State established a sex role that women were meant to be at home with young children, while men should be at work. Fortunately, the birthworm is being extended again. Various conservative members - and well meant, it is not I who are saying this, that is, Ásdís Halla Bragadóttir who writes this - ◯telja that parents should have perfect choices as to how their maternity is divided and not to tie part of it to fathers. I support the individual's freedom of choice, and I understand the viewpoint, but from ancient times it is such a thing that only mothers take the birthoroft that there is a chance that this tradition will continue unless part of the worm is tied to fathers. It is also the only way for the workforce to hold men's hand and let them into the homes to care for their newborn babies. Research shows that children's relationship with their fathers has been greatly strengthened as part of their birthworm was tied to them. Change that would be a big step back.◯ I'll agree with this. This brings out the workers of the labour market, and there's a very clear message from there. I'd like to agree with it, too. The prime minister said earlier today when we handled other issues that are related to important equality steps: Equalities are not privileges. In a sense, it was respectable when prime minister and president of the left green took to heart the equality issues of the Ministry to emphasize the importance of equality. We know exactly what has happened here at the council's tunnel, which pressure has been put on the Independence Party, that there is no way to approve the formation of a social minister who comes from the advance party. And a good sign has been given to the advance party on equality, in this matter as he did 20 years ago. It must be hard for the highest. Social minister having to swallow this change, because this is a change. Some say, it's just two weeks. But this is a prince-changer. We are doing the same thing that the Norwegians did that had a negative effect on the way their fathers took their maternity. That's why I say, it's a negative change. It's a setback. It's a comeback. I don't feel far-sighted and painful because I know that left green and progressive have the heart in these matters, seeing them be a drawer for the third team. That's what's going on here today. There are other important factors in this matter. The important rights of single parents, parents living in the country, etc. are being addressed. There are so many other good things in this. But the big prince's case is the exchange that has been cut off by the dissatisfaction of the Independence Party, and I'm sorry that she was sacrificed at the horse markets that have taken place in the council of the past few days. I did not think that the left green would yield in this matter; nor would I want all the strong talks, meaningful talks, meaningful articles. I feel there's a certain pain in this, and I share that pain with them by the fine people who command these classes. My appeal to members of the board is not to agree to this change proposal, let them try to see if more things are meant to keep up at least Social Minister as it was at the outset. I think it would be worth a try to see if you could get more of that suggestion. A conversation is a word that sometimes is good, but it is not that often, rather, cover up something that people may feel bad about. Then, men and women should just say that it was a compromise with forces that have not so far guided it and have not been able to speak for equality at an opportunity. This is not the way I am speaking down one or any class. [[The president calls.]] I'm just sorry to see the progress of this case, this other good case that I'm rooting for, but I can't support the adjustment proposed by most of the council and hence the government groups. I will say no to her, but yes to the whole case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u15	President. Thank you. A senator's review of this series of issues is of utmost importance, especially over the record of the steps that have been taken. I agree with what. A senator that it is of utmost importance to remember that there will never be a way back on these matters but that it will always be in front of him. I cut it after a while. A senator did not pause for long at the step back in 2013 when a 12 - month birth vacation was thrown out and returned to the old system. But since I know what to do. A senator came to that decision, and I would like to ask him why. A senator's reaction to this decision would have had some effect on the government. One Senator Sitting in 2013 - Am I wrong? [[2013?]] It was the 2013/2016 government, wasn't it? [[Foreground on: No.]] Listen, I beg your pardon. But, hey. A senator was involved in politics. I'm actually fishing for the setback that happened, regardless of who made the decision, because we all need to be, and I agree with that. A senator, on his toe with it. I beg your pardon for the false record. It was an accident.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. At the same time, I don't know if it's right to say nice things, but I like to feel the passion the senator obviously has for it. I'm sure his situation is not easy. It's never easy to be in more things. I'm quite aware of that. The government faced that decision. I disagreed with her, but I also realize that the reasons probably were economic. But I also say, and I've often used it, that there's always the right time to think about paying taxes, though some people don't think it's the right time to lower taxes, it's always the right time to think about equality. In times like this, as we experience now and also in economic crisis - we are naturally only temporarily in a crisis, and although it is huge, we hope that we will soon recover from it, and we'll be very strong and intense - we can't view equality as something extra. We have to watch the prince's back. It may be my appeal to the whole world of Congress, not to indulge in equality because history does not judge it well. History does not judge the 2013 decision to return to the birthplace of 12 months. It wasn't a wise decision, which is obvious, I don't think I need to explain why it wasn't a good decision. But all right, I'm not going to be completely in that negative gear, but I warn people, because in the whole thing it's a good thing, but it's taking a worse picture than we would have had to go on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u17	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree and agree with the opinion that these steps need to be taken into consideration and exactly because there will not be a relapse. But later, I was going to come in on it as a matter of course. The senator concluded on, i.e. that, overall, the matter would be good, and maybe draw it out and pray. A senator - because we are now looking at the rearview mirror, which I'm not really bored with, and not because I'm some decomposing idiot, but because I'm a historian - looking only to the future and to the steps that are currently taking, just in the number of months. I'm asking why. A senator does not share the joy of me and others that, however, we are taking the step of getting to the 2013 place where we were, that we have come to that place, no matter how the six weeks will eventually be replaced, to see whether the parent gets an increase in the right and if it is not a cause for rejoicing, regardless of how that transition will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u18	A respectable president. Yes, I'm glad we're taking the 12-month step, but I'd also like my concern about the wiretap being recorded from here on out and inside the council. The application is relevant to the position of women in the labour market. We know this well, and it has been said many times that when an employer is confronted with hiring a 30 - year - old woman and investing much in staff, a well - known case is known - and this example included the term Pétur Blöndal, and we know that it is realistic - that the employer chooses the man because he is less likely to go to birth school than the woman. Women's position must be strengthened in the labour market, and this is why the implementation is of great importance. And I once again declare disillusionment with this compromise. Yes, I could say that the responsibility of the left green is great, but I also feel for them because they're in charge of the government and have to stick to the government together. I'm aware of all this. But I rather feel that the responsibility of the other members of the government is great in this regard. It has happened in the past that the government has joined in helping the government groups to set matters straight, such as this. The women's freedoms issue in the matter of pregnancy rupture, in which part of the Independence Party was opposed. Then came the natural government and helped the government. I wanted to put it to the test, too, because I know inside I don't want visitors and left green people that way. She's not their first choice. [[The president calls.]] They've been forced into it. I'm sorry it's coming to a different conclusion. [[The president calls.]] I want to draw it out. It is progressive to see that the birthworm is extending to 12 months, but it is not good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u19	Mr. President. I want to thank them at the end of the discussion. Congress members who have participated in it very much for the participation, objective participation, and for the best of all speeches. After sitting here for more than five hours listening to every talk, I have at least been convinced that a big step is taking. We're extending the birthworm from ten months to 12. Let's not forget that, huh? Councilmen, how important that is! The nature of the situation and perhaps because the situation is such in 2020 that much of the United States Congress and the largest part of it are beginning to realize that equality is extremely important, and therefore it is important to talk about the importance of change. Hence, it is important that we define six months as each parent's rights. That is why it is so important that we too are extending the right that humans cannot replace. Both are extremely important. Both the roof and the floor have been spoken to by men. Men have been talking about the need for care that we know is still there. To me, the solution to these three, what to say, is problems with the next steps we're supposed to consider in terms of improving the birthal law in Iceland. The provisional principle is also effective because the law will be reviewed after two years, once these legislation has been run for a single period of rights, i.e. 24 months. It is a joy to see a large body of members in the matter and to be prepared to take this crucial step in behalf of equality in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u20	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Committee's opinion of a greater part of the welfare committee on the bill on maternity and parentoroft. It is a turning point for us to make a final payment at the council and discuss the matter with 2nd. This important progress for equality in Iceland. At the same time, this is a major progress in the rights of children in Iceland. It is a pleasure to discuss, reviews, and so forth. A welfare committee actually appeared a very large, broad and good agreement on all the basics of the matter, i.e. at the age of 12 months and the basics of the parent's right to maternity. It's important to mention this here in the beginning. The committee has also discussed other legal arrangements presented in the committee's opinion, and I will tore the following. There were many guests before the committee, and I'm not going to read all that number, but they are conscientiously mentioned in the committee's opinion. At the same time, there was a review of as many sources as the committee. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that prior to making contributions at the General Assembly, there had been a number of debates about the matter in the European Commission's consultations. So the matter has been well discussed in the community. In particular, a little over a year ago, I think it's safe to say, talk about. The welfare committee on this very issue when it was decided on a preliminary law to extend the birthworm this year to ten months and the birthworm next year with temporary regulations for 12 months. Then the entire law will be taken care of here. As it is known to members of Congress, it is suggested in the bill that there will be a new law on birth and parentorof which will replace them at 20 years of age. It is suggested that birth rights and parental vacations be extended for 12 months and divided evenly between parents by one handed month. Especially is it that this timely step has been taken to extend the maternity of the womb. What I think it is safe to say is that the most important time I spent talking about was at the moment. The welfare committee was a factor that turned toward the dislodgment of the mouth. There were many viewpoints, each showing an individual's point of view. I don't think there's any exaggeration to say that within Congress and out in the community, there has been a wide range of differences between parents from being separated to being incompetent for six months to whether parent with no exchange. However, the bill, as mentioned earlier, assumed that the exchange is one month between parents. The committee also provided opinions on this matter, both of increasing flexibility and of the lack of progress in the separating and sharpness of life. The major part result is to enter the substitution factor range both, i.e. to increase a little in the amount of time allowed between two parents, from four weeks to six weeks, but not all the way to allow for two months, and not the way of total freedom in the exchange. It is important to note that this is the case with the committee that the very view of taking both parents on maternity vacations is of utmost importance in the way children fare in their lives. It was particularly interesting to have even received. Information on the committee that the father's carature had many positive effects on the lives of children, including children. behaviour and emotional well - being, including a reduction in boy's behavioural problems as a result of increased involvement with fathers, and a girl's confidence in the same participation. This is very important, and therefore, the more part is overreached, he expects that when the new law takes effect, parents will try as hard to take it out as possible, and we hope that it will work out, to help us reach the goals that are presented. However, by extension, not all the bears, as it were, are destroyed. At the end of the maternity vacation, there will be a period that some have described as the care factor or caregiving period according to events, namely. The time between the end of the delivery session and the time when a child will be assured of a school space. A few rural societies in Iceland have already been able to take over the children after delivery, but we have a long way to go as a country and as a community to reach it fully. The closing of this interval continues to be a cooperation project of the State and the local community. The committee stresses that when a conversation begins between the state and the local community on this subject is started. In the 9th. the bill, and then also for 30. The authority on birth strength or the right to birth power is discussed on the sources of exuberance mentioned in 1st. Section 8. In this case much discussion was made in the Committee, especially on the part of a restraining order. This aspect is very important, and the committee spoke extensively. I think I'm going over this part by just reading this section of the Committee's Thoughts, and it's important: ...at the 9th C.E. The bill for the birthworm and the 30th parr. for birth concentrations are listed as cases that may lead to prolonged, exogenous, or voluntary replacement of parent's right to birthalorf/birth strength beyond the month expected by the parent to be able to deliver to the other parent at the time of 8. par., 26. or 27. The bill. In view of the greater part, this is an important legal step for single parents, since the cases in which one parent can receive the whole ororal right are extended from the current law. The right of a child to enjoy up to 12 months of birth holiday, when only one parent is able to use her right to take a birth holiday, is thus guaranteed. One of these events is found in 3 mg. the law of the law and shows that when a parent is subjected to a restraining order against his child and/or separation from a home, they are unable to care for their child within the first 24 months of its birth or after the birth of a child on the basis of parenthood or of a permanent fetus. If that is the right of the parent, out of the rights that he or she has already taken advantage of to the other parent. In this regard, whether parents share custody or not and the police or court should confirm that the parent will be a restraining order against his child and/or separation from home during the above mentioned period. The committee discussed thoroughly whether it was appropriate to permit a correct delivery/birth rate if the parent was a restraining order against the other parent, but not to the child. Children's protection laws include children's protection laws. assuming that if a child is exposed to behavior or conduct as a result of violence, threats, threats, or other actions, the Child Protection Committee may demand that the person be forbidden to come to a certain place or territory, to visit, or otherwise associate with a child. Furthermore, a child - welfare committee may demand that a person be banned from his home if the committee considers it necessary for the child's interests to be involved. In a memo sent by the Ministry for this reason, the paragraph 9 was referred to. The bill should have in common that there is a limit to a child's separation because of the more specific reasons. There were always situations that made a child unable to enjoy together with both parents and that these specified 9th issue. Therefore, do not violate the objective of the bill to provide a child with both parents. It would have been the conclusion of the work group working on the bill that, in view of the above objective, 3 mg was not correct. Count 9. to be used in situations where the parent's relationship with his child was felt to be okay despite the parent's having a restraining order with the other parent. A parent may, in some cases, be in good relations and relationships with his child despite being approached by the other parent. So it was assessed that if the sentence was made that it would be sufficient for a restraining order against the other parent, it would be contrary to the law to provide a child with both parents. Therefore, the occurrence of a restraining order to the child should only be considered. The majority of the evidence shows that the right to birth time for birth is missed when the child falls to less than 24 months of age. 2 mg. Section 8. If parents are to raise a child under the age of two together and they both take a hysteria within that time period, it is difficult to see that the greater part can be respected the restraining order that the parent is facing at the time. A parent may feel that it would be impossible to deliver his or her unspoken child to the other parent without presenting information about the parent's needs at any given time and the interaction of parents, whether written, oral, or acting through a representative of the child's guardian or relative, which may include a violation against a restraining order. On restraining order and expulsion from home, No. 85/2011, it describes conditions for the application of the material. The majority of the rights to restrain a restraining order are very burdensome measures that are used only in extreme need and if it is shown that other and less effective measures are not sufficient. Thus, disagreements or disagreements between parents cannot lead to the application of a restraining device. Then a restraining order may always require a police officer to make the decision. In view of the above, the more part is considered to be a problem, depending on the regular association of a child with both parents when a separate approach to the other. Consequently, the majority feel that the same argument may apply in these cases as when a restraining order is directed against the child himself. In view of this, the larger portion contributes to the 3 mg recommendation. Count 9. value also in situations where parental restraining order is directed against the other parent. Sets up the extra items for the same change of 3 mg. 30. g. It should be noted that a restraining order does not lead to the transfer of rights to birthworm. Rather, it is essential that the restraining order makes it impossible to use the rights it has to take within 24 months of birth, take it into a permanent fetus, or cause a child to enter the home as a primary route. Therefore, based on the fact that the parent under the ban has the right to a six-month maternity fart, the transfer per law cannot be made unless a restraining order is valid for the last six months of that period, i.e. when there is a period of 18 in the 24 months since the birth of the child [...] a parent has spent two months on his rights to take a birth Orallofs and delivered to the other parent within the last three months will lead to a restraining order that the parent thus does not have the adjustment of the birthal code except to the extent that the restraining order applies within the last 24 months of the period allowed to take the birth code. A temporary restraining order, established early in a 24-month period, is not enough to meet the requirement that a parent be unable to care for his child in the period. If a parent does not decide his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her oro, e.g. In a one month restraining order, when the child is three months old, the parent may still apply his whole birthal rights within the 24 month period after completion of the restraining order. By the adjustment made by the greater part, expulsion from a home or a restraining order, whether directed against a child or the other parent, is considered to cause a parent whose decision is directed to believe that he is incapable of caring for his child in the sense of the date of the decision. The divorce of the law that the parent's inability to care for his child during the first 24 months after its birth is only to the limit of time below but not to determine whether a parent is able or unable to care for a child despite a restraining order or expulsion from the home. Then the larger portion points to 8 mg. Count 9. includes the situations in which the parents are expected to not take care of their child during the 24 months that the right to take the birth Oralovs, where the parent does not associate with the child based on the findings of the law - appointed administration, or when it is established that the association of the unsighted parent with the child should be substantially limited, such as under supervision. Is the Labour Department authorized to bring the ruined right of the parent's unsuspecting right to the birthworm to the parent's custody. A similar law on birth intensity is found in 8 mg. 30. g. The bill. In view of the greater part, it is sufficiently certain that the holiday rights will move between parents early enough to avoid the unwanted discontinuation of continuous maternity in situations where the application is required. The Commission reviewed ideas about so - called gestational conditions, i.e. Orlof as usual in some countries around us, where the pregnant parent is allowed to go to the orlof one month earlier, i.e. before birth, which is considered, not as a natural birthlord, but as a pregnancy's mouth, and does not shorten the hysteria. As I said, it appeared before the Committee. The majority, however, feels that the sources that are already in the law and in the 17threme are available. the bill for prolongation of observation is essential for a pregnant parent due to health issues related to her pregnancy, to obtain leave from work or to leave the labour market, to obtain a specialist specialist's card. On the basis of this law, the worm may last for up to two months if I do not feel bad about it. There were some questions for the Committee on Whether a specialist's certificate meant that only birth - and - gynaecologists could sign such proof. Of course, this is not the case. It was also noted that women in the labour market, of course, have a collective contract right to an illness permit, as well as that of the woman's physician, that it is in the best interests of her health to stop working before her pregnancy can give her proof of that material. In the next chapter of our opinion, we will consider payments from birth ordinary funds and the reference period in calculating payments. The funds debate is not new, has been discussed, and was discussed extensively in the Committee, i.e. On one hand, what has been called the floor of the maternity bill and what has been called the roof. The floor is then e.g. The subsidies of a labour market in the minimum wage range may decline to the lowest level. For example, a person with $350,000 can. at monthly remunerations received at the highest dose of 280,000 K. out of the fund for a month. This was discussed in the Committee and found that the two groups today may be most likely to predetermine some part of their right to birth stocks were the most successful groups and the most efficient groups. It's been a while. Of course, these are important factors. The majority believe that the next step should be to consider whether the floor does not have to rise, i.e. After we've increased for 12 months, and then we'll determine if the roof should rise as well. (b) Why is it important for us to make adjustments in our understanding of the Bible? to these factors i.e. whether these laws need to be dealt with in a two - year way, the conclusion is that parents either take some part of their children's 12 - month pregnancy away from enjoying these togethers with their parents or that there's a lot of error in how much one sex takes too much more than the other sex. These are very important factors because the birthworm laws, as we know and at least in my opinion, are to one side of the strip at least and maybe to a large extent, a lot of equality. These factors need careful attention. 43rd. it says that if a pregnant parent is needed, according to the specialist's opinion, to stay away from home because of the necessary services due to the baby's birth, it is permitted to give the parent special strength for up to 14 days before the planned date of the baby, since a parent stays away from her home during those days. The subject was discussed extensively, as the poll shows. It was noted that this document was not sufficient and that the right amount of food for a parent would need to be increased beyond what it says. In fact, the committee solves it in two ways, one because the 14 - day right before birth is guaranteed, while it is also stated in the Motion of Change, that the rights are then valid until the time of the baby's birth. This ensures that a food - bearing parent, for example, is needed. leaving south of the West at birth point away from home but not giving birth exactly on the scheduled day can be sure that the support will remain until the baby is born and then the birthworm will be accepted by that person. For multiple births, these rights also had to be added. As the members of Congress may have no doubt, it is more common rather than the end of multiple pregnancy by week 40 and usually by week 37 to week 38. That is why this right must be extended to parents with multiple pregnancies. This proof must be published by a specialist physician's assessment but it is also stated that the need for more proof of disease proof and prolongation of observation is further stated in Article 17. A few comments were made about the parentorof of the committee, and as noted by members of the council, the parentsor is also being added and extended from three months to four months. However, the committee found that we do not really know much about the amount of parental fuel has been used because it simply has not been registered much and has not even been registered in public sources. With the approval of the bill there will be a separation that will also be recorded by the Directorate of Work. It will then be possible to determine whether it will be useful to allow parents to spend more time with their children. I can see that the parents'battle can make up new parents who can take part of a summer's vacation when their children may be what they want to be. Parents'vacation can be used until they are eight years old. The defect is natural in the parents' home, as the members of the council know, that it is not rewarded. It's the right to an unsalaried holiday. And in effect, it might be the next step to consider whether at least there is a reason for at least see if the family school could not have paid in some way. Substitutions other than those I've traced here are primarily fallen to enhance clarity, to form a validation of the law and the like, followed by changes in technical nature that are not meant to have material influence. In all of this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Under the majority opinion, write why. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, in advance, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnústótir, and Árnason Arjölmnason, in advance. At the end of my speech, I want to thank the welfare committee for the work on this matter and, in fact, all the managers, both the members of the council and also the consultations. It is important in such an important matter, such as this, that the community will be able to achieve it as far as possible. I believe that it's done well and that the landing we reach in this case is quite acceptable. I have no more of those words, Mr. President, but I'm glad that the matter has come to an end here at the council and is looking forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson is very grateful for the review of the committee's committee. All I want to do is kill down in the commission, which says, by permission of the President: It is noted that the restraining order does not lead to the transfer of rights to maternity. Rather, it is essential that the restraining order make the parent the ban impossible to use the rights it has to take place within 24 months of the birth of a child. So says, with President's permission: Therefore, it is estimated that unless a restraining order is in force in the last six months of that period, the parent who is under ban is entitled to have the right delivery order for the six months, i.e., this is not possible. after the time of the birth of the child... That's why I want to ask you why. A senator in the way he envisions this. Suppose a parent is under a restraining order after an attack on the other parent when the child is four months old. A restraining order is passed for six months, confirmed by the court and is extended for six months. So the child has not met his or her parent from about four months of age and is now 16 months old. Counts 'em out. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson is likely to be in the best of a child who has not met a parent since the age of four months, to be in a lot of care and delivery vacations for six months with a parent who used the other parent so much violence that it would be possible for 12 months?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir answers. As I put it in my background, and the senator is aware of it. The welfare committee. The Senator specifically asks whether it can be for the best of a child, in situations where parents have been violent, to associate with a violent parent in this case. I think it's probably not, but I also believe 8 mg. Count 9. if there are such cases, i.e. to ensure that the extension of the hysteria to the parent's custody is secure and that there is no right left in this same parent at the time, in order to make up the 16th month. I've had discussions with both lawyers and the Ministry convinced that it's the thought behind this last paragraph. g., grab these cases to make sure that your child receives a continuous birth certificate with his or her parents on the basis of this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u23	Mr. President. I can't get this to work, I'm sorry. It is clear in the Committee that only the last six months can be seen whether there is an active restraining order at that time, during these past six months, because it should be checked for a restraining order at that time. Therefore, this will not be the case until the end. And how? A senator argues that there will be a continuous birthworm when one parent so grossly abused by the other parent that a restraining order is applied and possibly confirmed by courts should be established when the birth serpent finishes the six - month - old child's age. Then the baby goes to a baby school at six months of age because that child is not protected by Iceland's legislature against this kind of nonsense. There is a child who has endured the abuse of one parent, so the other parent is judged in a restraining order. The child should be sent to a pack outside the home, but the parent who suffered the abuse should then 12 months later leave the workforce to finish six months if it seems more convenient for the person to feel comfortable, since the other parent may not yet be in position to care for the child. This is such a nonsense that I'm completely horrified over this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u24	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u25	Mr. President. Last paragraph 9 paragraph. The bill reads: If anticipated, an unscrupulous parent can be found - such as, for example, the parent. The parent as soft as the dog. A senator was referring to a parent's care for his child in the first 24 months after his birth or during the first 24 months after a child enters a home on the first or permanent fetus, where the parent has not been involved with the child based on the findings of law - defying governmental authorities or courts, the labour agency is permitted to bring the right of the barren parent to the maternity that has developed. 1.mg. 8. ., and the parent has not already benefited from it, to the parent's guardianship, as the parent picks up the parent's guardianship of the application to the employment agency. And he also says: The same is true when it comes to the conclusion of a legal administration or courts that a parent's economist association should be significantly limited, to form the conclusion of the Child Protection Committee or other legitimate authorities. I believe this paragraph, Article 9. If there is anything, it is better to embrace these children. According to that paragraph, a court order on restraining order is not required. Rather, it is sufficient for the parent not presupposed to be evaluated by law - appointed governments for his or her role. Then there will be the rest of its birthmark. As we can think about in this article, a greater estimate is that at the time these children do not have to be unduly interrupted by their birthmarks, as mentioned in the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u26	A respectable president. This is an enormously important case that we are discussing here 20 years after I was standing in that chair, and I voted with a long - awaited maternity vacation, which I spoke of as the dream of taking it up to 12 months or even longer. I believe today that the reality is different, that we need to go further, just because of family affairs and circumstances, on account of the labour market and the rest of the story. The big thing is, and I agree with what the prime minister said earlier, that equality is not a pet project. There is nothing more to do than to agree with the words of prime minister. I must say, however, that this proposal for a change in the transition is actually increasing at the expense of the woman's freedom. I believe this change is a comeback. I feel that this is because it took place here on a horse shop to meet views that are well - known and well - known within the Independence Party and the Middle Party. It's no surprise that the Independence Party does not survive on equality, but this proposal surprises me very much that it comes from the forward group, which included the U.S.A. to establish a more advanced law that we live in today, as well as one of the WG's prime minister who also teaches himself on equal issues. So I want to ask you why. Here is the suggestion: What is his opinion on equal rights in the labour market? What is his opinion on how this can affect women's employment position, and how this will affect the sex pay of the labour market, as well as their status? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir counters and questions. The Senator asks how I feel about the switch and how I feel it affects women's balance and rights in the labour market. I think we must look to what is determined in this law that was not determined in the previous law, i.e. that now both parents have a legal right to six months. There's a change from the previous law, and I expect that at least. that it's gonna matter. It was in the past that men accepted the exact right of their rights, but the part of the maternityor left exclusively landed in women. Here is a step toward adding to the right, should we say field nigger, and then defined. I think it's gonna matter for equality in this country. I think this will, at least in the long term, affect the pay of the sexes in a positive direction, i.e. ... hewill shrinkand staysout. But to make sure that we get to the destination that I and I are going to. Surely a senator wants to get on to them is set up this preliminary law to look especially after these factors, to see if it will succeed by legal law or legal rights until six months to encourage enough to take longer than that it needs to be taken up by a six - month birth course. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u28	A respectable president. I have to say, I don't quite understand if I'm listening to a left-wing change in equality. It'd be nice to know. The fact is that the government groups, with the support of the Central Party, are making a suggestion here, and we know exactly what this will be like. We know from experience that it is the men who take three months and the women six months. Instead of discussing here what would have been the difference of dreams, six, six, six, we're discussing a proposal from VG including that women may be at home seven and a half months, and men four and a half months. That's a fact. Why did we not look back on the experience of Norwegians who even changed? In 2014, did the unsalaried right of fathers shorten four weeks to meet their freedom? I want to remind people, I think it's especially necessary to remind the left green of them, that freedom isn't where there's inequity. Freedom is only attainable to equality. What did the Norwegian do? Their experience was bad. In view of this experience, fathers decided to restore their rights because of bad experiences, bad effects on equality. That's why I keep asking, "Why is it left green to get involved in changing these things? " As I said, the independence of the Independence Party is not surprising. But this transformation, I need a better explanation for why the left is going that way. The only explanation in my mind is that the pressure on the part of the Independence Party and other conservative forces here has been so great that it was impossible to do so or that the government would hang together for the rest of its terms. [[The president calls.]] Or simply that the left green has decided to compromise its policy on equality. It's just this, it's the conversion of the V.G. on equal terms, or the need to make an atonement for the conservatives of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. She asks if there's a major change in policy here at the left moving to the green supply. It's not. How's it going? I don't quite understand a member of the Central Party. The middle party has special opinion where they propose the exchange zero, 12. I don't quite understand the context of that, but let's put it between things. I can't see that changing the 52-week orlofi, moving about two weeks to a 52-week orlofi, where there is a legal minimum of six months for both genders, to change the front room by two weeks is a course of conversion. It's not at all. It is true, however, that less is done. A member of the council assumes that on the case of both consultation and the Senate committee, there were very different opinions as to what was the right switch, as I mentioned earlier, from no one to absoluth six months each. In other words, moving more than two weeks into the exchange is primarily the way of the committee to approach different viewpoints that are not only in the council but also in the community. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u30	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend Article 1 of this committee's 1st chapter of the bill for the Law on Childhood and Parentsorof. This is a follow-up of a new proposal that comes for payment tomorrow. The bill suggests that birthworm will be extended to 12 months and the right to birth power as well. Part 1 welcomes the change, and it is important for a child to enjoy the care of his parents as long as possible in the original language. According to the bill's report, where 20 years have passed since the birthmarking of the current law, it is appropriate to adapt the reproductive system to the social development, including equality and sex status of the labor market. A smaller section shows that although birth and parentorof is certainly a workforce, in some cases parents'view of what is best for them and their child in a particular situation. By 8. The bill is whether a parent is required to take six months with the exception of being allowed to deliver one month to the other parent, and it is said to meet the various family circumstances. It is difficult to see how this will benefit equality and especially how it will benefit the sexes in the labour market. Parents'circumstances vary, and what happens if one parent is unable to take six months? Will they fall? Would your child be able to enjoy only one parent? Parents want to be with their children, but in terms of my 1st share, the deadline will be 8. don't do anything but make guilt, even shame, for the parent whose parents for some reason are unable to take advantage of the intended part of the birth serpent. In this regard e.g. Note that parents can live in separate parts of the country, and it is like the bill that a parent or parents can have only one child, certainly not another child, or a third child in their life. You may see that it is appropriate for parents at some point to share the orloft, while with another child, it is best if one parent takes the whole orlade and the third becomes another. In other words, the circumstances of families differ and insist that there is room in the legislation to meet them. It cannot be overlooked that in the greater part of a rumor that the bill in government consultations made indications the importance of parents'having more time to decide for themselves how to divide the birthworm between them. There were over 250 reports, including a considerable number of reports from women. According to Iceland's Psychological Association, the bill went further in inflexibleness and pressure outputs than in existing laws, as well as that which had not been consulted with professionals on the needs of young children and families in the production of the bill. According to a surgeon's authority, it is important that a maternity of birth is defined not only as the right of parents in a labour market but also as the right of children to associate with parents in the first few months of life. During the first few months of his life, the child's continued care period supported healthy emotional relationships between parents and children and was a vital public health and mental health issue involving the right of children to a healthy start in life. It would be necessary to ensure that all children are in the same position as the opportunity to spend their first year in the care of their parents, regardless of marital status and custody. In that case, in which one parent could not or did not wish to take a birthlord, a child should share the rights of another child to 12 months of age. It was then noted that other northern nations had far more flexibility in their birth and parental law than in the proposed bill. In view of my first, it is important that governments do everything within their power so that parents can use the birth - and - parent bond available to them. Based on the above, 1 smaller portion of the section feels that parents will be free of the 12 - month maternity or birthmarks that are best suited according to their family's circumstances over a period of 24 months and suggests a change in the arrangement for this material. That's my 1st thing to do. the bill on prolongation, exposition, or enforcing of parental right to birth will be removed, and it will be unnecessary with the adjustment proposed at 8 p.m. The same principle applies to changing change by 30. g. The bill. From the above, 1st small section contributes to the approval of the bill with the changes presented here for introductions and we'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u31	Mr. President. A lower part of the welfare committee rejoices fully in the progress now taken by legally establishing the right of a 12 - month birth vacation with each child. The United States Government and the Left Motion of the Green Pronunciation, for example, legalized the 12 - month birth stock of a 12 month birthport. 143/2012, but the government of Independence Class and forward strategists, who chose after 2013's election, took away the prolongation in the first few months of their reign. Finally, seven years later, this great justice is being restored to law. Of course, we rejoice to do so. Another smaller section supports the prolongation of the birth plate, while governments must immediately begin working on further extensions. It is noteworthy that in our neighboring state, Sweden, the birthworm is 16 months and 13 months in Denmark, both areas have rich traditions and experience in child - playing schools. Research shows that care in early childhood has a profound effect on the individual's mental health for the future. Hence, it is of vital importance that the care and circumstances of children in the first few years of their lives are well cared for. It's socially important, but also economical. Both should be kept in mind when making room for maternity and evaluating its economic effects. There has been much good development at the first school, the nursery stage, here on the country, but just as young children's parents have to bridge between birth Schools and child - school courses, the stage is a very complicated step for children and the bites of those who should least be mentioned, the children themselves. A lower share also limits government work to speed up the effort to bridge the gap between maternity school and prenatal school, not just discussing it around elections but doing so little. Another smaller section supports the rights shown in the bill and guarantees the parents of children, since there is only one parent's right to delivery for up to 12 months. There was a lot of discussion in the Committee on the implementation of the right to take orallofs when a parent is facing a restraining order against the other parent. 3 mg. Count 9. The bill shows that such a move may occur when a parent's restraining order is directed against a child or when a parent is expelled from a home and only in such cases when the parent is unable to take care of his or her child during the first 24 months of his life. A smaller section highlights the use of a restraining order only under the rules of restraining order and expulsion from home, No. 85/2011. In Comb 4. The law states that it is permitted to use a restraining order if the accused is suspected of committing criminal offenses or in some other way disrupting peace indiscriminates, or if there is a risk of violating the person's ability to break the breach. In addition, the second-mind of a reminder that if the defendant is not in accordance with the above conditions, a restraining order should be established. Clearly, then, a restraining order is used only in very serious cases, and it was repeatedly presented to the committee. Part 2 suggests that under such circumstances, when a restraining order is the only means to protect a parent and a child, the legislatator must bear in mind the circumstances of a child's own fragile and fragile self - tolerance and provide adequate protection from violence. Another smaller section describes the surprise of the lack of understanding of more parts and governments in situations that break down so severely that lead to a restraining order. In the above cases, the majority have proposed a slight adjustment of the requirements for correct delivery, but not all the way to protect the fracture tolerance and the child, as smaller things seem to be absolutely necessary. A lower section gives evidence that, despite being so serious that a restraining order is applied, a parent's relationship with his child in the original series may be considered acceptable, unconvinced. In a memo received from the Ministry, it is suggested that an employee on the basis of a bill suggests that a parent with a restraining order to the other parent may be in good relations and communication with his child despite his actions that led to the application of a restraining order. Therefore, the task force considers it to be in violation of the law's purpose to regulations 3rd. Count 9. the value of a restraining order against the other parent, such as a restraining order against a child. A lower point is that this article refers to the right to birthworm with a child during the first two years of his life. A smaller portion illustrates satisfaction by adjusting the memory of the section to add a parental restraining order to the 3. mgr. Count 9. to see that a restraining order that a parent has to deal with the other parent is difficult to see when it is necessary for parents to communicate in terms of switching care for their baby. Part 2 of my brain agrees with that view, but it is difficult to see how such communication should be the best or possibly the best part of the relationship. However, a smaller portion of surprise is that when such situations exist, the greater part is not willing to limit rather the right of the parent who has a restraining order for the baby to be taken by a hysteria. The majority agreed that the parent who has a restraining order cannot, at the same time, take the birth relics with the child's appropriate care, but the majority do not consider that the parent's intake of the birthmark will be limited after the completion of the restraining order. This protests my second point severely. Another smaller portion emphasizes that the needleber is not used lightly. Thus, laws on restraining order and expulsion from home are clear and critical for the severity of the fracture and the risk for prevention. In addition, a specified time-separated approach should be made only by a new decision that the primary conditions of Article 4. The law is still there. If there is no communication between parents at the time of a restraining order in the child's original childhood, it is unlikely that a rich bond would develop between the parent and the child after a restraining order expires. Thus, it is unlikely that a restraining order would occur within the first six months of the child's life would be the relationship between the child and the parent who receives a restraining order after six months of the other parent's maternity so closely and abundantly that the parent is able to play a key role in the young unspoken child for the next six months. In addition, the extent to which a parent who has been subjected to violence and her child is entitled to take only six months at a time but to wait until the end of the month of birth due to a survey of the parent's setting up a restraining order in situations that cannot be applied 8 mg. Count 9. the bill to get the maternal rights suggested. Then the child is 18 months old and has been in some kind of daily care since the completion of the 6 month period of birth. A smaller portion of the United States calls to mind that according to national and foreign studies 20% of pregnant women are exposed to violence during pregnancy, 20%. During pregnancy, 1 in 5 women suffers physical violence. Also, research shows that violence in close relationships often starts in the first few months after the birth of a child. Hence, it is vital that the lawgiver be aware of this delicate position of parents and children in the sentence of the law on maternity. When such serious events occur in the lives of new parents and children that a restraining order is applied, a lower part of it feels that the right to take orallofs is shifted from the parent to the other parent so that there is no interference in the care of a child in the hysterectomy. On the other hand, if such a situation exists that a fitting parent has both abandoned his violent behavior and has built up a relationship with the other parent and child after a restraining order so that trust has developed so that a parent can take care of his child, another part may feel that a parent who has gained the total right to take a birthaloval will be authorized to return the right to his own initiative. A lower section feels that only in this way and no one else can the lawgiver protect a parent and a child and ensure their right to take 12 months of birth leave. Now I'm going to step aside from the commission to discuss what happened earlier in reply. The author of the case, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson. The mention of the majority and the case of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son showed up to 8 mg. Count 9. it should be in those cases when it would not be expected that a parent would take a hysteria. I want to point 'em. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson says that if there has been violence between parties who are either married or in registered sexual relations when a child is born, parents will bring together the child's custody. It happens automatically in Iceland, according to the children's law. This means that a law that covers most things is not true because the violent parent, along with the violent parent, is in custody. This will be a major factor when they decide, such as not protecting a parent who has been so violent, the parent of a young child in infancy, that they feel that they are right in breaking the chance of a parent to get all 12 months with their child. Eight. Count 9. will be discussed in the correct custody of the parent and child to take 12 months of birthlofs if it is missed that a parent will not take care of his child during the first 24 months of his birth or during the first 24 months of a baby's arrival in a home on the first stage or in a permanent fetus. The bill discusses that such rights may allow for the request of an experienced parent to be moved by an unscrupulous parent who is not involved with the child on the basis of the findings of law - defying authorities or courts. A smaller portion of the world's council draws attention to the fact that the decision or judgment of a parent's association with his child rarely lies within six months of the birth of a child if there is a conflict of relationships between parents. Since such a process takes much longer within the administrative and judicial systems, 2 lower points feel that there is still a shortage of understanding of more parts and governments that returned this bill, at the highest level. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs, of how the system works in such cases. Since there is a regulations allowed for the Minister for further implementation of these laws, a lower part of the minister's office encourages a careful study of matters in the management system so that the employment agency can get a suitable management tool to respond when a child has only care and contact with another parent. Governments here need to ensure that children are fully pregnant with parents or parents, but they do not make it possible for a child who has only one parent, the one parent who can care for it to have less association with a parent because of a system defect. A smaller portion of it feels that it is urgent to increase the amount of birth paid from today's levels. The parent's exposure outside the labour market or to less than 25% employment ratio is only 83,233 k. in the month and year of full - time education, only 190,747 k. A lower portion of the figure suggests that such sums will lead to poor economic children living in the original state, and it is important that sums increase so that the birth rate for parent out of the work market will never be less than 100,000 dollars. in a month, and the age of birth to a full - time parent never lower than 205,000. per month. In the United States, we have proposed a change in budget to face this increase, a total of about 70 million each year, but it can be of considerable importance to these parents for this modest contribution. Other smaller items consider the need to make adjustments in the 23rd paragraph. The bill is about the calculation of payments from the birth ordinary funds. A smaller portion of 2 is important to meet the country's largest income-priority groups and therefore suggests that an 80% share of total pay does not achieve the minimum wage in the country, which will be 351,000 from January 1, 2021 according to the current labour agreements. The committee stated that two groups of people acted out of place when it comes to the use of maternity rights, i.e. The largest group of income, but also the most money - rich person, who can't support his family on 80% of the average total wage they earn. A lower share is estimated to be that by allowing an increase in percentage in all the lowest revenue groups, there are ways to prevent this group from releasing its birthworm rights due to loss of income in the litter. Therefore, a smaller 2nd part suggests that monthly allowances from the birth ordinary reserve should be taken except the same amount as the monthly total pay of the parent, if it is 351,000. or lower. If the monthly pay ranges from 351,000,438,750, monthly pay from the birth or holiday reserve should be followed, except for a total of 351,000. Decades of 1,◯3. mg 23rd par. that monthly payment from the birth ordinary reserve should be provided except 80% of the total average wage is thus exclusively carried out in the parent's total wage of more than 438,750 k. This is what I would like to encourage the few members of the council hall who are possibly listening and possibly studying the evidence and the changes here to consider whether it could possibly happen to them that they agree on one form of the change in government proposal to such an important matter. Protecting children and parents from violence and securing their rights does not cost money. It takes humanity and humanity and courage in political life to get out and once support the change from government opposition.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u32	A respectable president. I present a committee opinion with a change to the bill for a song on birth and parentorof, from the 3rd memory of the welfare committee. The Committee has discussed the bill of the social and child - care minister on the birth and parentorof. With the agreed bill, a new full law on birth and parentorof will be used, and at the same time will fall from the values of previous songs on birth and parentorof, no. 95/2000. It is a vast bill, one of the most powerful and most important things in the community systems when it comes to ensuring the well - being of children and families. The bill involves a number of changes and advances in relation to existing laws. I take note of the 3rd smaller things that celebrate the prolongation of the bill, the prolongation of the time that parents get to enjoy with their newborn baby. So this extension is long overdue, and the one standing here rejoices. Yet, there are several defects that a smaller portion of the bill feels may fail to achieve its aims. In particular, a smaller 3rd part is concerned that the processing of the bill has not been achieved sufficiently in order to ensure the right and well - being of children. Thus, in a group of social and child - care ministers, appointed to work on the total legal review, representatives of the trade unions and employees at the labour market, and no one who had the responsibility to protect the welfare and well - being of children. In view of Iceland's membership to the United Nations Children's Covenant and Article 3. The covenant that states that what is best for a child should always be based on decisions made for a child's benefit, it must be considered a concern that the social and child - care minister has not appointed in the committee to better protect the child's interests in the preparation of the bill. The workforce's issues and equality are of utmost importance, but in the case of extensive review, it is necessary to consider more closely how children's rights are guaranteed. In fact, it cannot be considered acceptable to have so much and important work done without the presence of the children at the table. I can't imagine why it wasn't done at the beginning and at the beginning of this total legal review. When discussing orcs, the discussion is especially to be based on and focused on what parental rights are involved, i.e. the right of parents to birthworm. Few talk about the child's right to associate with his parents. With reference to the children's covenant, it should be the child's own right to enjoy association with both parents. The child's needs for care during the first few months of life must therefore weigh more than the needs of the labour market. The bill is based on the thought that equality will be achieved by referring to a relatively high standard parental minimum and maximum parental right to holiday. However, it does not seem that this method is the best way to achieve that goal or whether other means could be more effective, e.g. by correcting what might be called an economic factor of the bill, i.e. reducing financial declines, thus reducing financial barriers involving the loss of income for those who intend to go to the grave. The thought of the revision is thus based on the belief that having rigid rules about the duration of each parent's length will take place almost equal in the administration of birthworm. Part 3 is not convinced that the bill will achieve that result, especially in the light of the limited changes made in the parents'birth and retirement guidelines. In particular, there are laws on birth strength, i.e. Minimum pay to parents in vacations, maximum payment regulations as well as the share of income. According to current laws, parents have a right to birthworm for up to four months because of birth, primary or permanent abortion. The right is not sellable. In addition, parents have a common right in two more months, which one parent may take as a whole or that may be divided by parents. This exchange was passed on to law by law No. 149/2019, when birthworm was extended from nine months to ten. We see that it is relatively recent since that change took place, and I hope that the next change will be brief. For that change, a switch was in a way that each parent was entitled to a three - month vacation, but three months was allowed to be divided between parents or a whole parent. With the bill, the whole period of the maternity is extended to 12 months and so should be welcomed. Regarding exchanges, it is suggested that a parent have the right to birthworm for up to six months each, but that one month will be handed over to the other parent. Thus, the minimum possible independence of parent's right is five months, and the highest possible right of the seven months. Advertisers have noted that equalizing rights to birthworm can help improve the status of women and increase the sexual equality in this country. This will also ensure that a child will be reunited with both parents in the first few months of life. Section 3 agrees with the importance of this and supports the change. However, in discussions about the right of parents to birth code and between parents, it must be borne in mind the importance of having their child's right to make decisions and perhaps even go back to the right of their parents. All decisions or measures taken by the competent authorities should be based on the best interests of children. That principle can be found in the above 3 g. the United Nations Children's Convention, which Iceland has legalized. So when we discuss what is mentioned in this bill as the right of parents, in fact, it must be watched with the child's eyes, i.e. the child's right to spend time with his parents during the first few months and years of life. So when steps are taken to increase equality, the child's success as a parent should not be affected on account of his or her behavior. Indeed, the arrangement laid out in the bill regarding the division of maternity rights can contribute to an increase in times of association in certain situations and even in most cases. Thus, when both parents use their own rights to the full, their division becomes evener. Thus, by reducing a parent's rights and increasing his or her rights, parents can be directed toward the recovery of birthworm exchanges. However, such a control decision will only be made based on a well - thought - out decision so that it will also strengthen the child's rights. The decision to increase control and flexibility involves a decline in the self - determination of families and will only be considered justified if the decline is certain to be necessary to achieve child's better interests. A third of my items is that it is important to protect and strengthen the individual parent's right to birthworm. At the same time, however, it is important to consider the many individuals who are unable to use their own rights. The fact is, people's circumstances are very different, and not all children may enjoy the 12 months that are recommended to become a birth - clinic. Thus, the arrangement proposed to be adopted in the bill is in itself inflexible and does not take into account the circumstances of all families. There are a number of examples in the arrangement suggested by the bill, where the child will enjoy less than 12 months, even seven. For example, there is a single parent whose other parents are limited in caring for the child's training without stipulation. Not applicable. On the other hand, there is a low - income family where people have limited access to income equivalents of 80% in the long term, or because one parent has not earned enough rights to pay money from a breeding reserve, including families where one parent has a low income and the other with income that exceeds the roof of the fund, such a loss of income may prove to be too much for the family. One parent's working situation might mean that he or she is not able to use her holiday rights, in addition to all the parents who may be in an inappropriate environment because of their limited opportunities. Do not be considered as the examples in which a parent cannot fully use 12 months because of the inflexibility found in the bill. But it is clear that despite the goals for improving equality, this inflexibility can affect the benefit of children. More important, those children who live in unstable social conditions, with a single parent, or in low income homes, are likely to be affected. Thus, less than 3 smaller things do not seem reasonable enough to establish the new arrangement in the way proposed. Sets a smaller 3rd substitution so that the switch between the birthor will be proportional to the birth and parentor law for the balance of change, No. 149/2019, i.e. that the shared time that parents can divide together will be as long as the time each parent has, but the total age of the maternity will be 12 months as suggested in the bill. Thus the right of the two parents is four months, and the common right is four months. Thus, this adjustment might be said to suggest the many - scale four, four, four arrangements. The parents who are out of the job market or who have less than 25% employment share are not entitled to pay from birth or holiday reserves. According to 1st mg. Twenty-six. However, they have the right to give birth. The wealth of birth strength according to the 38th grade. is defined as a minimum of 83,233 k, but to a full - time parent never less than 190,747 k. If the goal is to ensure parents that they have the right to have the right to birth holiday, it must be necessary to ensure that the sum of the money is so that everyone is able to survive it, or that the parent will be forced to earn it in another way, and even skip the intake of birth code, which is mentioned earlier. Incomes under a hundred thousand dollars. In a month, much less needs are needed for a baby's family with a baby. Sets a smaller 3th section to increase the minimum birth strength so that it reflects minimum wage according to general labour agreements. 23rd degree. discusses monthly payments made from the birth ordinary funds for an employee. According to this article, there are 80% of the average total and/or calculated remuneration of an employee or an independent person. When individuals have a 20% loss of income, they are affected by their ability to be left in birth leaves. This is especially true in families where there is little leftover money. If the family's income is just the cost, it says itself that it may have a profound inhibitory effect on the person's ability to go to birth - style. If this is best seen by the fact that using the right to birth holiday is remembered in the lowest income - it must be viewed, a respectable president - and that includes both mothers and fathers. Similarly, such impairment can adversely affect the aims of sexual equality, especially as this is a catalyst for people of the sex who have equal pay to take less than those who are born. Gender-bound pay differences today are about 10% and therefore women are more likely to take longer birthworm overdoses when resulting in less income reduction than men. Part 3 highlights the need to work toward the goal of sexual equality and to contribute to the equal application of obstetricals. Sets a smaller 3rd share so that the share ratio according to Article 23. increase from 80% to 100%. That's what's been going on during tonight's discussion called "the floor." Increasing the floor is essential in order to reduce the loss of this low difference, which is usually paid and then 80%, under normal circumstances. It's an economic instinct missing in a complete bill. It is also necessary to replace the maximum amount of payment from the birth of a stock fund, according to Article 24. which, according to this article, is a maximum of 600,000 K. The average wage of 2019 C.E. was according to Iceland's Habitat 754 yous. K. It is evident, therefore, that the parent's pay in maternity will begin to be impaired as soon as it reaches the average, and much earlier if the reference ratio according to the 23rd paragraph. is increased by 80%. If the goal is to ensure that children will be reunited with their parents in the first few months of life, it is clear that the conditions will be set aside to allow possible income in the maternity vacation to reflect at least the average wage. The negatives of economic incentives can greatly reduce the likelihood that more paid parents will be exposed to maternity. Sets a smaller 3rd item, so that the maximum amount of payment will be raised according to the average wage. This can also be especially practical in dealing with families where one member has a high income and the higher income, and it can increase the likelihood of a more balanced take of vacations in such cases. With the above suggestions, most economic incentives can be removed for individuals of one sex to take a birthworm too above other, which may be the goal of the law. A respectable president. It is due to the end of this committee opinion with a 3rd-part adjustment form. I'm going to go into the Mother's Orc. The review of the law and the work of a group responsible for the development of the bill seems to have been regarded as a medical factor for pregnancy. Medical factors of pregnancy cannot be overlooked and the gender mentioned. In most cases, the last month of pregnancy is physically difficult in one way or another. Thus, according to the reviewers, the importance of the law on maternity is a law for mothers' womb. In mothers' vacations, women's right to go to orlof from the 36th week of pregnancy without any delay in their rights after birth, which would be reduced from the time that a parent had with the baby and would have an effect on it. According to 2 mg. Section 8. has a parent's right to start obstetrically for up to one month before the scheduled date of birth, which is part of the birthworm. It must be considered an unfortunate arrangement in which this is true at the time of a child - as I entered here just before - with parents when the holiday begins before the birth of a child. In fact, it is far more common to have a disease certificate because of the many complications that can be followed even by normal pregnancy, thus allowing health care rather than cutting off their own holiday rights. On our welfare committee, the obstetrics merely mentioned that this was a health problem in a certain way. There is a negative thought relationship between a non - risk pregnancy woman who is expecting a healthy child but who has the conditions that we now know most of those who have children, which inevitably follow no matter how normal and healthy she is, because pregnancy can be extremely stressful to body and often to soul. As described, it is important for the health of pregnant women and their children to be able to go to Corlof at 36 weeks if they feel that they need it without compromising the time of the child and the parent after birth. Similarly, in most countries and countries, an informed obstetric surgeon noted that a woman is not even expected to work after 36 weeks of pregnancy. People simply do not think of procrastinating the woman because of these medical factors, however, that are not sick. Thus, they would get sufficient rest before they were born and could care for the baby after birth. Some mothers, especially those employed that involve physical activity, may have a great need for early vacations, but there are no resources in the bill. Not all of them may find it easy to accept disease licenses, so it will be safer to state their right to vacations from 36 weeks of gestation on law. Of course, those who did not feel that they needed such things could work on it as long as they wanted. Many neighboring countries of Iceland have already adopted Mother's Orlof and offered mothers such resources. It would be best for Iceland to do the same for the benefit of mothers and their children. And now I'm just gonna come in on it in that way. The one standing here has had four children. I have four children, and by the end of my pregnancy, I have been in a situation where I have insisted on working with others who are not at the end of pregnancy. That's pressure. There is a pressure on equality that is created because you want to be there and work as well and can stand as long as the others, stand up as long as they are up, or go as far as they are depending on how they work, but you just can't do it physically, and it often becomes obvious at the workplace or at school. This is an unpleasant situation for women. That's why it's so logical to take a mother's foot off. I'm disappointed that this is not part of a bill at the highest level. Governments. I'm going through the last words. The objective of equality is important, but must be met by measures that guarantee the time of the maximum separation between the child and the parent in the first few months of the child's life. Unflexible systems based on accurate management are unlikely to suit everyone's needs and are therefore unlikely to achieve a goal, except to some extent. More correct is the removal of the rules that lead to income reduction - once again, a powerful economic impulse with this that actually meets goals, we know that this would greatly help our goals - and ensure that families are equally well placed financially, regardless of the birth - spilling process. It would thus be the best solution to grant parents the full amount of freedom to pass birthal rights together with the arrangements they would make to make sure that a parent can use a birthorof without affecting their financial situation. Full freedom cannot be supported without the assured completion of the latter's possible deterioration from the present system. A third of my things are not prepared to take that risk really. There's an extra on time, which is good, which is a great and timely step, and we celebrate. There is an increase in the time of maternity and parental vacations, but it is not added to the important things that are economic factors. Similarly, the right of mothers to enter Orlof's home before birth has to be kept without cutting off the period of separation between the child and the mother after birth. In this way, the goal of equality can be met, the time of a child's being with his parents, and at the same time make sure that families do not fall outside the system and that all families will enjoy the same rights. It would then be good to monitor the progress and results of the changes made to the economic factors. This would contribute to the goal of further flexibility in the future if it became evident that they alone were able to balance the right of women and men in the workplace. As a result, the review of the Committee's opinion ends with a change in 3 smaller parts. We celebrate this extension, and that's a good thing, but we're not looking to this economic impulse. And there was a child's representative at the table at the full reexamination of the law. In a perfect world, we would call for complete flexibility, as shown in the opinion of the committee here, a perfect flexibility for parents to make this decision in the privacy of the home, not a control of the government over when, for how long, and who takes the battle to spend their time with a newborn child. But we don't live in a perfect world, unfortunately, so far. Since we are not in the vacorium, 3 less things are needed to stay in the arrangement that both parents have prescribed for a certain length of time and then have greater flexibility. Granted, there is some flexibility in the bill, but we do not think he is enough, and four, four, would meet our goals better. I'm the highest. Social and child-friendly minister to the further promotion of these activities, and there's time left to make more changes in this important community case. I will continue to contribute within that time. to reach the goals we want to see as a community in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter for a fine talk and a part of the discussion. I would particularly like to ask the senator in the final chapter of the talk about what she called "mother's Orlof," but I think that's where we're talking about the same thing. It is true that the senator is not really sick. However, it is very well known, at least In Iceland, expectant mothers receive proof of illness, whether for health reasons, relatively not defined, or because of some particular illness. This usually happens in the last few weeks and months before birth. I wondered: " When the senator thinks that the pregnancy vacation she mentions is pregnant, let's say, for example. that it began at week 36, something like that, would be comparable to the birthworm that would begin after birth, with the degree of impairment and other defects? Or do the senator feel that this pregnancy vacation has the same rights and the same amount of pay today as the rights of illness?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For the answer, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur! Yeah, what kind of impairment would that be? What I personally would like to see is that there would be no impairment. It wouldn't be like a sick vacation, so we'll take it off when we're sick. It would be rather related to the maternity of itself. But as indicated by the change proposal, we'd have a 3rd smaller section to make sure there's no impairment, especially on the floor as far as this is concerned. So no, in a perfect world, this would actually be one more month, but it would be for the one who carries the baby and gives birth and on these medical grounds. Hv. A senator spoke of proof. I think we know that most women who go to a doctor, whether a family doctor or another specialist, ask for proof during this time of pregnancy. In the vast majority of cases, they'll be able to write it out. That is why you feel that having the certificate usually associated is a huge time error in the atmosphere. Even if there's no problem with having proof, why do you need it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u35	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer is: Today, at work, the right to get sick or sick has no impairment. The person who accepts a medical license gets all of his pay. There is no 20% impairment, so, at any rate, in relation to the process of the maternity and if I fully understand the senator's adjustment proposal, it is likely to have something comparable to that of the birthworm and may also be the same as the birthworm, although the proposal may not be made directly. But anyway, I appreciate it so, at least in that position, that it's at least The economic advantage of the individual's family or the prospective parent to receive 100% of pay at this time through sick days rather than to receive less of their pay as if it were the value of birthworm that we would call a pregnancy holiday. On the other hand, I share my opinion with the senator that we have not come to a perfect place in equality. That's why I'm determined to make a couple of weeks in the exorbitant halls. I think the senator's concern and the rest of his equality is completely justified, so it's more reasonable to follow up the hall rather than back up a month.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u36	A respectable president. Now I can better understand the previous question. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, and we intend to respond in detail. Yes, indeed, if it were broken by the same arrangement as in the womb, it would again be an incentive for us to take a sick vacation rather than that. And that would be a negative conclusion. Then it should be orloft like sick and with the same conditions, i.e. the arrangement was a concern for the financial entrance of the home. It would be natural for a woman to have a restport too, yet she has the rights of illness. Hv. A senator was only included in the hall later in reply. Yes, yes, I understand that. I also want to use this opportunity only to include the conversations that have been on this subject. Most people agree on what is good about it. Sexual equality is good, flexibility is good, and I think everyone else understands each other's arguments in this matter in the final analysis. There are, however, very different approaches to goals, different Bible goals to reach them. The end point for the 3rd smaller portion is mainly the child, then the labour market. Of course, we always need to look at the bigger picture. But if they have to choose an exit point, we want it to be the child, and that is what our program is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. In fact, I was in a region similar to what I saw. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for this process of starting ordnance earlier and if it was not more correct that it was the way it is today, i.e. It's a sick thing to do. You see, I'm a little concerned about this, but I understand the injection, so to speak. I see, for example. that the midwives'society has spoken of women's right to vacations from week 36 or week 37 or something like that without cutting the birthworm itself. I personally would have feared that this alone could affect the equal status of the sexes in the labour market. At any rate, I knew that at the time I was healthy and that I could work through my pregnancy. Somehow I didn't want to prove that I had to disappear until the birthworm went into effect. I think we need to think more deeply. Of course, if the situation is too difficult for the woman to do her job, the employer is obliged to meet her whenever possible by changing the way at work and other matters. Now I think that many women receive a written medical rights during the last few weeks, but that is often part - time, too. Often, women reduce their jobs. Now I don't know what it is. A senator has taken a look at it, or whether the committee had some proportion of women, whether these numbers are above their heads, but I think it would be interesting to look at it before we went to legalize here some change in that subject. I'm afraid it might have some effect. Maybe I'm such a premeditated middle-aged woman, but at least I experience that there's a competition for employment progress. All of this can have a huge impact on it. It only has a tremendous impact on our culture at work, and that's why I'm afraid of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir for the answer. I see what you're doing. A senator means, and then we may even be back in a firm condition, with the permission of a president of the United States, at a certain ◯ lullaby. We would be trying to solve something where women in the labour market would lean on it, but with the release, women in the labour market would again be inclined. So it is often a bit complicated and often difficult to look at. I see what you're doing. A senator is referring to that, and I do not really have the answers. I don't think any of us are still completely involved. But I've thought that it turns to women of childbearing age, women of the workforce who have the biological capacity to multiply mankind. At certain ages, women usually reduce their childbearing potential. Men are born to 105 years of age. I wondered that if we're really still seeing women around a certain age in employment contracts but not on men for the same reason, although they're already taking a father's ordinary and parentsorof, and sometimes even sick children who have to take vacations for some reason, you might start thinking that the problem is just much bigger, more serious than you thought. But I'll agree with this experience, I'll connect with this experience. paritaprevir My Bryndís Harald's Haraldsdóttir over wanting to do 100%, can even do so, and doesn't want to be left hanging. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, all of us as a community need to work on this. This is a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u39	A respectable president. It's on the very basis of which I agree that the arrangement as it is today is better. At any rate, I would recommend that we examine it from more sides before moving in with some kind of holiday during the last few months of pregnancy. Hv. A senator made it clear that when we're discussing something that I'm going to allow me to call a luxury problem, we'd probably understand the ideal progress as a 12 months into maternity. Hv. A senator speaks to so - called four, four, four, a way, and I can quite understand the speech that is designed to help us increase our family's freedom. I understand that very well. Still, I find that often and often the words have come to mind that a woman is entitled to have more because she is walking with her baby and gives birth. I had a conversation with what? paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdótir in the 1st. and received an answer from her, which was a little in order that we would never equal this position, always so that the woman is pregnant, pregnant, carrying, and feeding, and somehow that would be the reason for the woman's right to a larger portion of her maternity. I have to say, I don't agree with this view when we have at least six months. I understand that, and that is, of course, the one who gives birth should be from at least the first two weeks. For the first two weeks, even up to a month, it's just an accepted bedside time. But I find it a little difficult to accept that the discussion is beginning to focus on the mother's having more right. Then I wondered, " What are we saying to fathers today? ' Are they not fully capable of caring for a child, ranging from six months of age? In fact, from birth, it is the breast milk and breast milk that only separates us from these substances. But maybe if it was. A senator wanted to establish only whether we are talking about the freedom of the family or about the increased rights of women. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for responding. Then again, what I did in my first reply to an answer is that it's the opposite approach. The beginning point of the discussion is different between me and the question. A senator and a what. Councilmen. It is seen from women's labour markets and from their job position. All of us wholeheartedly agree that it is extremely important to fix and correct all the things that result in women leaning on them. It is completely absurd that in 2020, we have to spend all this character on these things when the sexes in a workforce are meant to be equal, of course. All genders have as much to offer as coming to the table. Then we're back to the entry point. We, in my third part, want to get this out of the child's needs and that if you have to choose, your child's interests get more benefit from the doubt than the parent's interests and much less the labour market, although I realize it's all connected. If we take an example of a child in which only the mother or only the father has the opportunity to take a baby's womb but the other parent doesn't have it, the fact is that the child would have less time with a parent and that there would be some economic incentives to pay for it. We're talking about getting the child at the beginning of his life less time with his parent because we're trying to correct the big movie, which also has to be corrected. [[The president calls.]] It's basically just a political foundation. [[The president calls.]] And then the thing is to bridge the gap. [[The president calls.]] The gap needs to be bridged too, so this time must be extended. It's not over yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u41	A respectable president. We're talking about the bill for the song on birth and parentorof. I hereby recommend a change-in form of my 4th welfare committee. The primary change is instead of a $137,632 coin. of 3 mg. 24th par. Arrogant 190,747 kr. and instead of the amount 83,233 k. of 1 mg. Thirty-eight. Ar: 190,747 kr. 83,233 k. ... isa ridiculously low number. I made it fun of me to go into the workforce's web. I found a calculator there, and I entered a set of criteria. There was no surprise to me, but, yes, in many respects. What came out of that search was this conclusion: 80,341K. I put my eyes in something in the corner of the right side of the page. I thought to myself: The computer system of the employment agency is so perfect that it has artificial intelligence, because it stood at the right corner of the page. I'm not surprised if there's any help, when some people are going to feed and have 80,371K. a month on maternity leave, so I decided to press for help and see if there is any chance that I could raise the amount. No, the only thing that came up was how much of the person's tax card wanted to use. There was the hope that there would be a direct misunderstanding; it would not be possible to have such a small amount. The many visitors who visited the committee in connection with this matter agreed that they needed some adjustments. But what struck me was a call from a certain group to raise the maximum number, 600,000 a.m. Of course, these numbers are amazing, like 137,000 times. And eight thousand years. It's kind of amazing that at the same time, we're talking about 80% of the pay involved. Some wanted to take 600,000. By 800,900,000 a.m. and they were so pleased with it, saying, "Yes, let's raise these things first so that they can reach the average of the ones just under 780,000 to get close to 800,000 bucks." But to increase the minimum? No, they weren't worried about that. But I'm really worried about it because I say for my part to feed a baby and take care of it and do everything that needs to be done with 80,000 bucks. In a month and no other income I think is absolutely out of the question. I'm sorry. Then I worry that this enormous amount of money is simply a matter of choosing to feed the baby or not. That's what's gonna happen. Can the child care for the child, feed him, or must she give it to him? Does she have to stop the pregnancy and have a pregnancy break? Such questions are not to be answered. We are to make sure that, in effect, we are under obligation to make sure that the women who want to bear children can do so without any financial concerns. And what encourages us to see that this is the case is the fact that the rate of birth in Iceland has been reduced, it has never been lower. We must realize that in 2009 an average of 2.2 children per woman were included. Today, it's 1.7 children, so we'll see where they're headed. The birth rate was at the highest level in this country, but since 2009, when she was about 2.2 children per woman, to 1.7 children on average 2019, according to a report. It also states that Sweden has a mean birth rate of 1.76 children and 1.72 Denmark. Then there's the fact that these immigrants are now the people who maintain a renewal of people in the North. We must also understand if we go to the EU average that the frequency is 1.5, which is very low. It tells us that the population does not survive, so we reduce our numbers. At the same time, we are setting up barriers, making it possible for those who want and are in a position to start giving birth to a baby on certain thresholds. It was another thing that struck me when I heard the evidence for a switch in months of maternity. First there was a man who divided six and six months, and then one and one who could come in with certain conditions. However, as we now know, as the Commission's list of parts indicates, there are six months and six months between parents, but one month and two weeks after that, one month. So in itself, the ratio is seven and a half, four and a half, something like that, at most. I would never let that stop my approval of this bill. But what may have hit me the most was what a certain person told me about a young couple who were going to have a baby. They did not intend to register with the same household, to register at their home. The purpose of this was for the girl who was going to feed her baby for the entire 12 months. Why? For financial reasons, yes. You know, there should be some kind of alarm call when you hear one of these. Then we're doing something wrong. I just say, even if there was only one pair in this situation, we wouldn't be doing things right. In this context, I remember that fraud was being investigated in the social security system at the time. It turned out that the real fraud was in order for people to register at home or from living together in order to obtain child support and many compensations to try to save themselves. It was after a crash. I called it self-preservation, it's just to try and survive. My family was just trying to get by. In such a situation, no one is to be, especially those who are about to start homes and have children. Above all, we must and should trust their parents. We should trust them with what they want to do. In the perfect world, I would say that it was normal for a woman to have nine months, and then the man had a right in three or four months. I only say that because the woman is breast-feeding. We males can't do that. That's absolutely impossible. As a result, after six months, even after seven and a half months, which will be on this bill, if it goes through - it's better than what you've heard, that some just want to fix six and six months. I think I'm doomed from the beginning. It would be far closer to having encouragement, and it would be far easier not to share, for example. 80% of the pay is kept at 100%. Then there is the figure today of 80,000. and goes up to 83,000 taps. If we get that number up to 190,000 bucks. - We'd make sure this group gets them at least 80% right, I think I can say, from the lowest pensions in the system. It's not that much money. I'd say it's a great first step. This may cost some 2,200 to 4,400 million. This would be to ensure that, at any rate, the person who is about to give birth would rely on a child and be in a much better position financially than if he had 80,000 or the 83,000 pieces. which is up in the bill, which, of course, is too low, that says itself. It's amazing that we're going to have such low numbers. When I saw those figures, I was a little embarrassed that they had gone public. We have $350,000. Minimum wage. On TV tonight, two children spoke to a mother, and she has 220,000 bucks. per month. And once she's paid rent, there's about 100,000 bucks. left. And when she's paid all her bills, she thanks for having food for her family for the first week of the month. It shows us that the numbers we have here don't make sense. We cannot and must not punish a young woman or parents who are beginning to have children because they have left school for some reason, lost unemployment, and have gone to social benefits. They are in the financial position that these 83,000 cases are given. We can't have it like this, and we shouldn't, because we have to make sure that those who are thinking about having a baby and that they're going to start a home completely, that they won't have to take any hasty decisions based on their financial situation. You realize that in maternity vacations there may be very high amounts, but in this case it is money that comes in. It is money that we should see to it that everyone gets so that they can be financially secure because it is money that goes back much. I think somehow we're about to become children in this context. We're defending the children of the poor. They need to think, " Wait, should I have the baby? ' Can I afford it? What am I supposed to do? And then there are the others who may be in a job market, have a good salary, they don't have to think about it. There's the sky and sea between us, which should not be so difficult to bridge because we're not talking about the huge amount if we just take the entire government's budget. We are now, for example. to ask billions of dollars in Covid rescue operations, but we tell this bill about our children that we cannot afford to use 80,000 k. to 190,000 k, which should be from 80,000 U.S. up to 350,000, which is a minimum wage. In itself, no one should have to go to a hysteria and have less than 350,000 dollars. That is not a high amount - the amount that pays often - for both the child and the parent. In some cases, we have come to the point where the person does not have to make the terrible decision not to have the baby because he does not have the financial ability to have it. Other than that, it's cool. The birthworm is being extended for a year. That's cool. It has been shown that the four, four, and four months could be divided. I was quite satisfied with that in the beginning. That was the first thing I could think of, four, four, four. But I wouldn't let it stop me from voting with the bill. The exchange is not what bothers me, not as much as the financial situation described in this bill, because by converting it from 80,000 k. of 190,000. Perhaps we are talking about 200 to 4,400 million dollars. And if we're gonna take this up to 350,000. At a minimum, we may be talking about a hundred and twenty-two billion dollars. Let's put it in context with what I said at the outset, lower birth rates, and let's at least have some motivation. We should be more motivated to have children than keep them in the other direction, that they do not do so because of their financial situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u42	Mr. President. We'll discuss the whole set of laws on birth and parent's course. I'm going to focus on the main subject of the bill that prolongs the hysteria, and especially on its division between parents, the part that was involved in the political process of the governing body during the last days. This great bill is a product of work that began in September 2018, then the social and child-relevant ministers appointed a team to re-vise the whole law on birth and parentorof. Among them were local agents from the Allied Union of Iceland, the Coalition of Colleges, BSRB, the Union of Iceland, Social Affairs, Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, the Organization for Professional Affairs. The role of the group was to revise the whole family's birth / parentorum and work on the bill for a new overall law in which 20 years have passed since the law of law. I think it's important to keep it in place. During the past two decades, our history of maternity is a history of progress. True, many steps have been taken, but all have been in the right direction. For the law set up in 2000, and not only did Iceland shoot into modern times but it was the future that her mothers took only the birthworm, which had ended six months, and in fact not all mothers, it was not even so good. In 2001, my wife and I became mothers when I gave birth to our twin daughters. I was then studying, and the other mother had no right. It was the vision and favor of her employer, Styrmir Gunnarsson's son, then editor of the Morning Journal, who made it possible for my wife, the mother of newborn twins, to stay home with our children for the first few months. Let's move closer to modern times, closer to better times. The steps that have been taken in the last few years toward the equation between parents show black on whites that fathers have new independent rights, different degrees, but little or none of the time parents can divide. Statistics simply speak for themselves. In August 2018, the worm stood in its own rights for three months, and then there were three months of freedom, and now I'm going to give a little credit because, as I come to later, it's no liberty under certain circumstances. You see, of the more than 1,600 fathers who used at least Of course, some of their three - month independence rights were only 137 using common rights. If the birth holiday reserve continues, it shows that that that that year men of Orlof took an average of 81 days and an average of 183 days. That was close to 100 days. Women used not only in common months but also in the same way today. These are the facts. Mr. President. It should be kept to say that 12 months of maternity was adopted here each year and arranged in two steps, first with an increase to ten months that went into effect at the beginning of this year, and then 12 months will take effect at the start of the next year. It is a cause for rejoicing. What survived about a year ago was the switch where parents'independence right to holiday is five months called five, two, five, five, actually occurring under experience as five months and seven months. This shift stood in the conservative part of the council and in the conservative part of the Continent. Now we're back here again, discussing it from the original motions. Again, the conservatives of the government have shown their strength, and again the exchange of five, two, as a reality, according to all the details of five and seven, is stopping that case with the conservative arm. In the modified section's proposals, it is called compromise to go back from this exchange to 4.5 and 7.5 or whether we call it - and now I'm completely confused in this counting mode - returning from one month to a so - called optional month to a six - week period. This is the compromise because at some point during the period, it was threatened that the elements here were totally to take over and cross to four, four, four, i.e. reduction of independence to four months. It's a compromise, and let's be clear that this is not necessarily a compromise of the council, it's a compromise within the governments. There is a greater part of the government that talks about compromise among the government groups while the rest of us are sitting and looking at them in a freak. The experience then shows that it is the incomeier parent who, in over 90% of cases, will not be using the common rights. I'm really sorry about this, and I'm sorry that equalities such as VG and filibusters didn't work out. I'm sorry to talk about the freedom of choice in word, the cost of freedom of choice, the real freedom of choice, and the fact that showyness worked. The real freedom of choice came here, the freedom of choice that is achieved by real equality. The conservative views that are winning a final victory, if dead bodies, include the illusion that only the exchange of the birthor is free, so that this state can be free, that a perfect parent's choice of how the maternity is divided must mean perfect freedom. As we can see when we look into the facts, it's an illusion. It is empty to talk about freedom of choice and real flexibility when equality is not reached. It's empty business to talk about real freedom here when the rules of the game involve a discrepancy. A father who is the color of a hard-on to work when he shows interest in going to a baby's womb that he doesn't have to wear has no real choice. The worst inheritance of our 50 years of tradition, however, is when the words of the conservative force cross into the nonsense that children are in infancy better paid off with their mothers than with their fathers. Research shows that children are unmistakably the best, and their interests are best guaranteed when both parents share consistently and actively in their upbringing from infancy. Well, it's our duty to do what's best for the children. The fact is, for 50 years, maternity was legally bound to women, and with that central control of governments, women were intended to be at home with young children but men should be at work. Today we know better, and we want something else, but it takes effort to wind down from the half century C.E. Freedom of choice is an illusion as long as social pressure is high and is based on the historical media of the State. I'm going to read from the account of the Association of Business Life, which supports the individual rights of parents, to birthworm for up to six months, and to support the parent's permission to hand over one month of his own rights to the other parent, to support the bill as it is presented without the permission of the compromise proposal of the more part, by permission of the president: The best way to achieve the goal of the law is to provide a child with both parents and to allow parents to coordinate family and employment. And further: The balanced exchange of parents with birthworm contributes to equal equality in an Icelandic labour market. - I'd like to repeat this, Mr. President: The equal exchange between parents'birth norms contributes to equal equality in an Icelandic labour market. Mr. President. A number of those who sent in reviews of the case and met with the welfare committee pointed out that raising the payment of the stocks was necessary, including to achieve the goal of both parents taking advantage of their right to birth vacations and the right to spend time with both parents. Sadly, the reason for this is simple, sexual differences in pay. Understandably, the busier parent, who is much more often the father when his parents are straight, is less likely to take an optional part of his birthum. It is a well - known fact that the economic situation of households is heavy on decision making, including this one. High pay increases the likelihood that the busier parent fully exploits his own rights and also takes part in the joint court. In view of the facts of sex pay, higher maternity payments would likely encourage more fathers to take longer birthworm, which would contribute to a more balanced position between men and women in the labour market and in homes and to ensure the right of children to enjoy together with both parents. The higher pay from the birthed oralfs fund compensates for both points indicated. Short - term rights ensures a lower income loss for parents in the maternity room and is longer independent of the rights, allowing both parents to be able to make equal use of the rights. I support true freedom of choice in most areas. That is why, along with my associates in Reunion, I have proposed a new proposal that, if agreed, is an important and strong step toward promoting real equality and the parents'real freedom of choice on the taking of maternity. The suggestion is simple. It means that the maximum amount of payment from a birthed ordinary reserve will be raised from 600,000 k. of 800,000. per month. It is based on the average total wage of a full - time man of over 150,000 dollars. more than the average women's pay for it. This increase will improve the position of all new parents and provide children with increased association with both parents. In addition, I have suggested that the minimum level of payment from a feeding stock be raised from over 83,000 k. of less than 125,000. In this way, we will give our children more material support, for there is really no support for such a low level of minimum money as the highest. Ministers of Social Affairs and Child Affairs suggest that they do their bill. The cost of these changes would be just over 1.2 billion, calculated from the number of born children in recent years. In particular, the estimated cost increase of 1.2 billion would be if the maximum pay would be raised from 600,000 to 800,000. That plan will take into account the real facts of previous years regarding remuneration, the number of days that parents take, and the exchange of the worm between them. If the minimum pay or birth intensity of parents outside the labour market and of those with a ratio below 25% would be increased from 83,000 k. In 124,850, the estimated cost would be 106 million. K. That plan will consider a number of parents who were born with birth powers because of babies born in 2018. It's certainly quite a bit of money, though it has to be said at the moment, so now I'm only going to go to other psalms, that after the many matters that have been presented here recently to improve the status of the people associated with the Korean epidemic, the billions have become quite numerous. But this is where we're thinking for a long time. This issue is not connected to the Korean epidemic. We're thinking this for a long time. In view of this, it is not the sum that all depends on it, not so much that it cannot be spent to correct the situation. This is an important step, indeed, necessary, in order to ensure true freedom of choice, not the virtual freedom that the elements call for, but the real freedom of choice. This is the right step toward creating the situation that parents'right to care for their child is equal, that a child's right to enjoy together with both parents is secure. This is a right step toward ensuring that the individual rights are respected, that no one, not an employer, not a financial concern, not an old out - of - date cow, none of this, takes from a person, any of the people he is, the right to use a valuable maternity time with his child. Mr. President. The rest of this matter is supported by our restoration. However, we reject the adjustment that the greater part has provided for the final steps. It's a step back in the equal struggle. It does not matter whether the step is large or small. What matters is that this is a step in the wrong direction. This is a step back, it's a setback. This setback, however, will be less recent, even further diluted, even hopefully, a proposal will be proposed to bring up the maximum rent and minimum rent approved. I hope that no matter where or where they stand, they'll look forward to equalism.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u43	Mr. President. I'd like to introduce some of the things that we in the Central Group focus on in connection with this bill and then, at the same time, criticize to some extent the views presented in a committee list of more parts and his proposals, or, in particular, what is missing in my opinion, in terms of the change-offs of more parts. The welfare committee. Of course, it is a strange situation to find children in the middle of a labour market plan, as is suggested in this matter. The evidence is certainly clear that the birthworm is transferred from ten months to ten months, and we in the central category support it, but the great custody in terms of binding the proportion of the orlofs to each parent is something we in the Middle East are not interested in. We believe that freedom should be in place for parents to be fully divided from birth to birth. After all, the right of a child's birth must, of course, be based on its interests. We have other ways to work on a labour market if you want to, but we in the middle category think that the child's interests should be first, second and third at the time when it comes to determining what these rules are designed. In this regard, we feel that the wise thing to do is that parents are trusted to make the 12 months that they consider best for the family, for the child, and for its development and prosperity. I'd like to briefly start with a new proposal made by our members of the Central Health Committee, please. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Colbrow Aarnadótir, had this bill on birth and parent'sor of guaranteeing that parents will be guaranteed a common right to a 12-month birth holiday that they can share with them over a period of 24 months. The adjustment that we make has the goal of making it best for the child. Because it has been compared to a soccer play, talking about four, four, six, six, five, two, zero, all 12 months of free communication between parents. The second thing that we propose and consider to be extremely important is that the length of the oven will be 24 months, not 18 as the bill assumes. Of course, circumstances vary in every household. We all know the discussion of problems when it comes to daycare. We in the Middle East simply don't think it's wise to narrow this option so much in terms of the time frame that this 12-month period will have to be fully used over an 18-month period. We think it's wise to look into a period of 24 months, and we suggest that we make adjustments. Hv. paritaprevir At the same time, Dr. Árnadóttir Kolbönnadóttir criticize the fact that the bill goes from picking up a parent to taking six months within this frame of time, but each parent is allowed to hand over one month. The changes in the majority of them now show that this one month should be extended to six weeks. This all sounds like a kind of horse wedding or a atonement or a cease - fire, or what we call it, between the government groups that clearly see these things with different eyes. In this context, I'd like to take a really great article as representing the Independence Party on a welfare committee, huh? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, wrote on the index.is yesterday, saying, by permission of president: ▪ Liberty carries responsibility, but you can have no responsibility unless someone trusts you. The democratic involvement of young people and future generations is often mentioned during contending days. The suggestions given to the Council are not to be heard by young people who will live with these laws, those who do not trust, and who are not respected for having different values for family and equality than older generations who speak for this bill and want to know the younger ones. I just want to thank you. paritaprevir In his article on the subject, Vilhjálmur the Árnason for this excellent text. Here we go. At the same time, a member of a discussion about the division of the birthor into the present system. Where there are nine months, it is called three, three, three months apart from each parent and three months to be arranged. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason calls the motion four, four, which would really be just one month of each of these forms according to the 12-month system, which hopefully takes over for the year. That would be called four, four, four, i.e. Four months for each parent and four months for free provision. But the proposal, as it lies in the highest order, can be said. Minister, 10 o'clock, 2 o'clock. It seems that it was settled by then. A greater part of the welfare committee is to implement it at the end as nine, three, to be expected four and a half, four and a half, three. We in the Middle East are just against this kind of nonsense. We want this to be simple and clear and that the child's interests are in top priority. Therefore, we recommend that the price of the twelve, zero, as it were, be made free for all 12 months. You should mention that in reviews, including From the surgeon general, the child's, Iceland's midwives, Iceland's Psychological Association, and from countless younger prospective parents, there has been a clear explanation of increasing flexibility. I think we should listen to these views and reduce the prescientism we see here. When we examine the data, we find that minimum and maximum pay is really much more important than this exchange of how parents use their rights to birthworm. We can see that in the months when there are free distributions under the present system. I think we should focus on these factors if the goal is to achieve labour - market views. I just reiterate that we should reduce the prescientism that shines through returning such a high ratio to the rights of each parent. According to the surgeon general's review, other northern nations have far more flexibility in their birth and parental law than in this bill. Again, we find ourselves in the same place as with so many other cases in recent years, including one debate that we will discuss in the final talk tomorrow, that it is as if we are in some race to let the custody of one's mind dominate and control the great number that takes on parenthood and grows into it each year. This is what I wanted to say about the two bills in the big picture. I'd like to celebrate especially one point that's fixed in this bill. It is the legal step that takes place for single parents, as stated in the leading article of the greater section by permission of presidents: In view of the greater part, there is an important legal compensation for single parents, as these cases allowing one parent to receive the whole maternity rights to be extended from the current law. The right of a child to enjoy up to 12 months of birth ordinarily, when only one parent can use her right to take a birth Oralfs is thus guaranteed. I'd like to celebrate this in particular, and only to think that there's being a better way to bring the present rule-work in this regard. I just want to come back to what is involved in parental expeditation, as stated in the leading list of pages, by permission of presidents: However, in order to meet views on increasing flexibility and parental arrangements, the greater part suggests that a parent will be allowed to give up up to six weeks of her own right to the other parent. This is exactly a return from what is now available in a practical way. Although the total number of months provided are from ten to 12 years, the total number available between parents in free choice - now I am speaking proportionally - continuing three months. In the event that our transition to the Central Party would be so severe that tomorrow, with full freedom, we would have a minimum of four, four, four systems bound to each parent for four months, and four months for free. Therefore, I would like to declare my great disappointment that there is no longer any adjustment, as had been suggested, and I imagined that I would be able to support myself if our proposal in the Middle Order, which goes further, would be dropped tomorrow. But it doesn't seem to be, and now it's like sometimes it's like when you have to make a deal from right to left over the middle. At that time, it often becomes a fear - inspiring mold. That seems to have occurred in this case. Finally, I want to reiterate our viewpoint that the child's interests should always be in the utmost priority in this matter. In the Middle East, we will make some adjustments tomorrow, which assume that parents have every right to make the 12 months apart as each family fits. At the same time, we will suggest that the birthmark is scheduled within 24 months, not for 18 months, as arranged in the bill. I'll do it for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u44	A respectable president. I'm gonna leave something on a case or something. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son, he claims that the right to birth power and birthworm is an 18-month-old bill and that the Central Party proposes it to 24 months of age. Now I think we're gonna do it. A senator needs to read it only again because in the preparation of the preparatory group 18 months were proposed, so the bill was changed to 24 months. I just want to ask you what. A senator whether this is just a misunderstanding or if he needs to read it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u45	A respectable president. That may be, and thank you. A senator resists. I need to look at this in particular, but I see that in our new proposal here at 1st. Twenty-seven. says, with permission of the president: ▪ The right to birth strength due to birth begins at the birth of the child and falls when the child reaches 24 months of age. It may have been there that I misread and was looking forward to the proposal as it was in the preparatory group report, so I might well have a problem with the 24-month box and the general rights involved in my misunderstanding. But that's what I'm going to do in particular. But as I'm saying, 24 months' proposal is here, 26 and 27. With us, but I'm gonna take a special look and thank you very much. A senator for this indication, of course, but only to stress that the main point of our views is that the 12 months will be fully replaced by the parents'will.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-41.u46	A respectable president. The subject of tonight's discussion, as well as the appearance of night, is at the same time basic legislation for support of parents and basic legislation on sexual equality. The bill that originally appeared from the highest. The social and child - care minister was in this very spirit, a long-time extension of holiday for 12 months, which is positive and requires steps. The bill thus reflected progressive equality. But since then, many things have happened, and the lines of conflict have become very clear, and I must admit that I am disappointed to have observed and listened to inside this hall and on the marches of the council and that only 20 years after the breakthrough law of maternity was accepted, we are really reasoning as fundamentally as whether parents should be right or wrong, hearing in this room that there is no need, that there is people here who believe that a transferred birthor means the same thing as freedom. This is a big misunderstanding and completely ignores the basic fact that individuals have different realities, different conditions, and different circumstances, and of course there are groups at a council that believe that this is the reality. I have to say, it's interesting on the day of the highest. The prime minister welcomed new equality, so here we are, in this child's affairs, i.e. On the switch between birthorfs. The exchange is a fundamental factor for sexual equality and the position of the sexes in the labour market, the sex status inside the homes, the sex status of the sexes as parents. I'd like to mention that the position of young women in the labour market is what she is in Iceland today because, in Iceland, she has been a targeted legal entity to promote the equality and status of young men is the one she is because of the legislation like this. It was a time when fathers were simply not in the picture regarding their own roles as parents in homes, which have influenced their case, e.g. In custody, all of this goes hand to hand. I view this day's equality laws as empty if we accepted such suggestions as those that the 12-month birth stock would be tested without our giving our parents the right to their own rights. I'm on this one. I liked it more in the original form than I am now, and I'm opposed to the changes made there. Iceland is at the top of the World Economic Council's list of gender equality. We've been doing this for over a decade, and that's what we can and should be proud of. But, of course, this situation can lead to that, and it seems to me that it leads to some here that believe that we're in port for gender equality, and that we're hearing, as I say, here tonight in the discussion, not just from traditional voices, but from representatives of the most incredible categories. In this regard, I think we should stop and ask simply, "What is the position of the equal sexes in Iceland? Because despite the success of gender equality, all of us know that we are a nation who has had a wife as president once, a woman as prime minister twice in all our history, and yet has never happened that the proportion of the sex is equal at the assembly. Maybe it's a coincidence. Because of sex rates in courts and courts, women have always been in trouble, and that is why a recent order of two women in the Supreme Court is a major concern. Sexual exchange is and has been a problem in Iceland as well as in other parts of the world. The executives in companies are in a large part of men, although we have sexuality laws. Women haven't made it to the top, though. Indeed, the situation in Iceland in equality is very good and good in comparison with other countries. But when we break the stage, e.g. In terms of the job market status and the level of pay, gender equality has not been reached. That is why it is so important to hold firmly to granting both parents the right to take a birthday vacation. Of course, we're quite close on this bill, and that in itself and of course is joyous. I would have liked to see us go further there. You can't forget that Iceland's success in equality was not just achieved over time. Time hasn't led us here either, we've achieved that success through a struggle, and there I think the legislatator can give himself a hand by acknowledging that part of the success that Iceland boasts from progressive legislation. We have a progressive maternity law, a progressive law on equally pay-authorization, a law on sexual fertilization in governments. We are aware of the significance of day - to - day care. All this order of action has the same purpose as its goal: to create an equal society. In view of this, we should look at the birthworm bill now handled by the Allied Council, this legislation that prolongs the birthworm of parents and guarantees both parents their right to holiday rights in the case of two parents. Today, 20 years have passed since the current birth and parental law were passed, and this law assured fathers for the first time, three months of birthal rights. The laws were a significant penance for men and included recognition of the vital role of those who had been missing from the Lawgiver. That was 20 years ago, and I began to study what the text looked like at the time. Although it is not a long time for 20 years in itself, it is interesting to note that 20 years ago, this law did not reach parents of the same sex. Two mothers did not have a common birthlord, and that is, I must admit, an amazing thought today. Since the entire North countries have brought births to parents 12 months, this change is both timely and very positive. Iceland has run the train in this respect. In Sweden, there are actually 15 or 16 months of maternity, and I don't remember if it is, and to me, it should be the long - term goal, that the parents whom they wish could have more birthlord than 12 months. This includes support for children and healthy family politics, in my opinion. But it is a future mouse, and not a timely discussion, and it is not realistic based on our economic situation today. Now, however, it is important that the largest income will be raised because I believe it, and it now supports data, that if families were to receive better support, most parents would want to make full use of the birthworm they receive. The maximum pay today is 65% of the total male university - education specialists, while 80% of the female totals in the same category. It is important to increase the level of income so that families do not suffer a major loss in making the right use of it. Of course, it is tormented that a woman puts more emphasis on the reality that the average total male wage is often higher than that of women. Could it be that those and those who point out that the birthworm should be fully handed up, simply because it costs my family less to take a longer birth rate, at the cost of a parent's taking the orlof, the price of the income - greater? In order for legislation to reach its goal, the income supply must grow to a higher level so that families can see their way of taking full birth leave. Of course, it is also in the interests of children that parents do not drop a portion of their birthworm. Thus, I feel that the normal goal of supporting my parents, better with the children, is to increase the income peak, which would at the same time support the bill's equality goal of earning more money. In that respect, the bill is in my mind a disappointment. Engaging this and offering a suggestion to raise the level of income so that the bill achieves better parental support during the holiday season and helps parents to take the full course and prevent or reduce loss of income - of course, we must be on this roof, but it's bad that we're at the point where we're simply too low - and make sure that fathers and mothers alike take Corlof, which is why we want to see a maximum of 600K. of 800,000. and that your birth strength will be increased, as the adjustment suggests. The premise of the maternity graffiti was, and is still, that the right to pay a baby vacation is an individual right. In this way, the approach is also that a child with two parents has the right to enjoy a social gathering with both of them in the first few months of life. Research also shows that it is for the child's benefit. Thus, the rights of the child's rights and the right of the parents to take holiday are equal. But I would, in that relationship, because here I am always talking about both parents, also come into my mind that I feel very positive, and, in fact, absolutely fundamental, to see that the bill is coming to meet the parents standing alone, most often the mothers of the knowledge at this point, that a parent can have a 12-month pregnancy course. I find it extremely important and positive to see this, and all of us must rejoice. Of course, parents who are alone, usually closer to mothers, are in the position of enjoying a less - than - priced dresser in this regard. I am very pleased with this change, and it has a huge significance, a real meaning. I mentioned that the essentials of the birthworm were at one time and that the right to pay is an individual right, and the ideologies there are that a child should be right in those situations where two parents are together in the first few months of life. This is the right of a child as well as a parent, but this individual rights does not only support family, child, and parents as a unit, because this point is, in fact, the most basic to what I mentioned at the outset, that it is, together with being family law, equal law. This point is fundamental to the gender equality, to balance the workforce, to domestic equality, and to bring up our children with normal equality as early as the first few months of life, and to assume that mothers and fathers alike are expected to disappear for a period of time from labor markets for birth Schools, that employees assume that employers assume, that it is reasonable to assume that women and men and women of childbearing are disfellowshipped for a time because they intend to take advantage of the pregnancy code. When a law on maternity was passed 20 years ago in Iceland for advanced legislation, and that makes us proud, and that makes me very proud. It was framed by a particular political bitch, to which other nations then looked. I think it's important to keep it in mind in the discussion now about this bill and that we're looking at it, when we're dealing with this bill, that we're looking at a broad picture of family setting and covering a picture of social equality and that we're reminded that Iceland's success in equality was achieved by progressive measures and legislation on promoting, securing, and defending equality. After 20 years, Iceland's status on equality simply isn't that it's the right or the time to eliminate parental right to birthworm rights, not at all. It would likely cause the negative effect of fathers taking this holiday, and getting to take it, to a lesser degree. It would weaken the part of a mother in a job market, it would likely increase the sex pay -- it would violate all research if it did not result - and it would impair the right of children to be reunited with both parents during the first few months of their life. These are the ones we know from the past, and we should not want to go there. Instead, I would have thought that after 20 years of success with legislation, we should now dare take the step to the full, to bring each parent to the right level. It's me, I have to admit, disappointed it isn't. At the same time, it is disappointing not to stand to raise the level of income. These two, extensions of holiday and higher income targets must be met in order for legislation to be successful for parents, in order to protect children's interests, and in order to achieve basic goals for sexual equality. To tell them, I'm here rejoicing that the orc is now being extended to 12 months, and in the context of the section we can be glad that we are not looking forward to the big, serious setback that some ideas have led to, the talk of four, four, four. I would have liked to see the extraction so that we had taken the step to the full, but I will support this.
