ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u1	The President of the United States says: I have decided, according to the proposal of the prime minister, that the Council shall meet at the subsequent meeting on Thursday, August 27, 2020. 10:30. All units, August 19th, 2020. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I offer the highest. President and w. All council members welcome continued meetings at the 150th legislature, such as the continuation of a council meeting at the end of June.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u2	Thank you very much. Her minister offers good words and immediately offers. Allied members welcome to the meeting of the Council of 150th, the General Assembly of Congress as well as to greet the staff of the Generals, and I thank them for a great deal of work in preparing this convention under unusual circumstances. It's a spring convergence that the Senate will last approximately one week. Its main mission is to deal with the change in financial policy for 2018 and share loans as well as those related to the Korean epidemic, and it is urgent to be paid now. Clearly, the committee's work, especially the budget and welfare committees, is going to be on a special day next week, expected on Monday. It is my hope that the Senate work will be successful and that we will prosper to end well with the important matters that will be here for the next few days. Like what? Yesterday, members of the council have been required to expand the assembly area even more from what was in us to meet the demands of the local rule and general disease control rules set for us. In addition to the upper department halls, the Minister's Room, and the filing room, the territory of the Conference Office is now also part of the council meeting area. The votes of the new seats in the side halls will have to be adopted and will be superseded all when the hearing starts next week. While most members of the United States hold their seats, the presidents and the presidents of a political party are required to change the seats of a few members of the council and ministers. In this arrangement, I have consulted with the presiding committee and members of the Parliament, as well as with the superior authorities. There will be experience in the current council, and it will then be determined whether or not the same arrangement will be extended to a new assembly starting October 1. In order to ensure the best health protection of a pandemic crown virus, to ensure that the risk of infection will remain low and the Council will continue functioning, the president proposes a temporary variation from the local body of members in the interests of committees, as permitted according to Article 95. Congress and execution were lost. Spring. It is suggested that a deduction date from 1st. 17th par. the obligation of members of the Committee to attend a meeting, as well as a 22nd chapter. to the Commission's decision site to use telecommunications tools for handling, planning, or making other decisions at bodies of members of the Parliament. By such extremes, it would be necessary for the members of the committee to be at the meeting in order to form a proposed committee meeting. In this way members of the committee are endeavoring to create conditions for doing their committees under the present circumstances. Is it possible for the president to contribute these variations to the end of this council? It is also suggested that the guidance on meeting services and the use of telecommunications at meetings of fixed committees sent to members of the council on April 30 of that year, be applied until the end of this council. The variants will be viewed without vote if they do not speak out. The President now intends to look for a variation to the importance of the third part of the program, which is distributed after April 1 and is not completed as 3 mg. Thirty-seven. Parliamentary conditions, i.e. So called a five-day rule. In view of circumstances, the president wishes for the variation to be granted without a vote given at 1 mg. Section 8. Congress. The variants will be viewed without vote if they do not speak out. Then it should be noted that a meeting meeting will be held today or evening until the discussion of the 3rd session is complete. The plan is to make a half hour - hour break or about to end a talk about the oral report of the prime minister and before discussing the third session.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u3	There have been letters requesting every time to give some written answers: from foreign and development co-Progressor to a suitability query. 1164, on contracts of public financial matters, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson; on deck. 1418, about the cost of the Ministry to written answers to queries, from Bruntur the son of Níelsson, to a threshing floor. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions; and on trinkets. 113, of the U.S. State's commitment that properly introduced EU types have a priority in the Icelandic court, both from Ólafur Ísleifsson; from the Ministry of Health for the SEC. 1805, on recruitment of individuals with impaired ability to work from Oddný G. Harðardóttir; and on deck. 702 improvement for health care failure, from Jón Þór Ólafsson. Finally, it's from the Department of Social Affairs for the Sports. 1327, through the NPA contracts, from Halldóra Mogensen; on the icicle. 1515 about the number of employment applications, from Jón Gunnarsson's son; and on deck. One hundred fifty-six, about the legal task of a House and Manicult, from Björn Leví son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u4	Mr. President. The worldwide epidemic that has been going on for months has affected the lives of all of us in Icelandic society, such as here at the General Assembly, which is what we had in mind to listen to the highest standard. President at the beginning of a council meeting. Since the outbreak's beginning, his first transmission was detected here on February 28, the government's guidance has been to set standards for the health of the nation, and it has been used to prevent the spread of the epidemic. Another guide has been to minimise the social and economic effects of the epidemic, both short and long - term, so that they have a minimum impact on public quality of life. It is interesting to consider how the nations have coped with this epidemic. This has been done in a very different way. As we consider how school has been conducted in various controlled countries, Iceland, as well as Sweden, can be seen in the decision to stay open in film schools and elementary schools. The vast majority of European countries have had very large school closures at the norms, which, of course, have had considerable social and economic effects, but also effects on the education of children who have even been locked up for weeks, such as to form in Spain. Thus, the operation and decision to keep the schools open was one of the most important social actions that governments have taken to cope with this epidemic. Also, extensive economic measures have been taken that I'm not going to list but the main light has been protecting jobs, creating jobs, and ensuring survival. The last published action was made yesterday and will be discussed at this site, but there are extensive workforce measures that include providing jobseekers with the opportunity to pursue and maintain unemployment improvements, prolongation of the contracts, which were one of the first steps taken, and have proved to be important measures for disease prevention and labour market operations, prolonging part - work routes, and doubled during the period in which people can maintain the maintenance of related unemployment, which is extremely important and achieve an important goal of achieving better living. Then I would like to mention large investments that began in 2020, where we have been using the power of the state's budget to create jobs and investors on different projects, whether green solutions, transportation resources, basic research, innovation, digital development, creative articles, or construction projects. The government will present continued investment initiatives, along with financial and financial programs, which will be used in this way to increase the value of the economy so that we can grow out of this crisis while protecting the health and welfare system and ensuring those who face the loss of new opportunities, whether by new jobs or by educational opportunities. I think that we in this room can all agree that Icelandic society has at the same time displayed flexibility and persistence, both to get out of the first wave of the epidemic but also now when we are in the second wave. However, there has been increasing discussions of how to cope with the epidemic. This is natural in view of the fact that our knowledge is greater today than it was at the outset, and of course, the epidemic has had tremendous impact. As noted, on June 15, the first steps were to pay for traffic across the border. On the other hand, that decision followed with the clear promise that if the epidemic took off again, it would be critical. I believe that the operation that was then attacked, i.e. taking up screening on the border, proving its value, and has certainly prevented the number of infections being brought into the country. At the same time, this operation has provided us with important information about the virus that will be used to further research and increase knowledge of this disaster. When there was experience at the screening, it was decided on July 13, that Icelanders and local residents would have to take two samples and apply aseptic techniques because they had more community contact than tourists, so special caution is needed. Nevertheless, on July 30, a hand brake had to be grabbed and recreated on the number limits and distances within the country, as shown in this Assembly Hall. The fact is, the worldwide epidemic is growing. The number of infected people on the border has increased in proportion to that. It is interesting to examine the figures in which approximately 120,000 samples have been taken from visitors from June 15, of which some 20,000 are due to the second sample. The first 83 weeks of active infections identified by national borders are interesting. After the changes on June 15, most of them were inactive, but they have completely reversed the latter part of the summer, reflecting the development of the epidemic in Europe. The government's conclusion that our most skilled scientific proposal was to tighten national activity by taking up a double screening with a range of 5How6 days apart as an alternative to a 14 - day environment. This was based on the experience of the procedure from July 13 on a returnseptic technique. They were extended, and the campaigns were tightened. The decision is based on the development of the epidemic here and abroad, but also on the instructions we originally set for ourselves, i.e. protecting people's health and minimising social and economic impacts. A significant benefit has been discussed by this decision, and the government had the government perform economic analysis in the manner of searching on the border, which was then updated with regard to experience. However, there has to be more economic analysis, since this is a complex matter. Of course, I must say here that the only policies that are set in this country are not the only ones that employ a number of tourists. It also makes a difference because Iceland has either been moving closer to the red arts of other countries or has just landed inside them. Similarly, when we look at the state of the international tourism service, it has been looked at as if those who travel between countries around the world reduced by over a billion this year, according to a new United Nations report on the effect of a pandemic on tourism. It shows that between the first five months of the year and May, the reduction was 98% from the same month each year and the overall reduction in the number of intermediate victims in 2020 up to a decrease in the number of over a billion passengers. There are about 120 million people in danger. The impact we see here on the country, and it's heavy for Icelandic tourism, is certainly not unique, and it is not important that we both support these companies but also use the opportunity to look for long - term time, to look ahead, for the future. I have no doubt that Iceland will have a lot of access there, both for our unique nature but also for the professional tourism that has been built up here. It is of interest to examine the world's recessions during the second quarter. What you can see from Eurostat's figures is that no conclusion can be drawn that strict barrier measures will automatically improve contractions. Thus, Sweden's recession, which has been more severe than in Denmark and Finland, is due to the mildest reductions in the northern regions. Of course, it plays the composition of the economy, and it is even more interesting to go around Europe and to see to form a recession in Britain, which is about 20% in the second quarter of this year. It is not overhistoric that we are likely facing the deepest economic low in a century. Finally, I would like to use a few words at this brief time to review this broad issue of the civil rights, which is an important discussion. Although, as I pointed out earlier, the freedoms of people in Europe were as limited as those in this country during the past six months. I would like to call to the attention of members of Congress that will be given to the Department of Health, which will be submitted at the hearing of the Council on October 1, you will find a review of the CDC where the General Assembly will have the opportunity to discuss their legal rights. Mr. President. It's important that we discuss them with civil rights in context. How fast people cross the border of Iceland is not the only thing that matters. School and cultural and sports activities need to be considered. It should be noted that in our time there were tremendous restrictions on thousands of people's professional rights and that they do not forget the limitations of older people, those living in nursing homes, and those with serious health problems who have experienced significant social isolation from the time of the outbreak. It may be helpful to review the rule stated in John Stuart Mill in his book on Freedom, that it would be permitted only to compromise the individual's freedom of movement in the event of self - defense. I guess she will be appropriate in this case when we discuss this pandemic. Good president and senators. The virus struggle is not nearly over. I think that the common objective of all of us, at the end of that struggle, must be able to look back and say that we have managed to protect our health, our economy, and our freedom so that our nation will have everything that is least damage and that the people will be able to work quickly back what has been lost in this epidemic. I welcome the discussion here, for it is extremely important in an open democratic community to discuss the differences in aspects of this struggle. We need to review it in a critical way as to how we intervene in people's daily lives and how the nation's economy will be the best paying. Although I feel that there was some good agreement on the main goals, to protect people's health, to minimize the damage to society and economics. Of course, we all share the hope that the coming winter will bring us good news in the fight against the virus, but we also know from the past few months' experience that it is best not to celebrate until we have it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u5	President. At the beginning of the pandemic, we declared members of the Central Party that we would support the government in all the measures that could be made to reduce the impact of this epidemic. We have done so, even if our actions were not completely in harmony with what we would like to do, we may not have expected. Yet, we decided to introduce our own suggestions for action, and we have done so twice. But now as we have as much experience in this subject as we have in the past six months, you think the government would be at least Having goals about how to deal with this problem, the goal is actually even more vague now than it was originally. We do not know whether the objective of the government is to tear down, as it was said, or whether the goal is to prevent transmission or whether there is something else. All these different goals may have advantages and flaws, but governments in these circumstances need to have a goal to make a plan, plan to achieve it. As long as the objective is unclear and uncertain, there is uncertainty. Uncertainty, this issue is when governments monitor how to deal with the problem. In reality, uncertainty is encouraged by making one choice one day but by making a decision that goes quite another way. If there was a plan and even some information on how governments were reaching their goal, it could be adapted to that purpose. Then the people of the country and the companies would make arrangements to comply. Then, too, governments could take steps to help people and their companies and to adapt the steps needed to develop the subjects and procedures involved. Instead, new corneas, which, in many cases, will be minimized or even out - of - date when the next planned plan is introduced. The flagship operation introduced at the outset, the bridge loan so called, and it was used to produce this imaginary 230 billion, 230 billion operations, you remember, you've done nothing. There's not been a single bridge loan. There have been some problems with the closure grant, failure to provide support loans, but at the same time, people have completely overlooked any action that could result in a long-term improvement in their employment life, a part such as a reduction in insurance or income tax, encouraging actions that may result in the growth of jobs, and an increase in value. Instead, there is still a huge budget in all kinds, one that cannot really be called a crazy project. How can humans stick with the value of 50 billion dollars? of urban resources in this situation when we have to invest in something that produces real value? Various promises are made about tens of billions of people here and there as the valley continues to grow. We, especially under these circumstances, need to manage the government's money and make good use of it to create jobs and new assets that will lead to a long future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u6	Mr. President. It's right next to the highest. When the first wave hit, the prime minister of the Icelandic nation showed perseverance and flexibility. The general public followed the advice of qualified specialists and took disease prevention seriously. These reactions were effective, and it was especially successful for us to keep much of our secular work going. But that spring was also very difficult for us. Ten people lost their lives, dozens of health, and delicate groups were in isolation with allaying ill feelings. The economic consequences of the epidemic and of the disease have been seen in an all - demand and unemployment crisis of thousands. They added the thousand that had already been quit the months before. It is true to remember that the economy began to cool off throughout the year before Covid, without the government taking the necessary measures. Actions against the Covid plague alone have proved to be different, but there have been a lot of slow and slow movement. Experience shows that the part - time improvement was the most successful way, both to pay and to the economy in the country. It was also able to be quickly expanded. It was used earlier by Jóhanna's Sigurðardóttir in a recent crisis. Other measures, such as the company's bridges, have been way too successful. I still have serious doubts about my resignation. The company opposed her, and she works against the part-change process, creating an impulse to resign. Then we criticized that with it it it would not be a call for employment on new jobs. At that time, it was far too shortsighted to take much more powerful steps to support rural society in protecting the precious service there, including the rest of the community. in schools and aging services. Most serious, however, is likely a lack of action for people and homes. Many will find it difficult to pay back loans, rents, buy out school clothes, spend leisure time in the fall, and even get medical help. Both could be very expensive to us, deepening the crisis, and increasing inequities. In the United States, we supported all the government's good cases and honestly worked to remedy them in the affairs of the council. We gave the government space and hoped that it would lift up from conventional pits, open open our ears, and welcome good ideas, even if they came from a position of government. Sadly, though, everything was in the same book. It's all turned out to be cool. proposals for higher basic work benefits, extension of their income connections, pay to senior citizens, disability, parents of long - suffering children, assistance to students and stress pay to futures, further assistance to rural society, specific support to small companies, innovation investments, technology and culture that would have all gone down. And finally, proposals for increased support for the media that have key significance in these times. Also, when making compromises on the border in June, there was no consultation with government opposition. I do not claim that the result was another or that the decision was a mistake, but it is absolutely clear that it was not based on an overall estimate of its economic impact. This criticism became quite evident at the beginning of August when it began to spread again. The government can be commended for learning lessons from them, based on other viewpoints when it was decided to reroute cross-border disease prevention, and also for appointing a large group of consultations to the end of 2021 that are to be seen wide on the antiviral front. However, it is surprising, Mr. President, that not one member of the council has come to that job, whether from a government or from a position of government. They are, however, ideally designed to shape the measures that inevitably need to be taken and to provide funds for them. However, while the government has repeatedly pressed the issue of government opposition over the last six months, the United States declares that, of course, it is ready to cooperate in a good work for the future. The major difference between this crisis and the last one is that the load is widely distributed today. Tens of thousands of people lose their jobs, and their homes suffer a severe drop in income, while most of them are far less affected by economic impacts, although they are certainly accompanied by the discomforts of effective handouts. Like the last one, young people are particularly affected during this crisis. There is a large population in industry that has now lost a large amount of money from its source, such as tourism and the cultural sector. According to the labour agency's numbers, 18% of people in that age group are affected by unemployment. At that time, there is 20% unemployment for immigrants, and these are the people who continued to spread the goods in recent years. If nothing has to be done, these people will become part of those who have already found themselves in society, poverty, poor older citizens, and others who have watched life gaps in recent years, whether they have been more favorable in the country or underprivileged. Mr. President. Then there are countless children in delicate development, who are particularly at risk because of their parents'uncertainty and failure. Already, there are 6,000 poor children in the country, and if these things are not specifically considered, unfortunately, after a large increase. Mr. President. Increased inequality is a crisis, and it is a political decision not to take enough drastic measures against it today. It is not just to support an enterprise but also to protect the most vulnerable groups and to promote each individual. If that cannot be done to the full, all talk is that of all of us who are alone. True, this calls for a lot of expenses, but I just don't remember hearing a minister giving them worry when they were being given tens of millions of dollars to money owners through the reporting route. I agree with a secretary of finance who said in spring that more than half would have to be done. Well, chief. Secretary of finance is simply here to direct the assistance to the general public more fully. Mr. President. The virus, of course, is an unpredictable creature, and we have no idea how long this fight will take. Therefore, we must have the courage to look to the future and to evaluate all decisions based on national interests and long - term benefits. The reorganization must be aimed at creating all decent living levels and building a variety of more creative activities. It needs to take into account the social changes associated with technological development, the struggle to combat climate and to minimize the risk of major events. Mr. President. We have no control over where we are today, but we control where we are headed. It would be a big mistake to start up the old machine all the way back to normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u7	Mr. President. The last few months have been difficult for many Icelanders, and unfortunately, it appears that the coming winter will be even more difficult. People have suffered severe disturbances in daily life, many of the quality of life, less association with loved ones in delicate groups that need just what is needed for association and support, and many have lost their livelihood. We were successful in controlling the first wave of the crown virus, but we have been reminded that it is not a task that can be done in a few weeks but will still be done. Many of us may feel as though we are starting the second half in that effort, but the fact is, we do not know whether the chapter that is starting is the second half or maybe another part of the four or the second section of nine. We need to face the possibility that the Korean virus and the consequences of the epidemic will continue to be the world's key cause. While all hope that vaccines or better medical treatment will eliminate this danger from society, we cannot afford to risk that future for the Icelandic nation. Our obligation is to find ways to restore Iceland, to reduce the damage to society as a whole, and to make it possible for the nation to live in a society characterized by action and joy of life, not doll and anxiety. We Icelanders and I can be proud of how we reacted when there was complete uncertainty and fear and nervousness in many parts of the world. A smooth response in Iceland called attention, and on the basis of it, we have the possibility of continuing to play as well out of a difficult situation as possible. However, as the uncertainty diminishes, the more balanced decisions we can make, the more we can assess the risks and react to them. Well, almost nine months after the Korean virus first appeared, we know much better. That lesson needs to be accepted and used to get life in Iceland as soon as possible. To live by the virus requires that we do nothing at all, take what is to be done, and have the strength to do what is needed, and stick together in it. No one needs to doubt that the government has put it in full priority to control the epidemic wave that likely made itself out of control a few weeks ago. Though they obviously do not have any effect on the spread of infection that was already introduced into the country and that has reached distribution, they reflect their priorities. The examples around the world clearly show that it is an unrealistic goal in an open and free society to avoid the appearance of the crown virus. It can be seen on the other side of the globe, where close to complete closure of borders was not sufficient to completely prevent the risk of a new infection, and the communities there are limited to the restrictions to try to avoid spread. It is only natural to wonder if there has been a need to go as far as we have. It will never be proved, nor will it prove false. In all this game, many of us have had to accept the answer: I don't know. And we, the rulers of the nation, have also had to have confidence enough to answer the good questions with the words: I don't know. But we know more and more, and one thing we know for certain: Our goal is that our daily lives will soon return to normal values. I have previously said that it is important that we continually expand our analysis of the location of the gold balance, between minimising the risk of cross-remission by heavy hand, and the risk of minimising social and economic damage caused by such disease prevention. It's a difficult assessment that will always depend on some uncertainty. We need to show humility toward that fact. In this situation, there are a number of priorities in addition to our primary objective of keeping the epidemic in check. First, to continue to meet people and companies by means of countercontractive measures. This will focus on several big and important matters during this assembly. Second, our mission is not to be trapped within closed borders longer than strong reasoning can be justified. The economic environment cannot tolerate such a closing process, all the smell of the economy. Without a good relationship with the outside world, we lose the basis for our economic prosperity. Iceland and I are dependent on buying goods and services from abroad, but we need a foreign currency. We must not underestimate the problems we face if the source of new, precious currency disappears for a long time. Third, we need to seize opportunities for a new parish. In the near future, we will weigh heavily on that parish, but we also need to think about other factors, where innovation plays a very important role. We have taken decisive steps to promote innovation, including 700 million. K. increase in the contribution to Technical Development Fund and 700 million to a new budget that we call Support-Koria and is intended to promote viable prosthesis companies that have a run-in problem with Covid, as well as increases in research and development costs and other measures. Mr. President. We need to control the epidemic and ensure life and health. In such efforts, we have benefited from the firm leadership and tireless work of a wonderful front at all levels that will be late fully appreciated. We need to be able to create valuable things, jobs, and income, which are the basis for our lifestyle and quality. Then, in a difficult way, we are walking safely. The age will test the endurance of all the longer than with more powerful leadership, perseverance, and concerted effort will be achieved in the best possible way over this difficult challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u8	President. During the spring months, the government provided a pack of measures to deal with the economic situation that faced. As autumn draws closer, it is clear that some of the operations have done well, but others have not. Some companies have given temporary living and employment, but many have become quite short. Some have not been made and have not helped anyone. The actions the government took were predictable. It is about protecting the present economy, the income flow of companies, and the sector of employment that has reached the ear of the government. They are not about protecting the people, because no one with the power of state can claim to be the interests of the people. They are not about reacting to a change of reality but about keeping fast in all the things that have happened. Now the call has come from the private firm that has any direct contact with the government secretary, Iclanders. Now it is clear that even though some of these have been specially designed for the business and the direct access of the government is needed to save it, the overall progress has been made. The government's responsibility for loans, up to 16.5 billion dollars, is to be given at the top of all the billions of dollars that have already gone through the government fund by means of the subsidies, resignations, and other measures. The lender will be a bank of state owners and the Icelandic nation will be responsible. And what does the State get for this use of public funds? Not a part of the club. They consider the minister of finance to be a unnatural interference between the state, even though many of our neighbors are now becoming part of their airlines. President. How much energy has the government spent on walking after all the demands of the industry? How much public funds have gone to professional drivers to resign employees when we might as well have given the money to the public to ensure that the economy is built up from within? Instead, the economic efforts for the people of the land were laid out to be as narrow as possible to prevent excessive expenses. The basic thinking, especially when there was a delay in remuneration, was that the conditions would be strict and the system rigid to reduce attendance. The effects are inevitable when people fall apart, in the gaps, and in each family that falls into them focus on anxiety, anxiety, and a lack of quality of life. Mr. President, we're not supposed to stuff people into a square system. We're supposed to tailor our systems to the people, create flexibility, and eliminate conditions and temporarily reduce them while the workforce is recuperating. How long will the government refuse to face the change in reality, and when will it take advantage of its drive and intelligence in Icelandic innovations and pioneering instead of mass proposed low wages? When can we see the ideals of prime minister in action? The actions of the government are, in a single word, conservative, just as did the people who took the initiative. President. While I miss the vision of prime minister in the operations of the government, I think the ideals of the secretary of finance are very clear through, unfortunately. Now that thousands of people have to support themselves and their families in the business of unemployment, it is reasonable to hear a call for improvement in ways that they can be survived. However, the minister of finance, the head of the Independence Party itself, does not say that it is wise to raise it, thus reducing the motivation of people to work. It's not just antisocial of the highest. Rather, it is an uninformed position, based on evidence that does not apply to the present situation. The secretary of finance is wrong. Working research tells us that the effects of temporary recovery and financial growth in crisis conditions have little or no effect on job application and much further ensures continued consumption and preserves economic growth during a recession. What the secretary of finance doesn't understand is that the economic hardships the pandemic has brought on a new view of the welfare system and a new approach that grabs everyone in the community without ID or impairment. To ensure economic security for all in this uncertainty period, you see an investment. By protecting the survival of people, we protect the economy and encourage the growth of innovation and flexibility needed to build up a future labour market. Injecting money into a world is not a sign of lofty ideals. In an economic sense, we did well for a few years. But we need to be prepared for that reality. Now it is necessary to look ahead and support the next big ideas. It's not for us to say who they are, and it shouldn't be that way. A number of individuals and businesses are waiting in the starting room with ideas that have every opportunity to become the basics. What is lacking funding to get them started, and that is what this government should be doing, creating tomorrow's work by financing innovation, art, culture, and research rather than clinging to the past. Then I'll have to point out that the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, had a historic opportunity in 2017 to introduce a new constitution with groups that respect the national democratic stand. We could be in a place today where the people's resources belonged to them and that we would gain a reasonable amount of money from them. Instead, we have seen the nation's resources decline during the reign of this government, and instead we are hearing the south hold that all major security systems are now being summed up. I just thank you for the fact that this government has only one year left and hopes that it will not further damage the community by its NGO in times where social reconciliation depends on cohesion, cohesion, and cooperation. Let's keep that in mind for the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u9	A respectable president. Last week, the head of the Administrator of the Land Hospital said by permission of a president: ▪ What happens is that it becomes this tremendous cooperation and communication. Our leading international scientists and companies on this market are sharing information. It's a unique victory for mankind, if you don't mind me saying it. It has become dominant that cooperation and communication will lead us out of the world's present - day conditions. This is an attitude that is built up in the policy of advancement. Over the years, the band has been a minister of cooperation that has released and has solved the greatest developments in the history of the nation. The worldwide crown virus has given us unsupervised, long - standing assignments. Who would have thought it a year ago that there would have to be action to ensure flying to the country, securing public transportation between areas, especially allowing telecommunications at the local administrations because people couldn't get along? There are other factors to be listed. Not to be overlooked is the fact that in the middle of the code, the laws and terms of transportation were adopted, with a total of 900 billion dollars. for the next 15 years. This includes work, increased safety, traffic security, and improved quality of life worldwide. What stands out to me, however, is the harmony that has marked the response of the nation. People have agreed to fight the virus even though it required sacrifice, both economic and economic changes in daily life. But just as the nation has stood by the authorities, so the forwardness and the government will be with the nation. The most important work to do now is to create jobs, a wide variety of jobs throughout the country, since tourism is a shock to the country. In the reaction now, two Ministry Department members play a key role, the Department of Social Affairs and Child Services and the Ministry of Education and Culture, which ensures our well-being and gives us our opportunity for the future. Study is an opportunity. The greatest decision in this process, perhaps the biggest one that this government has made by many, is to face this crisis, not with tax increases or cuts, but with parishes. It is the policy we have long spoken for. As we have seen, the recession of economic growth has begun before the Korean virus came. We're going to press on. We go forward with the increase in government investments at the same time as we seize those who are temporarily in trouble because of loss of employment. This can be done by the government because it had already made financial and economic progress through a more reasonable way of managing these matters, even because it has a wide range of appeals. It is a balanced government, and with this balance, we have been able to achieve a solidarity of changing, even radically running, the learning loan system, the child - care environment, the housing system, the transportation sector, to name a few issues of progress. The global epidemic can lead to divisions and conflicts, but just as it is time for the virus to be eliminated by itself, we need cooperation to build a stronger community. The pursuit will remain as far as we can work to settle the progress of society. That reconciliation will not be made with an extreme on the right or on the left. The future depends on the center.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u10	A respectable president. Let us bear in mind that the government began to enjoy an excellent home. At one point, there was no question about the promises of increased government spending and political stability, and they lived on their fronts. Public activity continued to increase dramatically. The stability was maintained for some, and little was done to reduce the tax burden on individuals and commercial life at the same time. However, as early as the first year of government cooperation, there was evidence of the cooling of the economy. In the latter part of 2019 C.E., the wealth had become insurmountable. Storm clouds snuck up. More than 30 years of exporting had been measured. Unemployment had not been so much for years. It was a fluke. There was uncertainty in the past. A reduction in the number of tourists was started for Covid and a reduction in investments, to name something. The government wouldn't admit this reality, at least not that he was a problem. During our return, we repeatedly requested that the government take steps for these weather conditions. We showed the cards by press conferences and funded a proposal from 2018 and 2019, and now in 2020 we kept on warning of continued inaction and inaction in the state of government matters. As early as this year's beginning, we encouraged the government to wake up and ensure the need for enforcing investments will be stopped and action would immediately be taken to reduce the costs of employment, such as reducing the total insurance. That's not what they were listening to. Then came the pandemic, and our world changed. Since then, we've watched the government in absolute defense and response. I'm not saying the government should've figured out the Precinct, you can't. But if the government had responded to our evidence of total cooling in the economy, it would have at least Based on a point of view, be prepared for targeted investments. No plan was ready, not a clue, except maybe a plan for some press conference. The government took a long time to introduce the first pack of measures. The first one had a magnitude of 230 billion, many good things there. But first and last, it was the part - improvement that proved to be good and is good to hear that it should be extended. However, we must say, other measures have been severely malformed and well under schedule. Thus, government operations were at best highly overrated, and many of the government's actions, its political actions, were simply lost, even though others were useful. The only action that has gone far beyond expectations and plans is the use of individuals in special savings. Meaning what? This means that the homes in the country are making use of their savings to bridge the gap. I fear, a respectable president, that there has been too much time in preparing a home - to - house resort that the government groups could maneuver between themselves and unite, but then they did not prove to be resources to meet the needs of the economy and did not meet the greatest threat to us, and that is the fact that some 30,000 people may be out of work for the next month. We have a difficult fall. Keep in mind, too, that this situation has not been established for market-related reasons. The situation has been established as a result of a pandemic political decision. Sadly, the reaction of governments to face the shock, as we see in newly diagnosed financial policy, is far too small and too late. We need a much wider financial policy. We need to do more right away to prevent this temporary situation - and this is a temporary situation - from going on for long periods of time, and we will not have to cope with the long - term economic consequences of the government's failure too little and too late. The biggest task that awaits all of us is to protect our jobs and create jobs, protect homes, and protect companies, especially those small and mediumsized. Those now out of work because of this temporary situation need space and a safety net, an opportunity to have a chance for the next 12 months. There must be some foreseeability, even if there is anyone, for the job and for the country's homes. It is not enough, with all due respect, to extend a plan of two months. We need to take more bold steps, and that is why we must take general measures immediately, such as reducing the insurance fees to our companies and moving people to work. This needs to be done. Just as specific investments need to be made, so it must be made in the interior, man, and innovation. It will cost more to do less right away. We must prevent this account from being sent to future generations. At least I'll sue. not about doing so. The government has had 1,002 days to prove that it is. I'm afraid it won't, and there are signs. We saw earlier in summer that it was decided to open our country, and it wasn't done after some diagnosis or information and whatever subsequent consultations; I'm not going to assume it from this government. Then she wears a chest: We can screen 5,000 people. After they start, the government will shut down our country without informing our people. Even government ministers say that the preparation was inadequate, that analysis was missing. I wish for a travel minister's success in getting these analyses to the surface. We need a government that doesn't create information in a epidemic like this. We need a government that shows us firm and firm, afraid of the conversation, dares to agree. There is a potential for solidarity and a valuable motor force to build up our society for a longer and shorter time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u11	A respectable president. Today, the government of these unprecedented times has shown us without a mask what it will do. The ambition is no greater than that, so she is proud to defend the present situation. What does it mean to try to defend the present situation? Is it not humane policy in the middle of Covid to make sure that people have the potential to support themselves, pay expenses for housing, buy for food, live a decent life? Keeping people in line for hunger problems does not allow them to do business and thus keep them going. It is a vicious circle worth avoiding. This writes President Drífa Snædal of the ASI and requires government to raise unemployment rates. That's the only thing I'm talking about when you're out of a job. And what does it require of those who lack a job? Yes, of the fact that the base-count improvement will be 95% of the minimum labour market wage per collective agreement, of 312.250 k. for tax. There's no overpower, but it sucks to go to 240,000 bucks. by tax. They're asking for an improvement, for example. Two hundred and sixty thousand dollars. per month. It doesn't overpower, but it helps. But what can be said about older citizens and disability who have to accept starving at 220,000 bucks? a month after taxes? This amount is now reduced because of the increase in food and other necessities. People at risk for the virus must remain in isolation and receive groceries and other necessities, but they cannot afford them. They have to go to the store, they're safe because they can't afford to buy masks. What messages are received by older citizens and those who are very poor at the expense of the government? Yes, the government intends to defend the situation, defending that a large group of people are trying to survive in these dreary conditions. What an ambition. Don't send the people to relief agencies, because that's the increase from 50% to 200%. Not everyone can come there because of their health. But what does that tell us? You're wasting your time, you're growing poverty. In the morning paper yesterday, a doctor at the emergency department of a land hospital ◯ A university hospital reported that conditions were never worse and that the health - care system was weakened after the Korean virus began to spread. Will the government defend it? Does her ambition not exceed that after promising to strengthen her health after the first wave of Covid-19 to make the system better prepared to deal with the virus? Is this ambition? What about a waiting list in the health system waiting for orthopaedic surgery to double and approaching 1,000 people? Of course, this should remain the same. What are the consequences of sailing into? Are we aware of the consequences of keeping people at home, motionless? What defense do these people have against the virus if they get it? These are bad conditions that are being offered, and there is no ambition to change them. Older citizens are the only group left behind in government operations for Covid-19. Sadly, micromasks received several crowns, which were once sufficient for their dose because they were reassigned by inflation and the fall of the crown. We have to realize that food has greatly improved, and we're talking about growing groceries all over the place up to the 30 to 4.40%, which I've seen. This is a gang elevation, inflation. At the same time, these people have not been given a cent to deal with these increases. The belt needs to be tightened. Older citizens and poor people were not corrected because of the collapse of the bank and are the only ones who have not received it. This group is supposed to be up to about 50,000 bucks. a month after taxation. That's a fact. Their income from taxes should be about 270,000. a month, and then the tax rate will be corrected because taxes have greatly increased. They haven't followed a pay number, so if it was given right today, I'm completely convinced, no matter how we look at it, that nobody in Iceland would have to live at a rate of 350,000. a month of tax and inadequacy. And there are no supernovas, not in any way. No, the message in the bank collapse and Covid-19 is clear: To a large extent, this group should continue to live and to live in poverty. Children should also live on in very few ways because they are to defend their position today, defending that a large group must go to the relief agencies to ask for what? Yeah, food, clothes, textbooks. Is that normal? Is there any way we can justify it? Is it not pathetic that this government's ambitious aims will continue to victimize its worst? Yes, there is a large group out there who are in a terrible position to live without pay, e.g. Artists, they're completely out of pay. But there is another group of people who have tried to live a month, even years, completely without pay, sick. These people are in the social security system, and for some reason they have received some small money, which will be taken in return, in return. But now the ambition is 65 bucks against a dollar. The ambitions are so great in this government that we now approved a dollar in the fall of a dollar to return to the system for those with reduced farms. What does this tell us? Where Are We Going? I say, let's change it now. Let us make sure that those who may remember themselves and who need help most, but not all of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u12	A respectable president. It is so remarkable with unprecedented times that there will be precedents. At times, we find that most of the resources that have been most effective in dealing with the economic situation of the crown virus are measures that arose in the past of the left management as a response to the economic breakdown of that time. In particular, there is the partial improvement process, which is likely the most effective option, even though the breach was made from within us at this time while retrieving our resignations. Therefore, we must rejoice that at this time, although only about two months, it should be extended at the end of the month. But this was not until yesterday, and now the month's match was due to expire. I wondered how many companies have been disintegrating at the beginning of the week as to whether Friday was their narrative date and how many people on the stocks have not known if they would be working after the weekend. When we talk about nonverbal communication with the government, they sometimes work in public, but this is true in people's lives. I don't know how it is that it took so long to announce the extension of the part-winning process. I'm thinking of two possible reasons that I'm sorry for both of you and I hope neither of them is true. On the one hand, it could be that it was difficult to negotiate between the parties to continue with the ruling process. It's not good for the winter ahead, since we all need to build up here. The second reason may be that some secret thinking has become deeply entrenched in the Council of Government, that it is held so tightly that it is not to be demonstrated until it is finished. This is not good either, for we need to look ahead. The public needs to start seeing in the fall and the winter and the next year. The situations we are living in right now are just genetic testing for the much societal changes that lie ahead of us because of technology and climate change. It's the most important thing that we all really are in this together. In the fall, we need to turn our back on the offensive. We haven't yet seen the issue coming from the government. Study is a working path that is in that direction. It helps people to gain a new knowledge that will benefit them further in their work. But what is now missing is a work that suits the unemployed group today. [[The president calls.]] We couldn't see it back in the spring when everyone took the job off the shelf and replaced it. It was a recipe that wasn't meant today. [[The president calls.]] We need to work at the position as it appears, and we need to see what is to be done on notice more than four days before the month's round, where everything goes to coldwash. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u13	Mr. President. The situation of a pandemic with crown virus is such that worldwide there are 24 million people with known infectious disease, and more than 820 persons have died. In the north, some 125,000 have been identified as infected, and more than 7,000 have died, of which 5,800 have been found in Sweden. The number of people infected in most European countries is increasing. Many of our major business countries have had serious problems with the epidemic, which has laid its mark on people's willingness to travel, the production capacity of the countries, and their potential for initiative in business. Icelandic governments have had the basic goal of protecting people's health and have taken action because of the economic consequences of the pandemic. Government procedures and intervention have all been on the basis of expert advice, but the responsibility for the administration is within the government, ending all subsequent action in their hands. Here we are in what has been called the second wave of the epidemic. Holding it has been successful, and the number of people infected is only about one fifth of what was at the beginning of the first wave. Increased knowledge of the nature of the virus has made it easier to support those who have fallen ill. Despite everything that the health - care system has done, all its employees are to be commended. During the time of the epidemic, many projects had to be delayed, but the function gradually returns to normal. However, it is clear that while there is still a likelihood of transmission, health care will continue to be on the alert. New processes have been shaped. Walking services and telecommunications and other services without visits to the station have been intensified. We have seen that a powerful public health system, funded from a common fund, is extremely important to control epidemics like this. It has been observed that Icelandic genetic analysis has played a tremendous role, and thanks to that, it is also possible. In many parts of the world, the development of Covid-19 vaccines is now under way. Final phase tests are already under way, and according to the most optimistic predictions, it will be used on either side of the year. I hope this will work, but the Icelandic health authorities already have access to vaccines when and if they do exist. The economic consequences of the epidemic, both in the homes and businesses of the country, have also been important. The share-change process has ensured the recruitment of thousands of people and the expected extension of unemployment benefits will ensure that most of the people who have lost their jobs because of the pandemic will receive income-related unemployment benefits this year and in most cases up to the next year. By this action, we will allow time to evaluate the next step as we continue to secure the progress of those who have lost their jobs. There's been a lot of talk about the alleged closing of the border. I'm saying the allegedly, the border has never been closed, although the lost rules on transmissible infectious diseases and infestation have been in effect. It is important to remember that even if there had been no changes, it would have been assumed that the flow of tourists in the country, as has happened all over the world, had begun the second wave of the epidemic. Recent figures suggest that global tourism may be affected by 78% of the decline this year. It will then have to be looked forward to not only reducing the number of infections in the country but also the opportunity to release restrictions within the country if successful. If we succeed, it will be of great importance to us as a community for the next month. Schools, cultural work, sports, and even family invitations and gatherings of friends will become less and less oppressive if the results are achieved within the country. The struggle against the epidemic has been one long adventure. None of us have previously faced a similar task, and in such expeditions it is wise to take one step at a time, always looking forward, and evaluating the consequences of the steps that have been taken. The situation may be temporary. In February many thought that the virus would be passed in the spring. It would have been as unwise then as it is now to play out the entire speech on one board because we do not know what comes next. Governments have been criticized for lack of policy, but policy has been clear from the start, i.e. To get us as a community through this epidemic, which is least damaged. At any given time, no one has known what the next step would be. Therefore, plans are dependent on uncertainty from here to now. In my opinion, it has been noteworthy that cooperation and willingness within the council have been great to do well and to stand through the storm together. I hope it will continue in spite of future elections. The impact of a political stand on a judicial case on the epidemic has been considerable, and the cooperation has been very effective in most of the cases. We are confident, but we know that we have a strong foundation society, an infrastructure that is stable and cohesive to a nation that wants and intends to make it through the epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u14	President. We have to learn to live with the virus, said a psychiatrist at one of the many information meetings most of the country has expected to have followed. A surgeon also said that it was time for governments to come to the decisions they must make so that society can continue to function. That is exactly what governments must do, making decisions, and thus responsible for future decisions. I don't know what's the worst. Most people want firmness and forethought, and that's where leadership matters. Only in this way can a solid foundation be built, everyone heading in the same direction. At the present time, there is a perfect lack of leadership, and there is no prejudiciality. Patches are put on so as not to hold, no fixation. For example, two things appeared in the news yesterday. The first was that instructions were given that visitors on their way to a district could now take buses or trucks from the Chefjordur airport. This is stated when tourists stop arriving in the country, at least for some time. The second was that it was considered disappointing that infected people were surprised. There was then a lack of a plan to face children in a delicate position because of closed school, the same children who had to isolate themselves in spring. Understandably, there was no plan then. How about now? Why don't we have a plan? Why was this surprising? I mention these examples in which we in the Central Party provided suggestions for us that truly touch our families and homes. The objective was to improve quality of life and preserve vitality, as well as to provide additional resources that would result in increased private consumption and support for domestic production and enterprises. The suggestions were provided to allow them to be predictable and attached. They were and are general. They are useful to many, and for the long time it is possible to work toward a better view of the future at the same time. I'm afraid we're lying to each other now, unfortunately. Sadly, the crash will come, and there must be a plan to meet families in the country. The government of today. So it is time for her to get up out of her chairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u15	Mr. President. The idea of moving on the border during the summer was to get tourists back to the country to maintain their disease prevention. The government knew well that just one mistake and one infected tourist would be needed to get the epidemic started again, and this would bring us back to our early routines, health and economics, with the consequences, especially for those who are ill. The risk was taken, and most of them supported it and hoped for the best. This did not go well, though, even if some crowns came for a while. I don't blame the government for making this decision. The country now has 8.8% in total, and predicts that it will be 10% by year. The world's largest unemployment in the South is about 16.5%. One in five women in the Southis is an out - of - work, serious situation that seems to be of little importance to the board of directors. Loss of a job is a devastating blow. Especially do children of the unemployed, their schooling, need to be careful that they have enough to eat and can share in organized leisure activities, which will not go beyond and out - of - date. We do not know when the epidemic will take place, but anyone who wants to see that those who lose their job and go to unemployment will need more government support. Right men say that rising unemployment rates will increase the number of unemployed. When thousands of jobs are reduced by pandemics and large sectors are in serious trouble without a new job opportunity, such claims are clearly wrong. There will be no new jobs by creating distress in the homes of those who lose their jobs. In contrast, poverty and domestic distress are a society of animals in every sense. Job's loss is more serious in crisis than in good health. A number of people lose their jobs at the same time, reduce their jobs, find other jobs more difficult, and increase the risk of long - term lack of work. Their side effects are terrible, for families and for society. It is the duty of politicians to look for ways to prevent them, not only to the people who are affected but also to the rest of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u16	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank our powerful people, who have stood on the front line in this pandemic of Covid-19, now raged for six months. Hospital staff, nursing homes, clinics, and staff of Icelandic genetics must not forget and any other person who has helped to fight the virus. After the financial collapse about a decade ago, all of us became economists, where we learned terms from the economic world. Today, we learn a variety of alternative concepts, and many have opinions about how to deal with them. It is not surprising about this, and it is vital that good discussions be made about how to handle the difficult issues related to the pandemic and, in fact, how important it is that changing opinions get space in the discussion. The result of the Covid-19 pandemic has created the only greatest economic crisis possible. A long search is needed to find a similar crisis. The British say that this country has to go back to the beginning of the 17th century to find a bigger economic crisis in that country. The largest one for over 300 years in Britain. The government has since March. proposed counter measures to protect society's foundation. At that time, the government has made a special investment effort to increase valuables and to ensure work. Among the largest financial action by the government on Covid, there is partial improvements, payment on notice, maintenance of tax pay, maintenance allowances, payment of special property, travel, support and extra loans, loans and credit cards. And what has the government done for individuals, families, and children? There have been a number of specific measures: subcontinent wages, up to 633,000 jars. every month or 21,000 pg a day, a part-time cut, a special child reformer of 42,000 bucks. under pressure of 2020 and 30,000 K. to those who do not get pedophiles for loss of income. Then there is a great deal of action, which is access to special savings, up to 12 million per person. The increased and extended reimbursement of cost-employment tax from work, 100% reimbursement of previously 60%, and this source has also been extended so that it also includes vacation housing, household support, housing care, both individual and tenants as well as car repairs and car rights. There is a special support that is additional for children's leisure activities, specific support and supplementary development for the care of disabled and chronically ill children, and the strength to care for those without income support, and does not affect other benefits, as well as for students, and increased contributions to summer jobs for students. Then there is a proposal for a synopsis from the Independence Party for a temporary investment campaign, which we handled here at the end of March 1 in the budget of less than 18 billion in addition to the 74 billion that we agreed on in the budget of the year 2020 last November. and is about 3% of the domestic product. This injection in an investment will be at the exact moment, already reducing the investments of the private sector. In connection with the budget and budget that we will discuss here in this hall after a month or more, a special investment plan will be presented to you in the year 2021/2023. It will be announced to the supersized government, where further investments will contribute to future economic growth. The purpose of the government's investment campaign is to counteract the recession of the economy following a pandemic crown virus. There were 15 billion in budget one, and a budget committee added 3 billion in the spring we agreed on. It is widely available, for example. was added to the sectoral program of 200 million and 100 million to the break - down areas. Just at the end, I'd like to point out, which may have been small in general, how large a number of students are in the school system. The figures from the fall of 2019 are that students in the basic schools were then 46,000, 21,000 high schools, and nearly 19,000 college schools. This number represents about 105,000 students in Iceland. This means that just about 30% of the population in the country are in the school system, 30%. This emphasizes the importance of their actions by the government and the importance of securing the welfare and welfare of young people. Showing how many people are in the school system is an enormous and important feature of the discussion. Right now, the virus's got the upper hand. We do not know how long that situation will be. We are going to grow rapidly and safely from this situation when the opportunity arises. It takes a strong government who has the courage to put forth economic measures to save homes and jobs but not to swing like a leaf in the wind in the face of adversity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u17	A respectable president. The concept of the doctrine is a death sentence for the future. It is the goal of maintenance to do as little as possible, to act as little as possible, and to live in the past. The theory of evolution was made clear to us in the aimlessness of the present government. There is no forwarding, merely trying to hold on to what was. Yesterday's society is the recipe we receive from the government, a government that makes sure that those who have and are allowed to continue to own. You're very careful that at the end of the code, everything will be as it was, so you can continue to hack into the same rut. The government's first response included a market campaign for travel of 3,000 million dollars. and innovation to the future for 1,750 million. A market of 3 billion, innovations to meet unemployment and build up needs of nearly 2 billion. The priority order could not be clearer. The government's new financial policy says that there is an opportunity for improvement and innovation. Last month there was 8.8% unemployment; more than 17 of you. ... aman. Six.7% unemployment is expected next year despite all government operations. There are lost opportunities, with people all over the country looking for unemployment. Our young, but less than 18% of them are out of work. Our future is to begin its lives in a market campaign. There are people there who might be working on new and exciting jobs all over the country - but no, they're more likely to need market campaigns to make sure the tourists come here in the code. President. So far, there has been uncertainty. Uncertainty about what is about to happen next and what measures are in force. Uncertainty that you don't understand. The government's answer is to postpone a policy for us and confuse people with misleading messages about who can be near whom. May a minister be near his friends while no one is allowed to hug in funerals? No one understands. It does not matter which course is set if no one understands the point. The best actions are useless if they are not clearly and well-founded. We cannot expect people to hold the order of the world forever, and we cannot expect people to be patient when their anxieties are brought with an endless lack of understanding. There are so many things that are incomprehensible, not just a lack of government policy. Why has there not been a new constitution in spite of national law? Why is the eating system still the way it is? Why haven't we had a vote yet? Why is the High Priest still a minister? Why does Secretary of finance get to hide a report? Why doesn't the truth matter, Mr. Honorable President? Why, asks someone who doesn't understand. Despite knowing that those who are expected to answer, ask with an outback. Why do we accept this? Why do we accept the conservative community and politicians who deceive us every time they open their mouths? President. I think that question says all that has to be said about the existing government. Why was the market campaign for pandemic tourism more important than innovation for the future? No one expects progress from independent party and forward. Everyone knows they're conservatives. People may have expected something else from VG. People now know better, because if there had been a wish to really change what hangs on us like anchor, constitution, saying goodbye, setting a future policy, VG would not have been in control by independent party and forward. Government activities are a declaration. A declaration of enforcation rather than a vision of the future, such as a marketing campaign for innovation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u18	A respectable president. Today, I am a member of the Icelandic community, but I am convinced that we will be able to handle the challenge of the epidemic. My primary objective as Ministers of Education and Culture is to protect the country's schools and strengthen culture and sports. I am convinced that it will succeed. In spring, we managed to keep the education system going. Iceland was one of the few countries that did it. Clearly, school directors, teachers, students, and parents went to great lengths to pursue secular work. The guide to that work was the well - being of students. It was a pleasure to see students graduate and continue. It made my heart very happy to see that these things could be done at the same time that schoolchildren from around the world have not been attending their schools since February. What a horrible thought! In this country, we have been able to hold the foundations of this community. Of course, there are challenges, and we know that they are accompanied by this epidemic. The first day of winter marks a new beginning in the minds of students, but this time the beginning of the school year is also a symbol of the will, the endurance, and the spirit of those responsible. We will do what is necessary to ensure funding into the education system and that school will suffer as a minor disorder. We all see how sensitive the situation is, but we all have to work together and cooperate. I've been very cooperative with all the schools in the country, and I'm proud of our students and teachers'leadership. In the near future, I will present new education policies for Iceland, whose purpose is to shape a powerful and flexible educational system extending to the future. A respectable president. Clearly, culture and sports have been tested. The government immediately took action by providing additional funds for cultural and sports. I'd like to mention that we're still working on that position. It is clear that we need to take additional measures, and I would like to mention that we are looking at an art fund that could reach artists who have temporarily lost their income. That's where we're looking at other northern countries. Of course, it has also been reported that the partial improvement pathway has been extended. It has been making great use of artists, and it is good that we have such resources to support our community more fully. The same is true of sports. Of course, we want to be able to come and support our team, and we are hoping that the action we have taken will help us to arrive safely on the field. We are doing all we can to ensure that a national sports career will continue and that our children will be able to train them. We are doing not only everything possible to protect society's foundation but also to promote it. I am convinced that we will control this position, ensure intensive schooling, and also move forward in culture and sports.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u19	Mr. President. It has been interesting to observe the discussion and particularly the talks of the Ministers and the government supporters. V.E.G. In his speech, a traveling minister said that past times had been difficult and difficult for many, and they would likely continue to do so. At the same time, they were put to death that the government would walk without letup on all its work. I'm gonna allow myself, by permission of the president, to quote an interview that was taken to the highest level. Tourist for closing or significant limitation of traffic on the border. A minister says in an interview with RUS: ▪ Of course, we knew that the consequences of such decisions would be great, especially for tourism. It was predicted. The minister then quotes the situation as saying: 'She doesn't tell us how long the present arrangement will be on the arrival of people to the land.' Whether or not to engage in counterargument activities against tourism is still yet to be discussed. Is this a dead end? Is that balanced? We know that this has marvelous consequences, but we have not yet considered how to cope with these consequences. No, this isn't how it works. We need to be bold. We have big decisions to make. Government decisions are completely burned - all of them, I will withdraw them, but most of them are too short. It's true that we don't know what's ahead. Hence, it is necessary to give to all who can be more sure of the future, especially to people who are losing their livelihood. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u20	Mr. President. As the government minister could hear, they feel that they have successfully coped with situations because of the crown virus. I don't agree with that. But officials have done well. The government was rather late for winter and spring, when it became clear what kind of problem we faced. The actions that finally took place were not general but selective and temporary, and they are now being extended. Thus, the government is still making decisions for a short time but does not recognize the long - term problem. In fact, the government has enjoyed the ability of government officials to stand in the front of preaching the problem until it had to finally make a decision that had to come to the border. Then the government decided to close the country so lightly that tourists even had to return to the Leifs station, where they could see their land closed. Closing the country is a decision that can be reasoned, as can be reasoned with Dana's methods, which are in places similar to Iceland, with a number of infectious but not closed borders. However, there is no way to agree and argue that there is a complete policy and leadership that marks the actions of this government. Mr. President. For months, government ministers have called upon us not to escape, the virus will probably flare up again. We need to be careful and prepare for another wave. It's just the last time we were here in the words of the highest. Prime Minister, this is by no means done at all. Billions have slipped from the state fund because of the epidemic, including the U.S. in advertising the country, patches of the labour market, payment, shouting in a box, totally aimless, completely planned, and completely without any future vision. And, of course, without any agreement with other political parties. What kind of work is it, saying, "I expect the virus to flare up again, but I don't have any plans for a reaction? " What kind of work is it for the government to put hundreds of millions in advertising the country and then close it in one night? What does it mean to destroy the country's reputation by making aimless decisions, as the government does? Has the government measured how much it will cost us to lose the credibility of international tourism? Why should a traveling agency try to sell trips to Iceland when there is complete uncertainty in the government? Travelers naturally complain about the uncertainty, but they have been subjected to unfair criticism simply because they called for a vision for their employees and their functions. Our problem is that we have a government that doesn't know where it is going with regard to the response to the Korean epidemic, rather than most other matters. There's no long-term policy. If the government knew that the virus would return and likely be found here, why didn't there be any plans? Why were there no plans, tops. Prime Minister? How should Icelandic homes and businesses survive when the government makes uncertainty instead of trying to destroy it? President. There's still an increase in uncertainty. There are long-term extensions in the stock process, unemployment improvements, etc. In the short period of time for current action to be completed, you will finally receive an announcement of extensions. What is the vision of this government? Is it just the saying that comes so often at the press conferences that the government is making with really little messages? Where is the leadership of the nation in need of leadership? The government has rejected all cooperation with Central Party, like other government groups, and we must therefore demand that a government program be set up for what will be done in the months and years, because this virus is not going anywhere. She will not leave until she has been vaccinated. Is the land to remain closed? If not, how will it be opened, the highest. Minister? What is needed for it to be opened? What if the virus comes back up again? What company and individuals will be expected to do, etc.? It needs to be prepared and introduced, top level. Minister. The government needs to stop having a good time and act. Are there plans for major unemployment, neglect of homes and businesses? Or will the government let the financial powers decide who live and die? Now we need to do what was to be done right away. Homes and businesses must now be protected, including those who have everything to do with rent sales and keep people's possessions from being owned, since they will have to come back and do nothing about it. To protect homes and businesses, plan and shape responses to different stage arts, dare not introduce them, and take the lead. If the government does not have what is needed, it must step aside and call others, for strong leadership is needed in order to make bold and large decisions and be on their side.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u21	A respectable president. It is appropriate to begin this final part of the council during the discussion presented here. It is only to be expected that a vision by members of the Parliament will be different as to whether the urgent work we are about to take place in the circumstances under which this pandemic has occurred. I'd like to come up with a few things that I feel are getting out of it. First of all, I feel that the organization that was formed right in the first few days of Iceland's virus has proved to be incredibly precious to us. She wasn't self-indulgent. It was formed, including Because there was the right tone here at the council and on the basis of that great solidarity, we succeeded in our first action. In itself, it is true that many of today's talks have shown that the goal, the goal, has only been to change. At first, all our efforts to prevent us from overdoing our health - care systems to deal with the problem. The danger was that if the virus spread rapidly in the community, it would simply not be possible for the health system. We saw from other countries television pictures and knew that this danger was real. I think it is safe to say that we have succeeded in achieving this primary objective, our first and foremost objective, in the first days and weeks of the operation of the government and the council. However, we did so, not alone, but in the force of social solidarity. Afterward, our initial reaction in terms of government affairs, in economic operations, was followed, and their actions were under way despite the tremendous uncertainty of the times. Thus, some of our actions were only for a few weeks because we saw at that time no further into the future than the next few weeks. This may sound strange today, but a serious discussion was made as to whether we should have some of the options, such as. in the partial improvement pathway, two weeks longer or less in value. In the meantime, we have extended our operations and are now meeting to re-established them. It's all in shape under circumstances. I must say that I feel that there is little material basis for the criticism heard here, that the government repeatedly suggests an extension of individual measures or implies new resources, because that is, in fact, exactly what we need to do, respond to circumstances, and offer suggestions that speak into situations such as evolution from one time to another. In this respect, I think we did well with our first action, but we are in the uncomfortable situation that no one decision will solve the problem we face, but the job will simply continue. It is therefore our appearance here during the few days that the council meets now that we are still reacting. We are laying the groundwork on the next budget plan and budget bill, and it remains to be expected that the government will bring additional measures, depending on what the process is. This is simply the nature of the external threats we are dealing with, and these are the right reactions, to be flexible, ready to change when action does not arise, to resort to new measures that are more likely to be on the basis of new information or experience, and to present them in history, and to take the wave when it is overly agitated by the sea we are sailing. I'm impressed by the fact that there's been little discussion about the fact that we were able, in effect, to eliminate the virus that was here in spring. The pattern of the virus that was then traveling in Iceland is no longer found. It shows an amazingly high level of success here in preventing disease prevention and in the treatment of viral spread. We've got new variants of the virus with a different pattern and we're still dealing with their spreads, but we can do them a little confident because we've had the experience of storing it down, and we're still dealing with them, the copies of the virus that have been here before. However, we are not saying that we can eliminate the virus. We continue with the main objective of protecting people's life and health and trying to minimize the economic impact of the virus spread on the land's households and, of course, at the same time, the work. That's the goals we're working on. The methods must vary according to their individual circumstances and how the epidemic progresses. With the border, this is one of the most difficult decisions we are facing. Our latest actions have simply taken into account that we have lost through the border these new copies of the virus and that the virus is growing in other countries. While we are evaluating how we can best protect a foreign community from these events, the current rules apply. But I hope we can relax them as soon as possible. It's not exactly in our hands when that happens. [[The president calls.]] But I agree with those who say that we must first lay the groundwork for making such a decision, i.e. that this decision be made must be clearly defined. Travellership is not required by opening the border if things are wrong in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] No tourists will want to come to Iceland if the hotels are closed and restaurants are all closed because the virus is still spreading. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u22	A respectable president. The Covid epidemic came to us like a thunder from the sky, just as it has been in our discussion here. The government has responded firmly to any action taken. Many of the projects that all of us in this community have been working on, we have had to perform a modified image or set aside for Covid-19. With the government, all time will be used to deal with the epidemic, to ensure services, and to protect people and families in a delicate position. The advance team and I have emphasized the importance of protecting groups in a more delicate position. That's what we've done within the Department of Social Affairs. This has been done by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Ministers within the Ministry of State. As Minister of Social Affairs, I can say that we were working by means of the crown epidemic to ensure cooperation and cooperation between all parties serving vulnerable groups in the community. With cooperation with rural society and cooperation with a free organization, the last winter's epidemic was able to ensure that, next, services to all vulnerable groups in Icelandic society. I want to thank the powerful staff who have stood in the front line not only in the health system but also in the social services, in the services of sensitive groups under extremely challenging circumstances. It has been watched in the rural areas and is still doing so now that the virus is shooting down again. In sensitive groups in our community, people are in a more delicate position. These may not be the most loud groups in society, but these are people who need, much more than we who are in this Senate hall, on a normal routine. They need to be able to do normal things, to come to work, and to places they need in their everyday lives. These people had to endure much social isolation during the last winter. We've spent about 6 billion dollars. of public funds to ensure social improvements for these groups now in summer and spring months and the resources are very well spent. I would also like to say that vulnerable groups do not have to deal with the fact that the virus takes its roots again so that people will have to stay inside for the whole winter, as they had to do during the last winter. As for the labour market, we've had a variety of activities in the labour market and will continue with this senator to discuss further action. We will continue in the coming affairs of the council; in the subsidies, the payments, and the summer work that we created in recent summers. Three times as many summer jobs as were created after the collapse of the economy, and all summer jobs for students could not be filled. We are preparing procedures that will be discussed at the council for those who have been long - term workers, and we will need to take further action. But when they say that the government didn't use the public funds to grab the people and the families who've lost their jobs, they're actually wrong. In the current year, more than 70 billion of public funds will flow through unemployment insurance to homes that have lost their jobs. In comparison, during the past year over 20 billion were under unemployment insurance and 24 billion in 2009. Now it goes three times higher in catching people, catching families. Then I'd like to say that this virus is a different tool, as we have seen. Perhaps it is best for us to admit that we do not have all the answers. We do not know what tomorrow will bring. Therefore, if the virus starts to behave differently, it is crucial to keep responding quickly, be ready to reconsider decisions, and change its course. It has guided the government. That's what I've been considering, which is why we should be guided in the coming winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u23	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. I believe, though, that it would correct what was stated at the outset: The government has just had a very clear guide to cope with this epidemic. That guide I went to my first talk, i.e. to protect people's lives and health. We have done so by means of powerful biohazard measures, which have taken into account the circumstances at any given time. I haven't heard much objection to the arrangements in this room. However, the guiding principle has been to minimize economic and social damage and I intend to agree with the highest level. The social and child - care minister who did well with regard to the mass social activities that the government has taken and has clearly overlooked. Councilmen of the government, who have not observed. It has truly been used for real measures to protect people's survival, to form in the part - time process, which is about creating new opportunities for advanced education for the jobseekers, who are involved in supporting low - income families so that children can continue their leisure activities, which are about to support the elderly who are in the palaces of their feet, and so on. This was also a problem. Since the start of this government, in 2017/2020, and now more this year to create more jobs, members of the body of directors of the huge expansion of public investments. Do not make short-employment jobs like that. The senators talked about it, and so they were completely wrong. Because what are we doing? We're investing in basic research, innovation, knowledge industry, creative branches, green solutions, digital solutions, transport workers, construction projects. Diversive solutions for a future community. The government has shown this in action - and it may be more for us to do things than speak a lot - to rely on her to deal with changing circumstances, to set priorities, and to have a clear light that she trusts to follow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u24	A respectable president. In this unusual situation, I recommend a proposal for a resolution of the change in terms of fiscal policy development for the year 2018/22022, found on a panel. 2031. The official financial policy provides a basis for firmness and forethought of public finances and provides a more solid basis for all planning and decision making, including the need for change in money policy at any given time. Nevertheless, it is assumed that these circumstances may inevitably require reviewing current financial policies. On the basis of official financial laws, it is appropriate if the core users of policy fail or predicted that they will fail because of economic failure, national or other circumstances that are impossible to handle with available measures. If that happens, it is permitted to depart for up to three years from the absolute financial principles prescribed in Article 7. The law. The General agreed in June of my first proposal for a change in the survival and debt goals of the established financial policy prior to 2018/2022 due to integration in tourism and complete hairy deficiency. In addition, in view of the high uncertainty of the economic trend, a special uncertainty shift was defined to the targets set in the annual financial programmes. The magnitude of space was set out to be 0.8% of gross domestic product in 2019◯22022, corresponding to a total of 23◯28 billion dollars. in total recovery per year according to the current budget of the economy. A respectable president. Rarely, if ever since the beginning of the 20th century, economic prospects have changed as much in time as in recent months. It looks like this year's turning out to be the world's greatest economic recession in one year since 1920, which will result in a huge loss of production and significant economic losses. It is clear that as a result, all key executives of today's financial policy have broken down, and it is therefore important that governments set out policies for public finance and economic goals at times such as the emphasis and the baseline law on public finances. A revised financial policy forms a framework for the survival and debt development of the state funds and the official for the first two years of the next financial programme or through the year 2022 as well as for the next year's financial bill. The epidemic has brought about enormous losses, especially in tourism, but this crisis has made clear the importance of the incompetent government of government, government of public finance, and financial systems of the past decade. Never before in Iceland's economic history has public funds been used with equal force to offset the economic fluctuation. The nature of these reactions is three-way. First, the scope of public service, implementation and transfer systems has not been reduced despite the extensive decline in the state and rural sectors. This will lead to a recession in my economy. Second, there have been many special demonstrations, such as procrastination of taxes, unemployment benefits, reduced employment rate, pay a part of pay on notice because of government responsibilities on loans to professional life, as well as some special investment initiatives. By that time, more money has been spent on investments in innovation and evolution. In addition to this, the support of various social instruments has been increased. The primary objective of these measures has been to soften the damage to home and job life under the present circumstances. Third, automotive balances of the state's budget have been permitted to work fully, on the one hand, through increased unemployment expenditures and in the form of a smaller tax system, such as in income taxes. The security network that is built into the Icelandic labour market has a major role in protecting homes and supporting economic demand when economic pressures arise. A respectable president. It is unlikely that in these circumstances, the official amount in these circumstances would be an inevitable constriction by either increasing taxation or reducing the amount of activity to meet the targets for survival and debt. In this situation, government management does not involve a national loss in itself, although it reflects an economic loss due to the spread of the virus. All are spent to strengthen the financial standing of individuals and businesses, create jobs, prevent the loss of valuables, and stimulate the economy in order to enable us to grow out of the huge shock of the pandemic. We have no choice but to move forward, create greater value, produce, increase efficiency and expand national cake. Without growth, you see, there is only a harsh adjustment that will cost us much in principle. The proposed up - to - date national economy of the Habitat is not expected to again cause major setbacks. However, because of the impetus, a new trend is excluded, and because of this, it was designed for an anomaly that I will take a closer look at. Based on the available core picture, significant compromises are expected in 2020/22022. Its appearance is that in the current year, around 10% of GDP could be studied, with 6◯8% of gross domestic product in 2021 and 2022. For the most part, this angle can be attributed to economic counterweight measures and to the decision to fully allow the automatic swings to work. The imaging analysis also indicates a substantial and sustained effect on rural survival. It is estimated that more than 1% of GDP will be achieved during the current year, and 0.5◯1% in the 2021 and 2022 years. Together, this expansion of the state funds and rural society leads to an enormous increase in government debt. Thus, government debt is expected to increase from less than 28% of GDP in 2019 and will be above 50% by the end of 2020 on the law on public finances. There's an increase in the value of 850 billion dollars. in just three years. Official enterprises are expected to be at a angle in the current year instead of a positive product of about 1% of gross domestic product. However, land management is expected to occur between 2021 and 2022 at a rate of between 0.5 and 61% of GDP. According to a pessimistic picture, the epidemic's high tide is expected to occur early in 2021 and that there will be severe disease prevention measures in the region and other countries. For those reasons, a number of foreign tourists will be 80% lower than that of six months. At the same time, this wave is expected to have a greater impact on the expectations and risks of the private sector than on the one that entered spring. Private consumption and investment of the private sector are still intertwined in 2021, and unemployment is expected to take place. This would be expected to result in only 0.6% of economic growth within the next year or more than 4 percentage points less than in the baseline population. GDP would be about 100 billion lower than in ground forecasts, both in 2021 and in 2022, according to this darker picture. In the long term, this loss of production is critical. We are financing the financial expenses by taxing the economy; government funds by the size of the economy as it was before the epidemic struck. That is how we have decided to respond at first, i.e. to maintain the public ministry that we have built up and are proud of and have been content with and have been expanding in many lands. We're maintaining this, and we're even doing more, especially in the transfer systems. That's how I say that the spending side means the size of the economy as it was before the epidemic hit. On the other hand, if the economy is less permanent, we will have to reduce expenses in some way. In the long run, however, we would be most fortunate if, in time, we were to replace the loss of the epidemic and rebuild a powerful, competitive economy. We're supposed to go there, to a powerful, competitive economy. This is essential for us to make up for this loss of production. In fact, the darker climate picture can be expected to be less efficient by the public at 1.5% of gross domestic product in 2021 and 2022. In accordance with the above views, debt may become more than 4% of GDP by the end of the period or about 55% of GDP by 2022. A respectable president. The revised policy is now proposed to change the emission targets for 2020-022. Thus it is set out that no more than 11% of GDP will be achieved in the current year. Thereafter, recovery is expected to be no more than 9% of GDP 2021 and 7% of 2022, respectively. Achieving the lack of greater than 1.5% of GDP in 2020, 1% 2021, and 0.5% in 2022 will then be aimed at achieving a maintenance of the A-part A population. In view of the present uncertainty of the economic trend, a precautionary view is that there is a need for uncertainty over the period of 2% of GDP in 2020, 3% in 2021 and 2022. The extent of the uncertainty shift depends on the ability to maintain support for the economy despite a lower economic wind according to a darker scale. In fact, the darker scene is predominantly at the direction of the uncertainty curve. This suggests that financial policies will be changed. Here it is estimated that the debt of state funds will not exceed 38% of GDP in 2020, but it will slow down the debt increase so that debt will not exceed 47% of gross domestic product in the next year and 56% in 2022. There is then a target of not exceeding 7% of rural A debt in 2020 and 8% of GDP in 2021 and 2022. In addition to public enterprises, it is suggested that there will be no more than 15.5% in the current year, 13% 2021 and 10% 2022. In line with the change in attitude, policy estimates for the overall debt of public Member States do not exceed 70% of gross domestic product in 2020, 79% 2021 and 87.5% 2022. Let's hope these darker scenarios don't work. There is a great deal of work to stop this uncertainty gap from being replaced. These changes mean that the aims of financial and financial policies will not meet the absolute conditions of Article 7. Management of public financial matters by 2020,2022. First, the official's tail will be more than 2.5%. Second, the objective of a positive global equilibrium of the public will not be met. Third, the government's debt will exceed 30% of the law's criteria in 2020,2022, and it will appear that the debt rate will rise in its time. As noted earlier, in the present situation, it is inconceivable that the official amount of decompression by means of massive counterweight measures to meet the targets of survival and debt in current financial policy. In view of this, in the synopsis proposal, these conditions will be temporarily replaced. By means of this policy, we are dealing with only the period until 2022. This means that we are not at this point and with this policy of making decisions that concern the last three years of the financial programme to be submitted to the World Council at the beginning of October, but that unchanged laws will apply from 2023. The task that awaits us is to ensure that legal matters will make us needed flexibility in order to use public finances as an economic stability tool in the years to come. A respectable president. The government has set out to bring about a competitive society in which prosperity is based on a powerful man - made, powerful economy that has proved to be the most important thing in the country. In this context, we have three main emphasis. First, that public funds will be used in order to ensure stability and create economic resistance and emphasis on protecting the health and welfare benefits. Second, strong resistance will be driven by valuable jobs and investments. There have been emphasises on education, research, innovation, infrastructure and environment and climate. At that time, economic and economic reform will increase economic benefits for longer periods of time. Third and last, it will be emphasized that the modern - day public is in accordance with changing needs and circumstances. Involvement will be ensured by unforeseen events by the reduction of the new and sustainable financial debt so as not to keep future generations in check. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm completing my case. We're here to help homes and businesses while they're in trouble because of the virus epidemic. [[The president calls.]] Then we make it possible for them to cope with the problem by creating conditions for new growth and progress. I suggest that the plan be referred to what. The legal committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u25	The norm to five o'clock. Councilmen have requested an answer and will be opposed to this historic speech so that representatives of all opposing parties can come to the attention of a minister. The speech time is one minute in both circles.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u26	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. The revised financial policy mentioned here is more general and not surprising. I will discuss this further in my speech. But what I wanted to say is to ask the highest. A minister here and now that in this revised financial policy, economic growth is expected to take place right back in 2021. It would be interesting to know the basis for such predictions. How important it is to know how such a scene can change! I think it's very public and I could have gone deeper into things in this regard. I wanted to ask the highest. Similarly, a minister for predicted economic growth in 2021 and 2022 will continue to increase considerably and are highly high figures. [[The president calls.]] But the policy does not reveal why the increase in debt is supposed to be such a year's journey when economic growth is back positive. If the highest. A minister could go over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u27	A respectable president. We've got a question for future interest next year. We build on an up - to - date firm's project on fine economic growth next year, but we do not have enough time to see how much contractions this year is. You could say we're disappearing about that. back to 2016 in national production with the current contractions. But all predictions indicate that compared with 2020, there will be economic growth in 2021. Of course, there are factors, including some. it is expected that the tourism service will only take over and that the uncertainty will gradually ease and that it will attract some extra investment, compared with this year in which the private sector's investment has fallen very quickly. On the contrary, the greater the investment of the government. We will still add to an investment next year, so there are different aspects of it. However, the factors involved in economic growth are fundamental factors in the ability to work again toward the sustainability of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u28	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I didn't think he would fit in with the reason for this huge debt gain when we saw that there would be economic growth, as we really hope it will be. I'd like to agree with it as the ultimate. A minister earlier said in his speech, hopefully the dark scene set in motion will not come true because this could have serious consequences for us. Yet, there is great uncertainty ahead. What I feel is inexplicably clear about this course is why this increases in debt. Is this because more investments are being planned? Then it should be reduced, so economically speaking, when economic growth returns, which is expected and we hope to go on. If the highest. A minister might explain this in a way that would improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u29	A respectable president. The huge debt collection I attributed to my story talk is explained by the fact that we are maintaining the level of older economic growth. The economic growth as it was created enough money for this spending level, and we decide not to take an extreme cut off on public expenses but to maintain the level of service in the belief that we are dealing with a temporary situation and that we will prosper in rebuilding land production. It's really the policy we're making here. The increase in debt is due to the rise of 300 billion people and the next year more than 200 billion naps, and even in the second year, 2022, two years from this year on. If so, we are still dealing with tremendous numbers of tilts and even two, three years later, but with economic growth. I believe we can do better than the latest economic forecasts at this point in the third and fourth year. I think history also shows that there is an enormous flexibility in the Icelandic economy. [[The president calls.]] With such interest, we can keep our ratios low, even if we are in a slant.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u30	Mr. President. I'm going to be very clear in my counter, asking for a clear answer: Why does this new financial policy say you're going to hold on to the proposed hospital and health care requirements? Aren't we in the middle of a pandemic? Why is school a special requirement for this new policy? The schools are not drowning in applications, including Because of the historical unemployment? Why is there a special requirement for artists, innovations, or studies in the middle of the Covid epidemic? I know there are no new standards on this course, as it would have been crazy, but let's not fool people because it makes sense that you're keeping your previous standards. Do they know? Do members of the Parliament know that this is the time to maintain standards according to current financial planning? The collection is about 60 billion. Mr. President. So this is 60 billion dollars. counterclockwise to the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u31	A respectable president. We have made it very clear that new expenses related to the Covid epidemic will be funded. And as of this year, we have shown by our work that we have provided funds for school, for health institutions, for sports, for art, for innovation, for research. Everything has been funded by special funds this year because we can see that this is where the effect takes place. A senator wants to keep his eyes open. With the general requirements. There is no special stipulation on the official organisations to which this is now being purchased, i.e. schools and clinics, rather, we have just a lower general requirement for these factors. I'm just gonna say one thing that's extremely important to be in the air this year and in the years to come: We've got everything to work. We simply have to make sure that all over the government, where we are financing business with new loans every day, it is about to maximise the use of funds. A general demand for a little more for the same budget is one way to make sure that it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u32	Mr. President. When health institutions are expanded to the limit, the government of Bjarni the son of Benediktsson makes a special provision for the same institutions. It's done. I know it's lower, but it's in accordance with the dominant financial programmes of institutions that don't have a requirement, e.g. Courts. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: There is no way to skip this permanence requirement, e.g. for hospitals and schools, just as it's not a legal hearing? There is no break-up of any prince's finger. In view of the pressures of schools, hospitals, and health care, this is a peculiar political bitch of my opinion, in view of our situation. Does the government really need to pinch off these key institutions in the middle of a pandemic? The Minister can answer me in the second place, but he's ready at least. considering taking the special requirements of these key institutions? That's all I ask. That's important, because the collection of resources to all institutions, as I used to know, is about 60 billion, which is more money than what we put into transportation. This is twice as much money as all of Iceland's high school costs. It's not a small amount of money. This is important for hospitals, health care, and schools.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u33	A respectable president. I think that already it is. One senator says that the gathering of a total of 60 billion is to put together the entire season of the programme. Of course, there is one way to try to amplify the number, to take years, and multiply it all, and put it together. But let's just take an example of what such a requisition term means to key institutions, let's say for Land Hospital. Let's say that the business with government progress, special income, and everything is all around 70 billion; 0.5% per 70 billion in the world, 0.5% equals 350 million. K. There are 350 million that the member is actually talking about. At the same time, we are offering billions of dollars to deal with the consequences of the epidemic. I'm just saying, when one government agency rolls about 70 billion, it's not unusual, when we all have to work on one thing to make the most of every dollar we can, trying to find ways to save that kind of money. It is against the promise that anything new to the relevant institutions due to the pandemic and that, in particular, Covid, will be funded in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u34	A respectable president. Now, it looks like inflation is starting out, it is in about 3◯4%, the march is a freefall, and the blackest projections say it could go to a distance of 64% of the gross domestic product, which is 600 to 5,600,700 billion. The track's starting to scare. At the collapse, a certain group was left behind. It included low-payers, older citizens, and cripples. They did not receive what was promised and have not yet received correction. I don't see anywhere there doing anything for that group, so I ask them the highest. Minister: Is that correct? Is there an increase in alcohol science each year the only thing that that that group is supposed to receive, nothing else?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u35	A respectable president. I'm going to say that the U.S. dollar is actually doing what we want it to do with the amazing changes that have been made in the economy, i.e. ... thatshegivessomethingtodo. What is enjoyable after the Icelandic crown's fall to other currency today is that we do not see real inflations. To the extent the inflation has gone up, and inflation has taken place, it seems that there is a very short period of time. It is asked here if nothing should be done for the transfer systems. In recent years, we are defending the transfer systems after an enormous increase in them. Those who feel the most the situation today are not those who rely on the transfer systems for their advancement. It's not official employees, it's the people who work in the private sector. It's where I think more people's hearts could be struck here at the Hall, by the people who have lost all their contributions because they've lost their job. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u36	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's reply, but he did not answer, " Should I do something for those who are in social security, older citizens, and desperate? ' Should they get more than 3%? Are they supposed to make up for gang swings? Are they to make up for the remarkable increase in food and other necessities or should they not? I recently read an article in a magazine showing that a license for salmon farming in Norway was sold at 30 billion, as is free of charge here. If they had to pay the same money at home for salmon fire, it would have been 40 billion. Is that not something we could get into and visit older citizens, disability, and health - care systems?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u37	A respectable president. We have laws that automatically ensure that our transfer systems change over the years, taking into account higher rates of change in the land or inflation. So if you ask right here whether you don't stand to protect people from the influence of the inflation in the reforms, then the answer in the law is already and not available to change it. We will make changes in harmony with what is written in the law. It has sometimes been said that people have belts and bracelets. I won't say anything about it. There has been an analysis of exactly this law, however, there is no need to raise any idea that if the government or the council were changing, it would be necessary to reduce the value of the funds. That's totally out of the question. As for the salmon fire, we have recently taken legal action for fish farming in the country, which, as written in the Constitution, grows to an extent as the article takes over and increases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u38	A respectable president. I wondered what the aim of this financial policy really is because I am full of words here on the rest of this and then when I look at the national ideals, I don't see the product of financial policy in it. I see a product of the national money policy. There the index price remains 2.5%. Despite a few increases in intersecting values, however, at the same time the unemployment rate goes to 6.7% next year, apparently despite financial policies. So I wondered, based on the plans made here in financial policy, what effect are the goals set out to have on the status shown by the Agency? How does this financial policy improve the unemployment we see in immigrants, which is 18% now in the past quarter? [[The president calls.]] What are their goals, and how are they affected?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u39	A respectable president. I believe that I have made it very clear in my history, and I believe that it is also very clear in the analysis of policy policy policy that our goal is to exert our financial resources with full force at the time of the failure of the economy. Research has shown that this is the right time to do so, and this is, in fact, in a certain way, the only conditions that can justify much borrowing to stimulate the economy and prevent more contraction. In other words, it would be foolish to take public action during a time of high economic growth. The effects are seen in much greater national production, better employment level, more positive debt ratios and in the long term are generally seen in improved quality of life. When asked what the economic forecast would have looked like without the government's actions, it must be a conversation with those who make predictions. [[The president calls.]] And that is one of the things the financial adviser has been calling for, that there is a certain conversation, that is, to be called on to plan for a fortune - teller so that when governments are making their plans, they can be taken into account, and we have tried to share information in the summer so that it can be made clear. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u40	A respectable president. I realize that, and that's why I'm asking, because I see the impact of money policy on Iceland's Institute of Economic Affairs, but I don't see how this financial policy is going to affect unemployment. It's said to increase the level of employment, etc. But what is the goal? Is this objective 6.7% as expressed in the national economy, or is it less unemployment? And if so, what is the goal? That's what I'm asking you about, so it's the highest. The secretary of finance might answer: What is the standard for the level of employment that is designed to achieve by this understandable increase in expenses? I agree with that word. Secretary of finance, but the level of employment is another form of inflation. If economic problems do not manifest themselves in in inflation, they can manifest themselves in unemployment. That's what's being predicted here, so how does this financial policy fix that problem? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u41	A respectable president. The answer to the question is, in fact, just that the goal is to reduce unemployment to the level of practicality by applying the terms of the money, so there are some external limits for borrowing and tilting into the next year. We believe that this year we have had very effective results in public action. We're putting 80 billion into the economy this year for benefits and unemployment benefits to people so that they can support themselves. Otherwise, it is not to be expected that the council will deal with situations like those we now face with a policy in which we place the desired level of employment as our goal. No more to be expected than when people discuss deaths in traffic and plan to slow them down. Suppose they were 50, they say: We're going to try to get them down to 25. This is not because 25 people die in traffic the next year. Rather, they are trying to change their condition. In exactly the same way, we are trying to reduce the unemployment rate, and then we get an evaluation of the effects of our actions from those who do the diagnostic work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what the financial policy says, for you can really just stop by one place here, by permission of the president: At such events, there is an opportunity for improvement and innovation. I couldn't agree more. I want in the highest. The secretary of finance after that, since it does not exactly take place in financial policy, does not exactly expect it to be stated plainly, but this is still included in the text: much. The minister of finance uses his government to speed up and expand the resources already available to finance innovation in the land? It is important that we do this both for a long time and even for a long time. I realize that. New birth is a long run. I feel a little short in all the government action that has to do with these factors. Very much. A minister uses himself in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u43	A respectable president. I think that if people were to look back, let's say in 2012, they will see very clearly that my priorities in this subject and the governments I've been involved in have simply multiplied the contributions to these classes. We are doing so by means of special financial laws this year, by entering the competitive fund, and by making sure that the projects that may not have been strengthened up to this point will come back to our minds. Last night, there was an assignment and a scholarship decision. We intend to keep on doing so. Asking whether we're going to speed up and add. I think we already showed that we're doing it, and we're going to keep doing it. However, we have not yet decided that there will be a permanent task, but the period in which we are now making the decision, i.e. This year, next year, after an incident in 2022, we are discussing it, and I believe it will also be very clear in new scientific and technical policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u44	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I didn't quite quite get it, though. A minister was primarily talking about what has already been determined or whether the further decision is to be expected. But I'd like to reiterate that innovation is a long run, and in these days when we are faced with a tremendous financial crisis and a dramatic decline in employment, we have to look for a long time. We must look to the future. Long-term innovation isn't until the end of 2022. There's a lot to go beyond that and make sure. That is what is being called after, not what has been done, not for a short time, but for a longer time. I think it's extremely important for the government to understand. How important it is that they understand that this needs to be in the long run! It's not a race.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u45	A respectable president. I could give an example of two events in that area from this year, not over a short period of time, but over a long period of time. Food Fund - it has not developed as some temporary phenomenon in 2020. It is a new fund that we will have alive and that will finance long - term food production projects. The same applies to Kría, who receives a very good gift from the first day and will help finance innovation companies where the private enterprise has shown that it likewise has faith in projects. With investors, Kía, not a temporary phenomenon, but a long-term financing fund that has been missing in Iceland. In addition to this, in recent years we have been doing this, and in the years that followed, large contributions have been being made to the competitive fund. I don't have a problem with what. A senator who needs long - term planning. You can't start people off with a large project and then cut off all their support on the next one. But I simply think our work is saying everything that needs to be said about these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u46	Mr. President. I mentioned earlier that the revised financial policy discussed here is rather general, with my opinion of little surprise. In accordance with official financial legislation, the time of financial policy to five years is now being revised to two years of age, i.e. of 20181⁄2022. Admittedly, it is in a special way to reevaluate policy. In fact, the review should take place from 2020 a224, thus looking forward despite the completion of the election period in over a year and a new government and a new council making a new policy. The budget will then be submitted after approximately A month and a review of a policy should then be made at the age of five, as the law says. It's a little special to reconsider what's gone on, in my opinion. If we first look at some technical points that I would like to review, please see page 5 of this magazine. 1 table in which the text provided is not clear enough for me. When you're reading the policy, there's some text and a tablet that doesn't fit together. You should do certain things and then go shorter than the table. It's good that we don't have to use all the space, but here we need an explanation. On page 18. 12 of Section 2.5.1 says that next year, 2021, aims for the maintenance of the state funds by about 8% of GDP. In the table on page 19. However, 1 says that the hook will be 9%. Of course, there's a difference. Either you're talking about an 8% or 9% space, and this could be made clearer. There is a lack of clearness, as is required by the civil law. On page 18. 14 of chapter 2,5.4 says that debt rates from 28% 2019 to 51% 2022, which is naturally an enormous debt collection. If you leave the table on page 5. 1 You can see that the debt leaves 27.5% to 56% in 2022, but not 51%, as stated on page 11. 14th There's a big difference of 51% or 56% when we discuss debt as a proportion of GDP. Here's an explanation for why these numbers don't match. On page 18. 2 states that the final language reads: The General confirms that this economic policy is consistent with the baselines and conditions set at 2 mg. Section 6. and 7th pars. a law on government finances, taking into account Article 10. The law. [...]◯ You ask yourself, " Is that right? ' I don't think the transparency is clear enough when figures are ambiguous when we discuss debt ratios. The task today is, then, that the council confirms this final paragraph, confirmed that the policy is under government law, and then a budgetary committee has to do a considerable research work in order to say that it is, and carried it back here in the Assembly Hall. The importance of financial schemes is high, and a financial committee is expected to meet with the Council after the weekend, which is of utmost importance. But the time is short to investigate such an extensive subject. What is lacking in this policy to my judgment is a special section in which the Ministry explains how this works, how financial policies in terms of money in times of high economic uncertainty are in accordance with government laws. There must be a much more detailed discussion of how the baseline values under the law are guided by my judgment and how they are being met. You need more text on the main project of the Generals. There are no detailed coverages on each baseline level and then all of them are summarized. Is that what it's like to follow? The answer must be made, and that needs to be clear. On page 18. In view of financial regulations, 18 is discussed on adaptation, but there is no evidence to support it, and it is explained how the baseline values are attained during the difficult year trip we are in. How do we secure e.g. ................................................... This should be evident by logic, and then by the council and members of the council to assess that support. Unfortunately, these important factors are all too widely expressed in this policy. How's the government going, for example. to ensure stability in financial policy in times of high unemployment? The course is to deal with the means needed to achieve those goals. The government must have a vision, a way that has gone to see the future. The whole idea should be a vision. On page 18. 3 In a report, it says that it looks like the biggest impact on the land and on the debt development of the government from the Republic. This is a matter of further review by the Ministry on this of those who came to work on this proposal, and this should also be a special chapter. On page 18. 4 According to one estimate, 170 billion were expected. In total restitution of state funds, collection of the time of financial policy. This was really the space we had. This may show the best blow we've had, which is naturally immense but also shows from every government fund before the blow hit. I'd like to step aside to a table on page 5. 9 dealing with the economic interest rates of the International Cash Fund. What impresses me is that we do not mention the countries we like to compare ourselves with, which are the North countries. We're in a so-called Northland model, so to speak, and there should at least. ... toprogramliketwoinland countries. Then there is no mention of what is meant by a developed state. There are a number of things that need to be explained and too widely expressed in a policy. On page 18. 20 discusses how governments respond and stress their policy review. It is, in fact, there. Talk about valuable jobs, investments, and increased prosperity. All of this is a noble aim on a general scale, of being used for employment capitalization. This should, in my opinion, be in line for creating good jobs. I would have liked to have more discussions about such things, e.g. Whether to create jobs for women and create high - quality jobs. It was correctly mentioned in this discussion, e.g. in South Australia, one woman out of five is out of work. It must be the goal if the government's budget is to make money for commercial gains so that there would be good jobs that would return to government funds. Finally, I'd like to introduce only inflation development. The growth of inflation has been most affected by significant reductions in the survival of the crown. This is shown in the recent issue of the Federal Bank of Money that was published yesterday. Of course, this is a major concern. For example, foreign foods have increased somewhat, clothing, and household equipment. I hope the late held bat is right, but he believes this inflation shot is likely to last a long time, and I hope it's a complete mind, but there's a lot of uncertainty. There is good news, though, that in general, inflation is low internationally and growth has never been so low. The success of the gang must be followed very closely, looking for any means that inflation will not get out of hand with the economic problems we face, that would be a great shock. On page 18. 15 explains a darker picture of survival and public debt development. Such a scene is positive today. Since then, financial and financial committees have been called. We certainly hope, as I mentioned earlier, that this dark stage is not going to work out, for it would be a huge shock to us on what has already fallen upon us. The picture assumes that another large wave of the virus epidemic will occur early in 2021, and the economic improvement will not begin until 2022, so it is highly important that it does not fall above us on top of everything else. I can see that, Mr. President, my time is running out. In the first round of this important matter, I'd like to say that I feel, as I mentioned at the outset, this policy is all too universal. There are a number of things to explain, and there are conflicting numbers in each tablet and then in a text. [[The president calls.]] Of course, a great deal of important work lies ahead, since we get the opinion of an authority committee and in particular, I look forward to hearing what financial counsel has to say. [[The president calls.]] I emphasize that the committee will have plenty of time to review.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Here is the lord of the Birgir of Þórarinsson, who was here in the best conversation with the first. and very helpful tips. I agree with him that we're working hard ahead. The budget committees to review these targets, debts, prospects, development, and harmony in text and report. I noticed something the senator pointed to and had already seen. I thought it was interesting. A candidate came into the text on page 20. 14th It explains that based on the different scenarios and the level of debt presented in the table, this is a maximum of 64%, in 2022, of which 51% is mentioned. That's considering we don't have to make use of the uncertainty gap, and hopefully we'll be there. But if we need to make use of the whole amount of space published in the table and to give the course a curve so that we can maintain a better schedule, then we may have to use 64%. That's more of an explanation. But I think it's very important because these are very high numbers if the cumulative uncertainty range is 8% over the three years, 2%, 3% and 3%, that's 240 billion. But if we go to the level of debt, we're talking about 3,300,400 billion, so there's a bit of a difference between us where we have to look and get an explanation. I agree with what. A senator with regard to this comparison of contractions in other nations. I checked the northern countries myself, and there I refer to the International Cash Fund, predicting a recession point of 6◯7%. He's one of the biggest here, 7.2%, and he's the least in Finland, 6%, but it's a very comparable figure. A respectable president. This is what I'd rather give information than have direct answers to the question. A senator and thank him for his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u48	Thank you. A senator and the chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, for the counterargument and for pointing to the things I came into my speech, that we, of course, need to consider these matters carefully at the Committee. It will be very interesting to get the reviews of the parties who will give their opinion on policy. It's in the foundation of the same parties and made comments in their previous policies. This work is always very helpful and very important to us on the committee. Then I mentioned financial counsel specifically. How important it is to hear their opinion of what is presented here! Hopefully, that explanation for what I have not been able to understand clearly in what is being presented today is given to us. Things are a little generally spoken, as I mentioned, and I stress that we get a good time for the work ahead of us and can use it well. Of course, there are some special circumstances now, meetings of budgetors, telecommunications, etc., so it is important that we reach all our viewpoints. It will be a pleasure to hear the comments of the well - known people. It is up to us to see and accept it, as indicated in the concluding statement of the report, that this law on public finances and the criteria laid down in it. Well, then we can text it here at the Congress Hall, if that's the case. And if not, it needs to be harnessed, and this includes our work within the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u49	Mr. President. We will review financial policies that, of course, need to take into account the unprecedented situation under which the Icelandic economy is going on. I would like to remind you, though, that we also had to reevaluate financial policy last year, which was for Covid. It shows how weak this financial system of governments is often based on. When the direction had to be revised year after year, we pointed out that many things in it were extremely unrealistic, even based on wishful thinking. I'd also like to remind you that last year's round last year in state affairs was up to 70 billion. It was for Covid. 70 billion to the worse. I wanted to draw this out because we are looking to the future only by this policy and will discuss a timely financial agenda. I still believe that this is a projection of over-thinking predictions. Five percent of interest is expected as early as next year. No gang changes in the Icelandic dollars are expected. The decline in unemployment and inflation are expected to be low. Of course, it's all something I can say we want to see, but I don't think it's realistic. We have already said: We need to base on realistic predictions. We haven't seen it in the three years this government has been going on. It is always the same wishful thinking upon which these songs, financial policies, financial programs, and financial laws are based. When will the government learn? As we have been doing here, economics may be viewed as different from the Hauspium. Iceland's going through one of the deepest recessions for 100 years, and I don't think the government's response is enough. I spent the summer studying the crisis, as it were, in the case of students how governments reacted in the Great Depression nearly 100 years ago. I also took a very close look at what the government did in 2008 and 2009 after the collapse of the bank. The experts used to agree: The main failure of the government was to do too little. A minister has said that he prefers to do more than less, but that's just not the case. We can see this on the scene when we have received visitors who have just called for further action. It is virtually impossible to do too much in such situations, when the demand falls completely out of control. We need to take this seriously and we need to create a demand, a public demand, while the demand is in the private sector. That's what Keynes taught us 100 years ago. That's what Roosevelt did. These are the rights and the left controls doing everything. Of course I know that the government is doing good things, but I want it back to good works and to do more. There is more to be done, the minister, and the government have political support to do more because the problem is greater, and of course no one wants it. This is called for harmony and solidarity, and we have shown it to us in government opposition. We've been Critic about what may be said, sooner or later, we're a part of it, but we've called for further action. Take a look, for example. ... withoutemployment. I'm gonna give you two numbers. There's 20,000 people out of work in Iceland. 20,000 have rarely been as high as predicted by the fall of unemployment. Another: There have been 20,000 missing jobs in the Icelandic labour market, so the work market has reduced, and then there is unemployment. These are huge numbers. Unemployment is economic and social, and it is health - damaged. It's a lot of grief with unemployment. Of course, it is an economic blow, but it is also a blow for the person and the family who relied on that income. We live in an expensive country, and we need, like, a whisk. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir has repeatedly pointed out to distribute the stocks. We cannot allow the tens of thousands of unemployed Icelanders to bear the load. There's no one alive, chief. Minister, at 240,000 bucks. by tax. No one does. We need to take this group better. These are our friends, our fellow citizens, our relatives. These numbers are so gigian that we have to make it possible for these people to live here because otherwise we simply get people's debt problems, they don't stop living. I have also examined that question, participated in this decomposition during the summer: Will rising unemployment benefits reduce job participation or discourage people from looking for employment? No. This argument has been made by economists, and I have studied from Yale, Harvard, and Moody's, a lot of discussion about this in the United States, showing that this does not happen. In the United States, unemployment rates are even higher than the minimum wage. However, this does not reduce job participation or job search when the job situation is the way it is. There's no job missing in Iceland. Nobody chooses to be out of money. Of course, there are some examples, but let's not take such a basic talk about a single, small, exceptional group. Generally speaking, Icelanders want to win, people want to win. It's what they want to do, but there's no work to be found. Hence, we need to put our arms around that group in a much more handsome way. Let's raise unemployment improvements, the base. I promise you I will. However, the minister that people will continue to look for employment and look for a suitable job. Let us keep that in mind. When we raise unemployment rates, we increase consumption because people with low incomes have no choice but to spend their income. It's a product of multiple effects. This is what matters to create the demand. If anyone's got 240,000 bucks. Of course, after his taxes, he destroys everything he has. He's in that position. We must agree that in such a deep crisis that is worse than 2008, we must try to stop poverty from occurring. Long - term inactivity causes so much sorrow and waste, and it is something that all of us can agree that we need to respond. But we too need to give these people hope. To be honest, I don't think I'm very positive in the maps. We've called for an investment campaign in the United States. Where is it? For the first time, I see in a piece of paper from the government that it is referred to an investment campaign 20203 and forward. That's a good thing. Of course, I have not seen the effort, but I certainly hope that there will be good and good, both efforts to strengthen the public and also the personal enterprise. New creation is a magic word throughout the crisis, strengthening the private market, but we also need to strengthen the official infrastructure. Many of them were in trouble for Covid. Do you remember the discussion about Land Hospital in January, before Covid arrived? Then the hospital staff used words like a medical emergency. It was not a word of government. There was a number of problems in public for Covid, let alone now. That's why I was referring to a debatt of the highest. Minister on the concierge requirement. She matters. If she's so small, like the highest. Minister said against me, why doesn't he let her go? Why are we maintaining a requirement for schools, nursing services, and hospitals? There is no need for this, and the business of these parties is expanded to the limit today. If this is of such utmost importance, why not not? Actually, it's a few billion. A few billion are, we've gotten a little blind on numbers, but it's important. Knows the governor of the Hospital, e.g. that he's holding on for the next three years? Does the director of the health care board know that it is a trust case? According to this new piece of paper, the old bramble is inside. I'm calling for us to change that. There's no mood for calling out for support at this time. V.E.G. A minister may call after we get out of this hole. Then he can fight for his government maintenance. This is just not the time, Mr. President, to set up this special contingency requirement. It's there. I know it's not a new requirement, but it's the old bramble, and I hope to the highest. Minister and minister. Councilmen left green and advance are ready to take it out. Of course, we'll deal with this again when the financial programme comes, but this is important and is a wet rag in the front public institutions. This is also true of the schools that are now receiving an application by people who are looking for further study because of a poor job situation. Why does school still receive a requirement? There are things in the public system that do not have legal requirements, such as I could in the past. Why can't we do that? Not ready now, a minister said: "I'll cancel the demand for hospitals and schools. It's now Covid, there's a tremendous strain on a member of the individual organisation, and this may not be the time to impose a special requirement for it. V.E.G. President. [[The president calls.]] I think these are the main points we're discussing here today from the Union, from my side of at least, but, of course, we'll take a good look at it when it gets there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u50	A respectable president. I just want to mention this in the context of this discussion about the requirements for maintenance in the current financial programme, and we intend to continue in, to counter the maintenance requirement - some of which is 0.5%, as is the case with health institutions and education, 2% elsewhere, and so are the numerous members of the state's team completely excluded, of which there are 0% requirements - new funds. It is the final outcome that humans must consider. When we examine evolution over time, it is evident that in most areas of concern. A senator mentioned the rate of growth. Even though we have been working on very low and limited general requirements, as I have been describing today, 0.5% in some sensitive areas, we are opposed to new budgets that lead to over the programme period increasing expenses. This can be read from the financial program we are working with. We have said that government agencies can rely on them to keep financial funds. That's our basic line. In addition to this, we say that there will be financial gains due to increased projects directly related to the epidemic. We're going to a special investment campaign, but we also say that we want to reinvest our government, and I'm just going to say that we're in a lot of trouble in that area. We can do much better. We have shown this by example. We've been trying to launch special projects, such as reevaluation of bills, but I'm telling you, as secretary of finance for many years, that money can be done much better in many parts of public business.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u51	Mr. President. We may not agree, but since I have the highest. There were two things the minister in a straight line couldn't find out about here. The financial programme says that there will be no improvement in the implementation of the welfare system over the next few years, but it will now be a quote: ◯... unless there is a corresponding reduction of costs in other transfer systems. Transfer systems are improved systems. If it's true, then I understand that in my case, a dollar of the decline, which is part of the transfer system, will become, for example. Not taken away on your watch, chief. Minister, unless there's a decrease somewhere else? [[Yeah.]] Question two is, what happens in 2022 when this financialism has its place? Will the strict financial rules that the independent party fought for the positive balance of the government over a period of five years and instead of a relatively rapid subsidies? I'm going to the top. Then, in 2023 and until now, a minister of bloody surgery? The financial rules call for it, they're pretty tough. Or the highest. When the time comes, do ministers abandon them? This plan is only 2022, I'll figure it out. But I'm calling for the Minister's vision. What happens after 2022? Would it not be more reasonable to extend this process and not have this cutdown on people who make use of public service, whether aged, desperate, academics, patients, or poor people? Why don't we extend this a little bit? We can do this now and primarily owe ourselves. Is it not a more reasonable and humanable way of not allowing these hard financial rules to enter, so to speak, in 1923? It would be nice to receive clear answers from the highest level. Ministers about these two things, the improvement system on the one hand, there's no cash in it according to this, and then what happens after 2022. Will we see the cutting knife in the air, or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u52	A respectable president. Only on the legal basis. I made it clear in my history that in this fall, it is waiting for us to discuss how we can make sure that it ensures the needed flexibility we need in order to use economic stability in a reasonable way in the coming years. So I agree with you, and I think it would be too harsh in two years to go straight into meeting financial regulations. But there's a discussion I think we'll have to take in another half. With regard to the transfer systems, we are only very honest that the economy is in a free fall, and these are not situations in which we can say, "We'll draw butter of every straw. " Now we can share the goods that flow to us from every riverbed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u53	You didn't say that, either.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u54	But you see, we did it because when we look back on our social security and just look at our pensions alone and it's increased to 100% in the last 7◯10 years, an increase of 100%. When I arrived at the Ministry of finance, we were paying about 40 billion dollars into the pension system. The figure is over 80 billion, and this is taking place in a low - level period of inflammation. Take a look at the history of the income, consider the purchase power of these groups we are taking here, consider the cost of improving disability recipients and pension workers. We returned to that country, and as we look at this age, we see that older citizens are the number of Icelanders who have paid most of all in recent years. The most. Not only did the transfer systems come into existence but, of course, they also see that people are gaining increased pensions. But the increasing pensions people had made is not disappearing all in the carts, but we've been improving our systems. And with regard to a penny in return, we no longer have that phenomenon after the latest changes. [[The president calls.]] We have reduced this decline, which was originally conceived as an supplement, a sort of replacement for lesser ones, and was introduced to the president of the United States in its own time. But we still have to finish reforming the microenergy pensioner improvement system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u55	Mr. President. Excuse me, I was a little confused, but if I understand the right answer to the answer, or what it was, it's the highest. Minister willing to soften the blow a little, i.e. that financial regulations will not work with all force in 223 C.E. It is of great importance, and the United States is truly united in bringing about this crisis, and this blow does not strike on the contemporaneous groups. But there is a red thread in the direction of the superiors that we try to place our burdens. We'll see how it all goes. I think the political bitch of winter's gonna be a little bit concerned about this. In what way and how fast will we reach that slope that is historically high? There's something original here to think about. Of course, here we need a valuable creation. There's tax reductions to be considered here. V.E.G. Ministers are always suing us in the United States as some tax raise party, but I just want to make it more specific that the Conspiracy has repeatedly spoken for tax losses. We reduced income taxes to individuals. But do you know how we did it? We raised the personal discount. We've dropped the capital tax. But do you know how we did it? We set up a vacation goal. We've dropped the value tax. How did we do that? We all started work. Thus, we have repeatedly spoken about changing prices and trying to lower prices to consumers. We certainly want to increase demand, but we want to use the power of the government when it comes to the government's affairs. That is what separates us from the Independence Party. In terms of the improvement system, a small amount of dollars is still in place. She's 65% now. [[Up front.]] Yeah, she's 65%, remember? We dealt with this last winter, so that a repeated promise will not be fulfilled if it is still there. This is what the Organization has repeatedly pointed out to us, that we need to take the step to the full. Of course, it is a tragic message for disability and for others who rely on official compensation that they do not receive additional injections, just at the time when they need it, unless there is a reduction from somewhere else. [[The president calls.]] Here, Mr. President, we can do better with regard to the groups that were in our society. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u56	A respectable president. Money policy is an interesting document. It is filled with interesting words but less about what I would like to call goals. Granted, a limited frame, minimum, or peak is set as appropriate for debt, total living, and the like, but it is not clearly defined what should be the result and the impact of their goals. If, as the financial policy puts it, our goal is to bring the economy out of this economic situation, how do we get out of it in terms of, for example. inflation or procreation? That's what I traced back to the minister of finance earlier. Even though there is a tremendous change in the pavilion rate, economic forecasts are expected to produce a lower level of inflation. That's a 9.1% deviation, actually a point, from what was expected. The game is changing by 9.3%, but it was only supposed to change by 0.2%, according to plan of 2020. Despite the process of illness, we cannot see inflation. That's very interesting. It can be assumed that it is because of the Council Bank's actions on decrease in interest of interest and so forth, that money policy works in this respect. However, when there are weaknesses in the economy, you can have inflation goals and weaknesses in other places, e.g. in unemployment, instead of inflation. We seem to be seeing this, unemployment has gone on as a result of the current situation and is understandable, but when we look to the future in the national forecast as it is stated, we will see that in the next year, when economic growth is to be restarted and we come out of the present crisis and are back on our way, we are predicted to be 6.7% of unemployment. So the money policy, the government's policy for inflation goals, is mainly in the national interest, but there seems to be no policy on keeping unemployment to a minimum. Unemployment is as damaging in general to different groups, as is an increase in in in inflation. I find it interesting when governments come here and work out their goals on how we should get these things really intense because of financial policy that the impact of the policy will be on all the analysis that Haguen makes is 6.7% unemployment next year. The goal is not clearer than that it is simply said to reduce unemployment. It's very unclear how much. If based on the blackest projections, as mentioned in the report, it is not likely to reach a better outcome than 6.7%. That'd be great. But how much is that because of government policy? How many new jobs does government policy provide? Especially when we look at the great lack of innovation in relation to other expenditures, there is a real shortage. We saw in the reviews of different parties when we were discussing funds that there was more room for money and opportunity for innovation than there was for new ones. There was room for development, for school, for Ranni's and for the private sector as well, on a number of grounds. I miss this in financial policy, in discussing the objectives and the terms given on public finance that deal with the baseline values below, on firmness, transparency, stability, sustainableness, and caution. In fact, this is the case with an article on page 19. 19 with President's permission: It is often as important as it is in the days of today's uncertainty. The development of financial policy now and financial plans later in the fall involves transparency... In view of this, if there is supposed to be transparency, straddling, sustainability, caution and stability in government policy, and the objective of making financial and financial contributions, it is very strange to the government to make that contribution. It was to appear in spring, but now appears several months later. Meanwhile, uncertainty still exists. The purpose of financial policy is to set a basic objective, e.g. inflation, unemployment, the State's debt, the public in general, and the rest of the streets, by explaining how economicism affects them. It's not done. If the evidence was presented, the transparency mentioned in financial policy articles would be restored. The problem is that simply presenting financial policies does not automatically meet the transparency requirement unless there is evidence there. They're not there. As a result, as we have experienced quite often since that code began, the transparency hook, which is at the beginning of public funds, has been totally ignored. I think I can count on one hand how many times we've been given any information from the government outside when they say, "Oh, we've got to put in a new budget, then we've got to say something about how things are going. Congress does not receive any regular information on the situation. As a result, when the partial reform was adopted, it was assumed to cost nearly a billion. Of course, changes were made in the council, which were at expense. It was not worth the cost, but the government estimate was less than a billion. Changes made were somewhat costly, not too much, beyond the plans originally made in the bill, but the testing took ten times as many at that expense. We did not know what the trend in these expenditures was until suddenly, when a financial bill entered the council that 25 billion had been spent, not this 1 billion, but 20 billion, and some billion, almost 30, if not more. There seems to be a misunderstanding about how to approach public finances, how to obtain the financial resources that the General Council, the fund, provides the European Commission. The Council is not going to be able to say: All right, here's the law, and we expect it to cost less than a billion. Then go and destroy 25 billion, 35 billion, or whatever, some tens of billions. Then come and let us know when you've spent tens of thousands of billions of dollars, we expected you to destroy. It may well have been a good investment for all this money. We just didn't get to make that decision. Still, that is our decision. It is our to get logical support that these government spendings are better than any other government spending to achieve the desired result, e.g. In terms of unemployment and varied jobs. We didn't get that chance. It's an interesting document, but it's totally useless at our work here at the council to appreciate our role in managing funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson. I make comments to the concluding words, and the writing is no more useless than here we are, and we will discuss them. I think it's very important in the context of public finance, such as the driving force. In fact, in his speech, a senator gave us a clear framework for financial planning and the budget that we are doing here each year. That's the context we're looking at. I thought there was an interesting point. A senator mentioned in his talk on the connection between unemployment and inflation. Many economists have been dealing with this. The Gjarna refers to the theories of the Neoplimental economist, talking about the Phillips process, as well as the link between prices and pay and unemployment. The core point is that full - time employment aims and prices are totally in conflict. I'd like to link this union's struggle with better terms, and the benefits we have achieved as a community in increasing the cost of money and increasing the pay. In these circumstances, there is concern that insurmounting a dollar, inflation may trigger. Do not companies have as much potential opportunities as they used to consider increasing pay costs to the prices and more pressured to manage by reducing their jobs? [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u58	A respectable president. I said that the plowing was useless in view of the council's surveillance. Yeah, sure, we're discussing it, and I'm saying exactly that, that I can't point out financial policy afterwards and say, "Hey, the goal is here. It's supposed to be caught with this, and then I'll tell you a year later: we didn't achieve our objective, but it's for a number of reasons that are natural and explained and that's fine. Or it was unrealistic, or so forth. So we will never have an opportunity to determine whether reason is sufficient to achieve the desired effect. That's what's missing. The purpose of the government, which is within our currency - we have the economy that we really control down to the currency - is, in the absolute balance of our economy, to control the wealth in the economy and to ensure that inflation does not creep and that we also agree that we can produce what we can produce. Unemployment means lost opportunity for production. It plays into a specific void that is formed, which can lead to sparkling and increasing inflation, and it is a complex relationship between them. But if we completely ignore the unemployment, we are also ignoring the possibility of the community that we could achieve if we could simply use the inactivated force. We are in the situation right now that all the manpower now out of work is not lost, at all, it's just taking a break right now. True, it is in certain professions that may not be easy to restart. But there is the need for the public to bring in a innovation, since economics do not seem to have the economic capacity of being able to come in strong enough to create new jobs. So the balance of the State's economy on the other side must mean minimising unemployment as much as possible. True, it is possible to go too far if there is some natural unemployment, which we will never find out where, unless we try to approach it. In recent years and decades, however, the power of riches that we have experienced is very variable. In fact, it is stated in the history of income that the secretary of finance referred to, that most of those who earn most of the money. In order to say that we are living under increased quality of life because of greater power of money, people need to be examined. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u59	The explanation of this long and thorough opposite. The senator's name is that the clock froze in the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u60	V.E.G. President. I'm not surprised it was frozen. I froze myself. This was thought to be academic and interesting, but at the same time it was extensive and many other variables involved. Hv. A candidate talks extensively about the laws on public financial matters, often doing so very well and at baseline. One of the important baseline characteristics is stability. We often talk in politics about that concept. Stability is for many things very important. The purpose as long as possible. A senator has, at least I took it out of this explanation, to smooth the fluctuations. We will be better off making decisions. I was fishing after my question and discussion about the transition between inflation and unemployment that there may be progress in economic management - now we may not have enough history of the framework of public funds to say anything about it, but I think we're getting better involved in business and government policy. We don't have as much time between the crown and other variables, when short - term contractions and the unemployment they bring, when we think about the prices, that we'll walk out of such a crisis. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Here's the bell. We're in the middle of a question that I could stand here much longer. But I appreciate the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u61	A respectable president. I was thinking about the clock. She jumped at something weird. That's weird. She's got two minutes. This is weird. We need to take into account now that in recent years we have maintained relatively good prices for inflation. The late bank has contributed to its growth and development. But it's just becoming unusable. Yes, we can go to negative growth and thus to something similar. However, it is the government budget that will soon need to be taken care of along with the Federal Bank. The latening bank cannot maintain stability on the index value of consumer prices much longer. And if unemployment takes off the plane, it's something the Navy has no control over. Then it's totally on our shoulders here and the government working out that problem. It is difficult to examine the steady state as a baseline because it is a small variety of concepts. I'd rather concentrate more on the sustainable concept. It's a little interesting considering that foreign tourists who come to the country are not part of our sustainableness, they're added. We need to take into account the possibility that there may be a high degree of fluctuations, such as in the pandemic. I think there was a problem and an underestimate of the sustainable concept of public finance so far. It has not been given sufficiently to consider, overemphasis on stability, which does not necessarily result in unmotivated economic conditions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's definitely going to be mood swings. We have to admit it, but it's the stability that really matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u62	Like what? Congress officials have noticed that the clock is not correct. But the president is following closely, as the Preacher puts it, which is especially true of a talk period here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u63	A respectable president. We're here on finance policy. It was shown that a stone was not standing on a financial policy approved at the beginning of that terms. In the spring of 2019, it became evident that it was needed to be reviewed because one airline broke down. And now we're in the position that the economic effects of the Covid-19 epidemic have become so great that we have to kind of look back a century to find similar traumas. This does not change, however, that if the government had set up right at the beginning of the season of reasonable financial policy, we would have been better equipped to cope with unexpected events. Now, we look ahead to the balance of the state's budget and to a huge debt collection. There are more than 500 billion o'clock watch. Lay on the state funds this year, and the next and next debt of the state's funds could increase to 850 billion. As we passed through the collapse more than a decade ago, the government responded by building expenses. Politicians made beautiful promises of a land of armor that would be struck over their homes and that the elderly and the poor would not be weighed. We know what happened, we know what happened to tens of thousands of homes, and we know the status of older citizens and disability today. Nevertheless, support for the poor, the elderly, and the desperate was cut short, with the disastrous consequences that this group still struggles with today. We know that many people lost their homes in an area of swellings owned by foreign hedges without government protection. Hence, it is only natural that people now worry, and especially after a discussion that was earlier on the subject of Covid and financial policy today. It must be ensured that the State will support social groups that will be most likely to be affected. These are the ones mentioned among the hands, the poor people, the elderly, and the desperate. V.E.G. In the past, the minister of finance said: "Bell and shoulder bond. " It would have guaranteed the interest of senior citizens and disability in the social security system. It must be said, as it is at the time, Davíð told Oddsson the same thing, the then prime minister, and the head of the Independence Party, after the new laws on social security have been passed. In the 69th. The law says that reforming measures should take into account pay development and only take into account the index price of consumption if more practical. Has this been observed? No. It's always a matter of the consumer calculus. We saw an example of this at the end of the New Year when the pay sheet was about 7%, but the rise in older citizens and disability was only about 3%. Therefore, laws and older citizens are not being followed, and microchips do not wear belts and bracelets. It was then established that the social security system had increased by 100%, from 40 billion to 80 billion, and this would be such a good thing for older citizens that they had never seen anything like it. It's true that a large group of senior citizens are doing a really good job. But there is also a large group that has it very bad. There's a large group out there who have it so that pension funds haven't returned to them, as was claimed here. Everything has to be taken into account, all the calculations in the equation. In this context, during this same period of heels, since the social security system is increasing from 40 to 80 billion, the declines in the system have increased dramatically at the same time. It's over 60 billion today. It's increasing. If all of this is drawn in the right line, the worst in this system will have to tighten the duct one more time and a great deal. Then came the amazing claim that a dollar to a dollar was gone. She's not gone, we've just agreed to her this spring in the stockade for all the worst senior citizens in the country, who previously had maybe 70,000,480,000 bucks. We agreed, and I had to agree with it because there was no other way, that they went on 90% of the worst things these people are supposed to survive. Just 90%, they're 90% citizens, 10% taken from them. And everything else they get is a low dollar against a dollar. So now, for the next election, it is possible to dust off the matter and say that they are going to take a dollar off against a dollar of reduced farms and have been in the past few years. And how much has the State saved during this period after receiving a cent of her pension and having passed on it for three years with micromaths? Clearly, there will be solutions if we are to cope with this crisis. The current fishing system must be reorganized to ensure that the resource will be paid full and given e.g. Opportunities are free, that would be national advice now, but not stopping them. Those who are running salmon in Iceland, as we have seen, pay nothing, but Norway pays tens of billions. Why, on the other hand, do we not let them pay, even though only half of what they pay in Norway, using it into the social security system and the health system? Then the tax system has to be changed, and the increase of roughness has to be prevented, and the tax paid for them, instead of taxing those who harden the sea, because they have found wide banks. There are older citizens, underpayers, and out - of - work workers. We need to protect our homes against demands and prevent thousands of dwellings from again gathering on the hands of several rich people who, in turn, make sure that they increase rent prices, raise their rents to the least degree. I've seen some rent raise since 30,000 bucks. and up to 50,000 bucks. in people who can't even afford to raise anything. The insolence is absolute. At the same time, we're accepting 16 billion dollars. A loan line to Illelands. What are we doing to make sure that we are sustainable in food production, self-sustained, e.g. with vegetables? Nothing. Why don't we put money in that we'd be self-sustaining with vegetables in Iceland? If vegetables can be produced abroad, we should also be able to produce it in Iceland. Technology has become so great and perfect that there should not be any problem in triggering a giant vegetable production. But there is no ambition. There is no ambition to go into such things because, as I said earlier, ambitions are like a crown against a dollar of farms. When these laws were accepted, it was the most amazing thing to do that required extra work, an additional tens of millions of dollars to set a dollar against a dollar on it. The government was ready to put you on the job, to change the computer system with its sole cost to cut off those to the limit. I say for my part: I think it's time that the government went away that has no more ambition than that it's ready to pay and increase the debt of state to cut those who should be least cut off. She could have saved tens of millions of lives there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u64	Mr. President. We'll talk about financial policy, which according to the law, is due to be done for five years. We are now reevaluating it, so it is safe to say that this is a good time. We face situations that we do not know in many respects and find it difficult to see far into the future. The gjarna is spoken of as being a species of crisis. They are spoken of as being different. Among other things, V-fence is said. Then the contracture looks like a figure like the letter V, i.e. A sharp fall, then sharp reversal; the crisis is not long - lasting. I think most of us have expected, or at least hoped, that we would face a so-called V crisis. Then it began to spread a little bit, and then people started talking about a so-called U crisis, which is where the curve looks like U. Then came a whole new version at a meeting of the bank manager with a bang. The Economic and Business Committee this morning, where the bank manager said he thought the crisis would be shaped like corrrag. We know what it's like. It goes down relatively large, and then it is trampled quite large by what humans load on it. But that means that the bottom can become quite broad. We are spoken of as facing some kind of natural disaster. That may be true, since the source of this crisis comes from nature. We talk a lot about the situation being unprecedented. V.E.G. The secretary of finance spoke earlier that the economy was in a free state. I think we can agree that circumstances are strange and that we need measures that are similar in nature. That's kind of the thing. A person does not deal with such problems merely by fellow humans who have been used in the past or who have been dealing with minor fluctuations or fluctuations that we know and know have their beginning and end. So now we face all of this. It is my opinion that governments are not aware enough or that they will not respond in a meaningful way in this situation and that they are reluctant to make decisions that are bold and important. I will not belittle what has been done. Many of this has been exemplary, and of course, we are so lucky that we have a good health system and have much of it in our own hands. It took the lead in preventing the virus itself and taking care of the disease prevention, how wise it would be to do so. But it is government to deal with the economic consequences of this crisis, this virus, and our responsibility. There they have the richest responsibilities each government has. It's always hard to control in times of uncertainty, but it can be done. Many plans can be set up. A variety of methods can be used. What is an alpha and Omega of dealing with a crisis, dealing with situations that are unknown, is to keep all informed at each stage of the question about what you are trying to do, why you are doing it, and what the consequences may be. It is also possible to provide a measure of forethought under such circumstances. That's why we've been in the Revolution, and we've put great emphasis on innovation. A lot has been done in innovation, I'm not going to underestimate it, but bigger steps must be taken, and they need to be longer. Many people live in confusion. There are people who are losing their livelihood for various reasons, for reasons and in situations that they have no control. It simply does not control the situation. Then the role of the political element is to try to help people deal with the problem in a decent way. Unemployment is one of the greatest evils anyone or family can experience. Whether to raise unemployment rates or how to apply them has been a big debate. We hope, and I believe most of us believe that the bank manager is not beyond control and that we will rise again. But how important it is that we have resources then that ensure that people who lose their jobs, or who lose their business to no business, are helped, and some living and hope and faith in the future. Therefore, temporary measures such as income-related unemployment benefits are put in place for a longer period of time. Certainly it was announced yesterday that extending the income link should be extended, but this is done too soon in my opinion. Similarly, it was announced that a so-called partial improvement method should be extended, which is done for two months. It's too soon too. It is said to be this way because governments need room to determine situations and to know what to do. It's good and true, but people and businesses need to breathe. People need to be sure that they can live through this in the future. There are two and three months insufficient at all. I think it is also wise to make sure that people, especially those who have few. We know that almost all the funds return to the economy and maintain a level of consumption, but it is very important that we maintain it. Of course, there are many things to discuss. [[The president calls.]] I'm just going to give you a problem that I think we have to deal with, but there are a lot of individuals, especially in the tourism service, who have been involved in their own social security and mortgages. [[The president calls.]] There we must take some action.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u65	V.E.G. President. We're going to review state financial policy during the previous year. for 2018●2022. Today's discussion has been quite good in this regard so that it has been set apart. We're staging a framework for the framework of a government budget, and then the budgets. V.E.G. A minister in his background went well over the underlying ground and suggested that we would be in the setting of a second change of course, which, of course, is something that one did not even consider at the beginning of the term that might become the case. However, there is no doubt the need to reevaluate our policies now and the aims of setting up financial issues, the aims for total survival, debt and debt development in connection with property or GDP. Similarly, it is important that we do so effectively with money policy. Earlier today, there was an open meeting. The Economic and Business Committee and the Sentencing Bank, where the bank manager considered the latest conversion in relation to the publishing of money and a regular interest plan. Great currency reserves have been effective in maintaining economic stability here and despite reductions, have been successful in curbing inflation, thus not adding to the impairments that result from the circumstances in which we are in, including, the results of the circumstances in which we live. for disease prevention measures and reduced demand and slowdown associated with such measures that we and the whole world have experienced in the past few months. It was said by the Sea Banker that we were beginning the second half and that the first half had been played well, and the government and the late bank had worked together well. It is very precious, but it has not always been true. I think that the clear legal structure of public finance, and maybe political development and understanding of independent money policy, has something to say, of course, here it is said that the conclusion remains from conversation in question. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Maybe it's more of a feeling. But when we work with this frame, it will reveal or at least give reasons to explore how it develops. Still, it can be said that the purpose of the law is to promote responsible government of public finance, make decisions more beneficial, and therefore better decision making. The fact is that the high financial standing of a government fund, which is blessed and has been built up in recent years by a more reasonable financial regime, makes it possible for us to meet this breakdown vigorously and to support the economy, homes, and businesses through countercontractive measures and to maintain the plans that the government has set up for this year. I don't think everyone agrees that it would be very unwise and incompetent under such circumstances, and it must be solidly consistent that it is never default. The fact is that disease prevention measures, such as the limitation of travel to and from the country, lead to high costs for society. You have seen this in the discussion of the time we have been dealing with this that it is almost impossible to calculate the cost entirely in conjunction with such measures in some comparative study. What we do know, though, is that the effects on society and government funds are very decisive. It is a major loss of income that will at the same time affect the goals that we are reevaluating in our survival, debt, and development in the next few years. It will take us some time to straighten out the economy and to regain the strength of production and valuables. And it is our job here to try to follow them, what is wise to do, and how much time we can give ourselves to deal with them. What is adequate for us to live, from baseline on sustainability and stability, e.g. With regard to the boundaries of policy and so on, each year? That's even. Our assignment at the council and our committees, the day - to - day work of discussing these things, and to reach some reasonable conclusion. Economic pressures depend on a lot of uncertainty, more than we're used to, so I most importantly appreciate the flexibility expressed by a so-called uncertainty vector. I can ask you this question: Is that enough? Hv. Birgir Þiririr Þórarinsson came in part by comparison of a tablet with the maximum reference set, and a report dealing with different scenarios, this is an enormous amount of money in the uncertain range of the given range. For three years, we are talking about 240 billion. If we go to the absolute debt value given in 2022 to be owed 64% of our wealth in one year, there is a difference between 140How50 billion. Of course, we need to examine it, and it matters when we nail it in this direction and walk into what potential we have in the years to cope with it. I appreciate it so much that we need to explore the context of uncertainty and debt boundaries and then the baselines that set us up certain limits for this job in the state-of-the-art budget. When we look at credibleism, there is no infinite scope. The financial adviser pointed out from the beginning that we are setting our course in a straitjacket, as it called it, i.e. that there wasn't enough flexibility. The vigil of policy life allows for better planning and better able to cope with the changes we look at all equal in the economy from year to year, but perhaps not in the disastrous circumstances we are dealing with right now. I think it's very sensible to draw in this uncertainty range. If I take something out of my discussion today that I feel we all agree on - we can distinguish the paths and other related things that turn into the welfare system and the improvement systems - our job is to defend our jobs, increase the cake quickly again, because the production loss is much in short time and it has happened quickly, creating new jobs. That's the job. We are blessed to be in this country through the years, living at a high level of employment. Of course, having a job, getting involved, and getting involved is the basis for living. It is that kind of community that we have looked to, are accustomed to, and want to build up, and we all agree that this is the project. We will then have to discuss the options, and more will be discussed when we take up a month to discuss the financial and financial programmes and the sectors that follow. We'll talk about it when we get there, but it's only a month.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u66	A respectable president. Is that enough? That's how the chairman of the budget asks the financier of uncertainty. I ask back enough for what? There is no room for planning to be set, according to the chairman of the legal committee. A space to do what? What plans are the highest. The chairman of a legal committee, in effect, to talk about? I asked a secretary of finance earlier that who was meant for unemployment because of this financial policy compared to economic forecasting, whereby six.7% of unemployment is expected next year. How much better will things be for this financial policy? V.E.G. The secretary of finance answered that as far as traffic deaths are concerned and will be reduced, they will be reached, e.g. from 50 down to 25 C.E., the policy is not that 25 people die in traffic the next year. However, a current financial program shows that death and serious accidents should be reduced by 5% per 100,000 people. Why, then, is this not about unemployment? Enlarge the cake, says the chairman of the budget board. Sometimes we can do things that will improve our community without increasing the cake. If we live, for example. to a light bulb that lasts forever lowers economic growth, that's just how it works. Still, there is a better community, and it enters the prosperous society that has been spoken of by prime minister. Where can it be found in this financial policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the questions. I started by faithfully writing them down, but then I realized that they were too many and too big to be answered, at least not to be very honest. I'd still like to stick to the uncertainty problem, because that's an arrangement we changed here with our last revision. Yet, there we were dealing with a changed basis on a much smaller scale. The discussion then was about whether the criteria were really much changed to 10. It simply allowed us to stand in that situation. Then we put in a 0.8% uncertainty gap and were actually following financial advice. It has always been said that we have been pushing ourselves to some enormous goal and have put ourselves in a straitjacket. Once we've wanted to react to the economic trend, we may have become so tense that we just haven't been able to do so, perhaps not go into what is wise to respond to the swing. In these circumstances, all of us say: We need to defend our jobs, we need to create jobs, we need to maintain our public ministry. We need to protect our health and welfare system and we need to meet the health costs of Covid. There's a lot of uncertainty, and we can't just nail ourselves down so we can't meet her. That's why we have to have an inexplicable range. However, it cannot be endless, restricted, and credible. [[The president calls.]] There must be a correlation between the uncertainty margin, the accumulation of debt, which, therefore, takes into account sustainable, baseline-targeted policy. [[The president calls.]] It may be our mission to discern the need for the context. [[The president calls.]] Here we have some numbers on the paper and a report from the Ministry, but we at the council and the budget board need to ask these questions and review them. Perhaps that was the point of my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u68	President must be less than a man. Senators on time limit, two minutes is up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u69	A respectable president. The reason I ask is that we have an enormous goal for inflation. It has been most challenging and successful to maintain that goal. There have been times when that was possible. Unemployment is closely linked to a goal that has, in fact, not been a problem to date but is now a problem. That's why I'm asking, "Wait, I'm sorry. " If this is not the inflation problem, which is longer based on projections than unemployment is a problem, what will we do with government policy? Just as we have government policy on money issues to maintain inflation targets, government policy should be to maintain low unemployment. What are the results of this financial policy in this regard? It is not even stated what is the scope of the uncertainty range here, how much should it simply be used to solve the unemployment problem. That's exactly where economic growth is hidden. If we are able to activate those who are unemployed, we will be quicker to reach the interest that otherwise is lost because those who are out of work are not working together for common goals and valuables that are always being mentioned in this cookie. If we leave the person out of work, we will have a lost opportunity there. I would have thought that this uncertainty gap, the debt we're about to go to, would be new to get things started and get the economy back up right away in order to pay off our debts. In fact, being able to say that this is a financial adjustment action does not mean that it is a debt of the state, in the end, because we are leveling our economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's questions, and I apologize for having gone past an appointment in the previous answer. I think we're gonna do what. A senator may be discussing the same thing and may agree more than is shown in our conversation. To simplify this, we have products that are so precious to us, natural resources, the work force we're primarily talking about, and then, of course, we have the budget. What happens when a recession becomes, and the valuable thing goes down so fast, and that's what humans are talking about, is that the cake gets smaller. The cost of production is that we are not using human resources. So we want to go back fast. The simplest answer, of course, would be to master the virus, open the land, and the tourist service in a positive boom. [[Up front.]] That's what I'm saying, because we're leaving. We don't use the labor as different as having a job and creating something valuable, so it hangs together, it's a circuit. That's why we're talking about an economic cycle. We need economic growth to get the better of it. We'll see it right away on the state funds for the loss of income. [[Up front.]] That is why we are looking at debt development and the goals for survival. We're going to settle for a nap over the next few years. The question is, how long and where is this uncertainty going to take so that we can actually deal with it, if the scenarios prove to be darker than we're working on? They're also put in here because I know why. A senator has criticized the lack of motion pictures. As financial advisers have often pointed out, there is improvement here in the process of making predictions. They're trying to take the job that's involved in the economics and then on. [[The president calls.]] They're working professionally, but often before, and you see it at this job. I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President, but I'd like to discuss this more and more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u71	Mr. President. At the beginning of my speech, I want to celebrate the financial policy presented here. Not because I like it, since it had to be a new course, but it was necessary in view of the circumstances that, of course, are quite unusual through an epidemic of virus that has affected the entire world and including Iceland. I, however, celebrate this financial policy because I believe it is the product required by the Icelandic community for the next two years, i.e. to allow the state funds to go into an enormous exchange of future losses in order to lighten the burden of home and business, and that is done without cutting down on our important public support and welfare systems. Here the government's financial resources are used to create economic resistance and also to ensure a firm stability in today's uncertain state. At the same time, it is being stressed to protect the progress we have recently achieved in health care and health care. Of course, it is now that our health - care system is under severe stress. It has certainly proved in the past weeks and months that much is needed when necessary. Of course, at the same time, it is a matter of concern to see that people may have been reluctant to seek out the non-Covid-related general health care provider. But it's an exit that may not really matter in financial discussions, but it's part of the overall picture of our community. The intense resistance to the economy is driven by valuable jobs and investments. The focus has been on education, innovation, research, infrastructure, environment and climate. There are progressive improvements that highlight these factors that I think we need a focus on and that will be the result of a longer term increase in prosperity. The economic depression we are going through right now - we can totally use the term economic crisis because it has not been so economic in the last 100 years - is affecting the different sectors of society and is also very different in the homes of the country. We must be aware that there are many in the community who travel relatively comfortable economics through this time, although, of course, they make preventative measures to make it necessary for people to change their daily lives. On the other hand, those who are losing their job or who have lost their job because of the situation suffer severe trauma. That is why I feel that, as has been done and proclaimed to continue, the economic activities are directed towards specifically ensuring and protecting the survival of the homes that experience the effects of the crisis. It is where the focus of government action is to be because a good society is not a society in which the State divides all alike but just that the state intervenes and assists where the need is needed. And now in this situation, we do just that with what is suggested in this financial policy, that is, because the state's funds take the economic blow into their arms, certainly increase their debt, but we do it to protect people's survival. Nor can there be any doubt that the uncertainty in this situation is still enormous. The policy is based on predictions, and I think we all hope that the most optimistic stage is going on, but we're all aware that we don't know how this epidemic will develop worldwide or here in the country. Therefore, we must be prepared for further action, and we must always be ready to enter with shame because of the external changes caused by the virus epidemic and the effects it has. As I said at the outset, I rejoice at this financial policy because the debt of a trust fund, which is actually offered in it, aims under the present circumstances to lighten the load of homes and businesses. In other words, it is being used by management halls on the state funds to increase the up - to - date development of its homes. It is also important that when we look to the road so far, we build a system that is better than it was. That is exactly what we do with our education and innovation, so money for this situation is extremely well spent. That's why I especially welcome a new development bill from the highest level. Social Affairs Ministers who will simply make it easier for those who have lost their jobs to pursue further studies rather than to continue a career in the form of unemployment for a certain period of time. This is creating people new opportunities but also creating new and better opportunities for innovation. There are some numbers in this financial policy that we need to dive into. We need to examine the uncertainty that exists in it and get the opinion of other people as to whether this is not the right way, to have space as a bed so that we can do a little dancing on how the economic situation develops toward the virus. But I don't think we have a problem with bad habits. The budget is to go to that job. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to this work because it's extremely important to Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u72	Mr. President. If someone has missed this, we'll be standing here discussing some changes in financial policy for the years 2018,2022. Of course, it is clear to all of us, the spread of a viral epidemic, which has taken us by surprise and has plagued the world for six months and has had a marvelous impact on the world's economy, as well as Iceland, and of course we don't know how it will develop. Therefore, I'm not going to argue that there are insufficient material reasons to change policy in such a way that it allows us to sail through this difficult economic period as a shock to memory and without destroying the nation's professional life and way too heavy to the homes of our country. You're right next door. For example, a Christian woman Steinunn Árnadóttir Turra Ánarnadóttir suggests that the policy allows for a considerable exchange and could provide resistance, as she put it. I'm excited about the plans to run after because this is, of course, just some basic plan. This is expected to be evident in financial and financial programs. Now we need to allow ourselves to talk a little further because it's not just about getting up on the surface but also about where we're going to go. However, there is good reason to remember that this is the third time in as many years as we discuss government economic policy, which should remain unchanged throughout the term, unless something great is happening, as it has been. We also took up our course last year, although the tragic events they faced were much more predictable. Not only when she was laid out for the first time but also for the second time, we criticized that very time, with financial advice, we might find ourselves at high cost. Now I like it when the chairman of the budget board speaks that way. We've changed our course twice, and I think it's getting a little strange. The independent party is often referred to as a stable economic policy, stability, and balance, but it is basically a reminder of the soccer team that regularly demands time-out in the game if something goes wrong and wants the rules changed. I say again that there is reason to change now, but don't forget that there was a huge conflict in the council in its time when the financial order was placed unchanged, making it necessary for us over a period of three years since 2023 to run a government fund without losing weight. And here comes the highest. Secretary of finance up here this morning and says he doesn't think it's wise. The rules are changed over and over because the class does not seem to have rules for itself that need to be followed. This financial policy provides a general objective for the development of public finance, which, according to the financial and economic sites, is well established and should only be reviewed if circumstances are out of control, such as national years or serious economic breakdown. I say again that this is the time to head for a policy, but I'm not sure that was last year. This is the course, but there will be decisions in the next few months that will be important. They will not only have a dramatic impact on the lives of the public but also on society in a shorter period of time but on a very long future. Therefore, all measures need to be based on overall interest and long-term outcomes. I think we need to aim at setting up a new course and building a society that is based on more sustainableity, greater diversity and more equation than ever before. Fundament because all around us have proved to be that countries that are largely equal in size are more powerful, more peaceful, and have greater opportunities to pursue. Diversity simply reduces the likelihood of serious effects; traumas that will hit the Icelandic nation at regular intervals may not have the same effect if we base our work on a more diverse source of support. Self -versity simply because man has been walking in the way of nature, apart from the fact that we have accepted international commitments, we have to build this on a green target. The Department of Economic and Economic Relations says, on permission of the President: The aim of economic policy is to promote economic balance over a longer period of time, thereby creating a better basis for the more efficient use of capital and resources. It is also a government policy to show how public financial stability and sustainability will be achieved. The question, then, is, What is the economic balance? What is the practical use of capital and resources? I guess there's probably some difference between what the answers are depending on who a politician asks and what political party he belongs to. If we are asked in the United States, the economic balance in a high sector and a desirable investment environment that fosters a powerful and varied economy and can endure external traumas -- there we come back to a complex and dynamic, visible business that maintains economic growth, create new products and services and expands jobs, but also that all people in the community have the opportunity to develop and make use of them in their own interests and society all. Therefore, in the United States, we feel that social justice is the basis for economic stability, and we will, of course, be very careful about government plans and criticize any action we take in order to stabilise them. It is absolutely set that the high equation and the high standard of living for all are simply an essential part of increasing production, efficiency, and value. We can see it all around us. Therefore, it is necessary to protect our welfare system in the depths of economic degradation as we now experience it. We support those who lose their jobs and those who get sick while engaging in bold investments that guarantee them new jobs. The main focus is to facilitate the environment of small and medium-sized enterprises, and this can be done in many ways. Last year, the United States proposed the bill of the material, and we do it again in a changed form that is in those circumstances. But in this government, the Independence Party, the ideological opponent of the United States, is wearing the tails and the budgets of the state. The examples show that the lndependence Party's answers to these situations are different from ours. They are often cutting, even though they are wearing disguises like here, overemphasis on unemployable, conservative investments, even watchpoint on the present system. Although a new financial policy is being discussed, it is possible that the state's funds will be slided and talked about the lack of special maintenance measures, however, there is still a 2% claim to every government agency, less than health and education institutions. Mr. President. This morning I found it interesting to listen to a discussion about the Prime Minister's report. I noticed that when it came to a political vision and a fundamental talk, the members of the board were giving them almost wealth. They appeared much more like the common scholars who talked back and forth about disease prevention, even though they did not do so as accurately as Alma, Þórólfur, Thor, and Kári. But perhaps these categories are too far apart when it comes to basic matters, so that they are afraid to publish the disagreement here in the beginning of difficult controversies. However, this clear vision is essential, and we will call for it from individual categories in winter. I will wait for the second discussion to begin after we have heard from financial resources and read the reviews of many stakeholders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi Einarsson, president of the United States, best of speech. What might have set me on fire was that he started talking about a football team, I don't know. There was a number of things in the talk. A senator who gave the occasion, and I can't go over all that in a short answer. But just to be fair and if we talk about the government, we're all talking about time-outs and changing rules. When it's not a good football team, you often have as a soccer coach, hoping that it would be like basketball, that you could just call out for a break, and go over the position and reevaluate the plan that was wrong or adequately set by the coach. This is what we will discuss in this case. We're on the 10th floor. the law on public financial matters, we have a failure and a devastating situation in which we are experiencing a short period of heavy income loss and recession. As for such cases and a review of policy, it says - and now I'm just going to read directly from Article 10. Laws on Public Economics, No. 123/2015, with President's permission: In such cases it is permitted to withdraw temporarily or for up to three years from conditions 7. Reviewed financial policy shall include at least When he was five years old, he did so in the first year of his life when he was five years old. So we are here really following that rule, for it would be unwise and unwise not to reevaluate our policy and to compromise these conditions while setting off the box in order to deal with basic work projects and to create jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u74	Mr. President. I agree with that, and I think I've repeated many times that in this case I understand that we're changing the course, which is better. I wouldn't have wanted to go through this winter on a different course. I hope we can achieve the best chance of defending our systems, defending our homes in the country, defending our institutions, as soon as we can create an interview for companies. But on the other hand, I'm talking about the Declaration of Independence Party and that only he can be trusted for stability, stability, and economic government, while he was fighting for a principle he's going to need to reevaluate later in the year and to direct the Ministry of finance, where the policy has been changed twice. Although I do not comment on the fact that this is the case, the last time we criticized it is because we did not necessarily consider material to do so. And back to the sport; a nice chairman of the budget committee and a fine soccer coach must have called his men together in playtime or given tips on the field and told the players to change rhythms and change plays. I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about that if the coach now tried to influence him, in conversation with the assistant judge, about changing the wrong principle, it probably wouldn't work. But just to make it clear: I'm not making any disagreement that policy is changing this time, and I think it's a good thing, and that's a need for us to deal with the crazy collapse that we're going to have to face. However, we need to start telling how we will do so. That's why we can do that. What an exciting discussion that will take place during the first few weeks of October!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u75	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. He responded well, as I expected. However, I felt that he indicated in his speech that we were even trying to bend the rules that we are not doing at all. I just wanted to get it over with. But, hey. A senator went on to explain his point very clearly. On the other hand, I can take an example, first of all. A senator drags me into football, I can't really lose that opportunity. I remember one incident where we were playing at a temperature of 35 degrees, and the phenomenon had been invented a water forecast, which seemed advisable where players had to water themselves. Then I thought, " No, we don't need this break right now because it's so good on the field. ' And what happened was that we lost the beat and followed it. That's how it feels to be contrary to the times and the times. Thanks for the answer. I think it's very important that we add this frame here. That's what I'm talking about. The senator spoke of whether one category can be trusted by a policy, of course not. As our government organization is, it is very important that all these discussions be passed through the council and that all the budget be placed before the council. On the other hand, I think we agree on this process that we have to set up the box and accept a government fund with a sludge to protect the welfare system, the health system, bring up counter measures on this effect and the consequences of Covid and then look into the long term when we consider the baseline sustainability.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u76	Mr. President. Yeah, well, I might as well call this situation a political water forecast because there's really reason to change things, that's all we need to share. I just agree with what. A senator says that making a square vector is necessary for us to cope with this task. But then time will tell whether we use the angle that is right and the amount of space that is created. We will soon want the answers to come because it is not a secret that we have, for example, the answers. two categories in a government that is based on very different basics, and then we have a group in the middle that has been able to work with most people, and I have very much loved it when it shows the socialism side, which he does very often. I rely on these two groups, the forward party, and the left green, that they now step on the earth and manifest their socialism to a red death. I think it's really important. I'm afraid that if they don't, we can deepen the crisis, we can reduce the possibility of resistance, and bring untold disaster to people for no reason. Let's just hope that in October, when discussing financial programs, we will have to work together in some way on the plans that will be set out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u77	Mr. President. Realty is not a baseline law on public finances. We have discussed this in this hall before, and we have wondered if it might be a desirable goal to aim for a slightly better structure of the government than it is at times. That is why I must commend the highest. Economic and economic ministers for linking this policy a little bit more with reality than you might have feared. Faced with the shock by letting a government fund take its toll is a wise economy. Whether there was any great choice between the two, whether the shock is not that large that by choosing any other route, these straitjackets, sometimes referred to the policy of government government, even had begun to choke us completely. It is good to rejoice over what is done well, but of course we wait to see how financial advisers value their whole policy and how well it communicates under the circumstances and how likely it is to reach the necessary goals. Then there is something to consider - and it is something we do not have to settle on this senator for the summer. Rather, it may be that we are now talking about in the fall - that we are now for the third time in as many years dealing with financial policies that are going on five years, that we are turning aside from the financial rule on which this policy is based, which is exactly the rules that the financial Council says would make this straitjacket. There have always been those rules. Since 2015, when the government law was adopted in this hall, it has been noted that there is a possibility that there is too much too much to do on public finances. Take a look, for example. The debt of the government's debt must not exceed 30% of national production. This was pointed out five years ago when the law approved that this was not according to international standards, it was narrow and inflexible. Now that it has been more than doubled, it is being set up to 64% in the direction we address today, however, there is no tremendous way. Then we are only on the same floor as the Maastricht condition of the euro, some of whom feel a little tight when it is given up. So I think there is good reason to discuss whether there is a need for a new core point to these enormous goals in order to achieve more drastic measures in the face of severe trauma. The same could be said about the base goal of the law. We already see it to run a state fund with about and over 10% tilted three years in a row, according to the policy, that is the right way to get through the sledgehammer that lies ahead. It is not necessarily a physical law that public finances should be inaccessible every five years. Actually, I thought it was the best. At the end of three years, a minister of finance spoke a little earlier, saying that it would probably be too strong to reach those goals. Then we have just arrived at the point where a body board needs to give serious consideration to changing those goals. I would like to read for fun from a memoir of Indriði Þorláksson, which he proposed to the council when a bill on public finances was under consideration in 2015. It says, by permission of the president: It can be said that the financial rules of the bill do not contribute to economic management during the runoff period or in the event of an imbalance but may be unnecessary to work on the consequences of the following recession times. I think it's just coming true. That's what I think. The minister of finance, if he accepted that discussion, would agree much with the way he spoke here this morning. That is good, and it would have disastrous consequences if governments decided to get financial rules started right after the three years. One point I would like to mention is a brief one that has been considered in a series of talks. It is the maintenance captivation and the financial agenda that is beginning to take place in financial policy. It has been pointed out that the older device is still inside, 2% general maintenance and 0.5% health and education systems. V.E.G. A financial minister pointed out that money should still be added to this sector in order to handle more projects. It's the strange Christmas that's going on with the financier when one hand gives and the other gives. The requirement for maintenance is maintained at the same time when money is added. But what hit me particularly when I was reading the course article is on page 6. 19 About how governments plan to achieve a baseline law on public finances. It says, by permission of the president: To achieve these goals, it is clear that the maintenance level of public funds will need to be increased in the latter part of the time of the next budget by slowing down and adapting to the extent of government revenues. I suppose that the next financial program referred to is the one that applies in the year 2021 families2025, the one that we will be considering in the autumn. But it stands in black on white, Mr. President, that it is the intent of the government to get us through that which lies ahead and then go to surgery. We're all going to be together to get through the consequences of Covid, and if we succeed, here comes the first common campaign order of the administrations: they're going to cut down. After a figure of three years here, a cut-off will be offered to the joint campaign code of black rule groups in white. We must congratulate them on being this on time in the campaign, and this is a model transparency. But I'm not sure it's the right course, just not sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u78	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech, but this affidavit. A senator and another boy. A senator, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, was once a political relative. Both have discussed that it is possible that the measures taken now will land on a trust fund rather than on the public. I feel that this is the wrong message because I remind myself of a good word. Chairman of the Board of Sheep, who said at a meeting in spring: We're all state funds. And the government fund is, yes, the common savings to us all, isn't it? So, as the worst waves pass, we need to reimburse both the public and the company at some point. That's why I feel wrong when people say, " This happens, not to the public, but to the public,'because I feel that people there are sending out wrong messages to the public about how things are going to go unnoticed by the public. ' I say again, we are all state funds. Hopefully, this situation will be resolved right now so that we will be restored to wind and be able to rebuild. It may be better when we discuss this now in October that the government is sadly filled with small medicine medicine, as it is now extending its two - month extensions. There can be no healthy person who waits for two months to be extended instead of seeing further into the future. But I wanted to react first. A senator of what I said earlier, that it's going to happen to a public store, not to the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u79	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said about that. This: What we now detract from the state funds need to be reimbursed later. Well, that's not really true. This is not how public funds work. Much of the expenses the government fund is currently taking in order to prevent future future growths. By laying money to prevent long - term noncooperative work20, we prevent health consequences and the social consequences of long - term in between 2030 and 2040. What we enter into the state funds will bring us a better society in the future. So this simple account problem is over. A senator just doesn't feel right. It's not practical to set up a trust fund like this. In addition, the wealth of the Kingdom has the ability to be all of us, so it can equal our opportunities and also balance our chances of suffering as individuals, so that the government fund is taking a blow that might overpower the individuals standing in its shelter. - No, it's something I wouldn't agree with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I still think we're talking about our own thing. Now I don't know what it is. A senator may be so unfortunate to have overwhelming, but those who have an overweight to face even unexpected setbacks or unexpected expenses or temporary changes in employment or something eventually have to pay back. What I mean is that government funds and the public are one thing, and the same is that if we run a government fund with a latrine, as we have to do now for a few years, it just doesn't go away. We will at some point have to balance that situation, that account, to reach them back at some point. And that, of course, we will, by the fact that at some point the public and business will likely have more payment capacity because they have been kept under the cover of the state fund, I completely agree with that. That's what a senator does. But I think it simple to put it this way because the days of debt will come and that's why it's so urgent now to make long-term programs based on the fact that we don't have the taxes to kill. Actually, we have steps to be afraid of. In 2009, we had a government that was going to pay us out of a crisis, and we tried it with dire consequences. Many people lost their possessions and were in a time of hope and are still alive. So we're not going to follow those steps. But there's gonna be a time, huh? Senator, that we need to correct the angle of the state funds, i.e. To repay him in some way when the storm blows. So I find it wrong to indicate that the public is free and free to take the blow, even if he does it temporarily.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u81	A respectable president. To compare them with financial individuals, I feel that it is a fundamental difference in government finances. A person's overwhelming is just a matter other than that a government fund provides public funds by means of a debt payment, simply because the financial investment in the service that we owe them is already in progress. If we're going to have a long-term full analysis of this, as the senator says, it's all taken together. Then it's not like when you owe the bank a thousand bucks to have to pay him 1,200 bucks when it comes to paying money, but you've suddenly acquired some money in a better community, increased health, increased education levels, increased interest, everything about which the state's debt today is about, aside to all the negative consequences of getting rid of it. We get rid of more illness, increase depression, and - well, only increase in unhappiness in the community. I don't know what it is. A senator with the edge of the bank, but I don't think that money will bring him happiness. State funds can add happiness to the community because people do not have to be poor, refuse medical care, starve. Is that not a good job?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-27-132.u82	A respectable president. Of course, in homes where there is concern about the loss of employment or in homes where there is concern over business problems, they do not go unnoticed by their children. I'd like to share a conversation with my little girl during the 2008 Depression. Then we had gone to the bank one day and ran into Mom's playmate. We talked to this woman for a little while, and my daughter told her a very long time from her day, but after we got home, my little girl told me, "It's good that Iceland Bank didn't blow up, and Arnar's mother didn't lose her job. She seemed caught the real situation and delighted that her friend's mother had escaped from losing her job, and because of her joy, I was at the same time having a little difficulty correcting certain aspects of her story, as if this bank didn't quite escape it. Instead, I just joined her in saying that it was good that Arnar's mother hadn't lost her job, as many people did back then. Then she said, "Yes, it's good, for she would surely have suffered the crisis." To her, those who lost their jobs suffered the depression. I thought it was a pretty good thought for a little child. This story came to my attention because by 2020 the very nature of the crisis may be a bit like this. The crisis needs to be considered, because it's a unemployment crisis. The economic cost of crowning is simply a major problem for society, since unemployment is still at least now, closely tied in with a particular sector of employment and meets people in a very different way. Of course, we know the tourism and young people, and I don't think it's possible to overlook the fact that this is a crisis that bites the region very hard. The first crisis in this country has usually been manifested by the weakness of the crown and inflation, and this, of course, results in the loss of the power of most of us. This economic blow is less effective. The demand completely disappeared in certain areas, and the shock struck us with little notice. Nobody did anything wrong. There was no special error in the course that caused this shock. And when demand goes away in certain areas, as it happened today, it has a dramatic effect on the companies and the people who work in the sector while others feel less, even a little bit of the shock and situation. I think it might explain to some extent that while some people are experiencing this situation, perhaps some of the opportunity to reevaluate and reevaluate the way of life, others are troubled by economic and social concerns. Of course, the people in the tourism industry feel the pain, the culture and art of the winter, the young people and the foreigners in the commercial markets, the figures of their unemployment are quite different from those in Iceland. I think this position can be tanned, so the economic consequences of the virus are certainly not biting us alike. In this crisis, it is simply not that we are all in the same boat. With regard to the recent financial policy of the government it seems at first sight that it slightly reduces this economic breakdown - only, not particularly. We've been working on the challenge of losing the power and the vampire. Today, we are reevaluating financialism, and the motive for this is, of course, good. We face situations that we do not know, and we still find it difficult to see far ahead of time, but the picture is becoming clear. We believe that economicism is good as far as it goes, but it just doesn't go very far. It does too little, and the steps are too slow. They need dynamic and more powerful action, and they need to do so right away. Of course, much good is done, and many good things have been done, but the policy does not seem to mirror enough the faith of the government that we are dealing with temporary situations. In spite of all odds, this is a temporary situation. If it is, and if it is vision, it must matter to give people hope that they will survive this temporary hardship and then continue to do it and that we will all be together as a community. That is why you feel that the pace is too small and you take the government too slow because a temporary economic blow, in a state of good debt, simply justifyes that the reaction is strong on the part of the government, and that there is rapid intervention and certainty. Now it would have been a song to set up a plan that would actually raise demand within the country and severely reduce unemployment. It has been discussed here today as to how much longer and less unemployment costs us. I think I can let myself tell you of my previous job with the prosecution that it is indeed an attempt that unemployment has many tragic manifestations. Now, it is important that all of us be together to cope with a temporary economic crisis that, as I say, will bite us in a very different way. It is important to give people and companies and the areas of employment that now have difficulty with expectations and hopes that the situation is initially temporary and after the temporary challenges of the situation are premised to continue. The government is to give a definite explanation of the fact that it is tried, that once this difficult situation persists, we are going to continue. But if the result is 10% unemployment at the end of the year, as is currently foretold, it has, for example, been the case. There is a tremendous impact on demand within the country if people are supposed to be in the position of living at the lowest possible cost. They will not afford to participate in the community, with all the negative effects it has on the person and on the lives of the community, but also on the whole. I would like to rejoice in the pace of the government to contribute now to extending income - related unemployment benefits. That's what I think is both positive and essential. In this regard, they need to reason that it is not only a matter of justice for those to whom it is needed, although they alone should be sufficient to convince you of the rightness of that decision but that it is expensive for society to have people who are temporarily unemployed at the expense that they cannot take an active part in society. Now we have to do all we can to raise the demand within the country, and if we have 10% of the people at that rate that they can't do that, I think it can affect the demand that it contributes even to further unemployment. In the winter, the restoration has emphasized that, in the long run, the reaction must also be so much so that we are building up not just a stronger job life but a more varied one. The variety of employment becomes stronger. We now want to make it easier for people to make opportunities and income by reducing employers' expenses and by setting a focus on education and innovation. They've been put a focus on innovation, but they can do more and more. But again, I'd like to say, we must be going through this together, and we need to give those who face the crisis expectations that things are temporary and that governments have and are going to do everything they can to soften the blow.
