ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u1	Borist has received a letter from the following advisers asking for every request to give written answers to queries, from the foreign secretary for the application of this letter. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions; and on panels. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic government to properly introduced EU types, the European Court of Justice, both from Ólafur Ísleifsson. Finally, there is a letter from the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister due to a petition on the deck. 853, for distribution of sources to fish at macroil, the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u2	At a meeting of the Presidency Committee today, it was agreed to cancel the work-related trips between members of the body and the office's staff until April 30. At the same time, receptions, meetings, and conventions of the country will drop by sharing foreign delegates. The meetings and other events will be sought to find new dates whenever possible. During the same period, it is also strongly recommended that the prime committees and employees not travel abroad unless there is a urgent need for personal discussion. Then, too, the prime committee agreed to meet with them today on the rules of the work and procedure of the prime committee, but the rules are followed by the setting of information legislation now being adopted by the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u3	A respectable president. I want to take advantage of this opportunity to make comments at a meeting today. This series of matters has to do with nationalities, and it is surprising that such issues as obvious political disagreements are on the agenda. Though not all members of the council have strong opinions on this matter, some have. At the end of the 2nd. It can be said that a great and deep review of the matter was made between the 2nd and 3rd verses. The conclusion is that, together, there are no changes in the case between the 2nd and 3rd. This is obvious, and it requires considerable discussion. I don't think it would be a good start on this journey, when it has been called after the peace and cooperation of government and government, starting on the first day of a meeting with a case like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u4	Today's program of meetings will make some changes after the meeting of the president with members of Congress. The last two sessions will be moved back to the last meeting of the day, and one scheduled session will be removed from today's program so that the president considers it an effort to consider the viewpoints of the day. It should be noted that Friday's mail was announced by the president that the day's program would be similar to what was suggested. Finally, there is no need to limit discussion. Wants to play. A senator discuss the matter further?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u5	A respectable president. I want to thank you for that snare reaction. The president is taking the co-operation, so to speak, on a deduction program. But how much wiser it would have been to decommission the national property! However, the teamwork is just going to a committee, where all the handling of the matter remains. This is where we're walking to 3. ...,final talk, about nationalities, so the case is to be closed today. It never occurred to me that there would be some limitation during speech, better. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Since his assessment is that one of the two cases should be taken away from today's program in full measure, it would be quite reasonable to think that it was the case with the local people of the 3rd district. but a matter of cooperation, a work of 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u6	The day's schedule will be no longer round. She will be like the president of the House of Congress before the end of a meeting with them before noon that she would be. The President's office is at the office of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u7	Mr. President. I come up here to take my two minutes to agree and disagree. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. I agree with him that it is important that we have a clear view of what we are going to use in our limited conferences, and I can say that it is special in view of the fact that the peoples of the land are on a program. I disagree with him, however, that it could have mattered to the road work and to this matter, where political vision comes into play. I also agree with the highest. President that there was a discussion at a meeting of the council groups today, and adjustments were made in a better direction. But most of the time, I want to make a decision here that it is very important for a conversation to take place, and I'm just going to take advantage of this opportunity and say I'm surprised to meet the highest level. The prime minister with the directors of the administrations last night, for example. has not been used to discussing such a matter. It's very unpleasant, and there's a certain insecurity if it's happening over and over during the program that we senators don't know where we are about the program unless our time is being limited in the platform.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u8	Mr. President. I agree with what's been going on here, but at the same time, I want to draw attention to one thing, and that's to the highest level. The president has requested that only those who are going to participate in the discussion of the next session will be in the Senate Hall at any time, and that it is a long distance between those who participate in votes, that there is a huge amount of bed being created to try to protect those who work here as best they can. It is increasing telecommunications, and therefore it is a tiny surprise to me that the same group of members are crowded into this Senate hall, that the side rooms are filled with people when we have a position to be in our council rooms and in our offices to observe the program. There's already one senator under siege. The workers are under a contagion. I think we should have deep respect for one another and for the important work being done in this council hall to respect the rules that the president of the council and the office manager try to put here and restrict it as much as we do in the councilroom, unless only just when we have to speak. I think it's most exhilarating for all of us so that the work of the Parliament can be done as natural and necessary as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u9	Mr. President. I have to make comments on the program as she looks, and we have been introduced. We are present at the council in a very unusual situation and various arrangements have been made to limit meetings and overworking. Naturally, we just handle the necessary issues to deal with the situation, we take them away from the government with very little consultation with the government. Is there a meeting of the government on the subject to be proposed? No, they're submitted, and we're supposed to take them out in the Senate Hall. But what happens next? It is not just that matter; it is used in other matters, such as in order to form the national language while a number of cases are waiting for relief. There are plenty of other cases to be taken care of, naturally.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u10	President. I'm gonna start by encouraging the highest. To the gratifying of the secretary of finance, he wishes a success in dealing with the big work ahead of him. We in the Middle East will assist the government in bringing through good things, and in fact, I think we should be dealing with matters of the situation in these days, but don't spend time putting other issues through. Governments around the world have been reporting major measures to cope with the situation. I assume the Iceland government will in the next few days introduce additional measures. I'm going to try to cancel my inquiries with three points and ask the highest. Secretary of the budget whether insurance will be canceled this year. Second, whether or not you can expect direct support from the government to keep people working during the summer, at least through the spring and even through the summer, but do not have to resign people, causing them a great increase in the cost of the money and the economy thereafter. Will direct economic support for enterprises be added to what has already been discussed? Third, what plans exist for monopolys, those who work for themselves, and hence in any special situation if they cannot continue the next weeks or months?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u11	A respectable president. I thank you for the positive encouragement in these times, and I'll come right to the point. It is true that all around us, neighbors, and others, we see governments taking great action. In itself, we have already begun our mission, as well. The recent activities of the SERVANT ensure that financial systems can better care for their role in the narrow conditions in which companies live. The insurance bill is asked, and that's what we're looking at. It is asked specifically if it will be canceled. Such a decision is not available, however, but claims on insurance pay have already been delayed. I'd like to mention that there may be late hours when it comes to postponing an insurance fee that is not reasonable enough to be turned into some kind of support. But I have to say, the insurance route is small next to another large operation that is being discussed here today, and we need to go much further into the stitches, which affects it as a dog. A senator asks for the direct support. Today's council is discussing a case in which the State is offering just to sign people's payroll, that companies keep the recruitment relationship in force, but the state starts to pay large amounts of the salary through a supporting system. There is nothing but direct support. He's going to reach monotonous too. Lonely ones will benefit from this, as we can call them "alienists, " or independent. You'll have to do well with the tools that I like with the way cases have developed over the last few days that you may need to expand your options as presented here as a special bill. I hope I've answered that with the insurance bill and the direct support and the self-employment process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u12	Mr. President. I'm asking the highest. A minister who points out the largest category in the government whether we can expect the government to more fully indicate what might be expected of further action to deal with the state of health, finals, and so on. Some schools have been closed after infections have developed and people have even been sent home to their homes. Then we get numbers about it or theories about it, about that. 1% of people, at least Here in the capital area, they may be infected. If that were the case, if it was 1% and relatively equal, it would mean that at a school of 500 people, 99.34% are likely to be infected, in other words, virtually certain. So you wonder, " Is it not to be expected that the government will require further closures and whether the government will prepare for this with support to parents who will need to be at home to protect their children? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u13	A respectable president. This is where arrangements are taken that may not be in the custody of my Ministry, but I can express myself as far as I know. We take away our best counsel about dealing with the situation. We Icelanders are looking considerably more than all other countries are doing in an effort to have the correct information about the spread of the infection. In particular, during the past few days, new rules have been set in place, and we see how they are already working. We have university and high school for telecommunications, and other schools are adapting to this changing rule. When asked whether there will be further progress, it depends on how much it will bring in in our efforts to minimize the risk of exposure to health care. This is about how we can treat those who become infected and become sick.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u14	President. The spread of Covid-19, the borders and recession of the world's economic system will have a major impact on Iceland and the Icelandic economy, with its impact on individuals, families, and homes in the country. A financial minister speaks of 100 billion dollars in 2020, so our response to the government's budget is highly important and that we make arrangements for the government's affairs so as to minimize the harmful effects of this economic degradation on the companies, but also for the people. The public has been concerned, understandable, that is growing up in international news about the closing of entire economys, the lack of goods, and the collapse of markets, while the Icelandic government has been most late, unfortunately, to inform the nation of what is really going to happen. And now I know the procedures that have been announced. But I'm talking about, where's the big package we're seeing in neighboring nations, this big operation, the investment in the people of the country? So I want to give it to the highest. Secretary of finance this opportunity to inform the people of the country what to do to protect their country's homes because they are intimidated, President. I have no doubt that many fear that history will repeat itself from a collapse in which people lost their homes, income, security, and quality of life. I'll ask you what's going to happen. Ministers to protect Iceland's safety and quality of life?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u15	A respectable president. Of course, it's just around the corner. A senator that we will see a major impact on the economy and our role, and our actions are aimed at minimising that impact to the extent possible. This is called 100 billion tails. I made it known to earlier today that, on the basis of what we know today, it was likely going to be a minimum of 100 billion squares and well over that. I'm not gonna tell you today if it's gonna be 200 billion tails. We don't know. Now, all recent measures are under added pressure to all economic activities, e.g. A travel service that will have tremendous impact here in Iceland. They're talking about what we're gonna do to protect the people, not just the companies. So I'm gonna be a spokesman for this going together. When we support a business to keep people on payroll, we help the people. When we take some of the pay on the state funds, we help the companies, yes, to keep the work going, but we're losing the money so that people don't lose their jobs. This is closely related. At the council today, there is a bill on this subject that I believe needs to be done well in the stitches and I know that the Minister has been preaching a good partnership with the council on how we're going to achieve our goals. Where are the major operations? questions are asked. What actions are being referred specifically to? It would be expected to refer to the actions of bank accounts and governments which have been in charge of funding and payment on public expenses. This is what the big nations are doing. There may be evidence to indicate that we should be spending more money, even by state responsibility, to companies. There are major measures in Norway, Denmark, and elsewhere. We'll look into it. But that certainly isn't according to the definition of the whale. A senator's procedure that is particularly thought-of. But I intend to be a spokesman that we will reach many individuals by building a bridge over this period of time. [[The president calls.]] We must simply have faith that, in turn, there will be better times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u16	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I realize that companies make jobs, but I wasn't asking about them directly. I'm trying to get a minister to put himself in the shoes of a normal Iceland, and I'm trying to tell him what he's going to do to protect the human being, not the agency that the person works for, the flesh and blood who's afraid of their livelihood, who's afraid of his mortgages, the desperates who fear that the benefits are too low, the people who fear the inflation, or the fall on the crown. We are talking about students who fear that they will no longer be able to study. There are so many things going on in the community, other than the way we can help the companies. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: What does he want to say to people who are concerned about society?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u17	A respectable president. What we say to people who ask: " How does this affect me? is primarily this: We know the problem, we've started, and we're going to consider all the factors presented here. First, we want to consider professional security. Without professional security, there is tremendous fear inside the home. We also look to the financial market. Here's the address. We will demand that financial institutions allow space through the most difficult times, and we have already seen evidence that financial institutions will. This also includes measures made by the Federal Bank, increasing financial resources for such measures. Similarly, we will look to what may be necessary in a school loan system that is referred to. Regarding inflation, we do not assume that it will be comparable to previous inflations. But there is simply so much uncertainty now that prophesying is not good. Hopefully, we will get through this properly so that the negative effects of inflation will not be revealed to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u18	A respectable president. In the incredible situation of our society today because of the Covid-19 virus, I still worry about the worst in our society, about people who are in the terrible position of worrying about their status over the virus, and the fact that they don't have enough pensions from the TR to cover food prices and other needs. So I ask the highest. Social and child-friendly minister after our discussion at the last unprepared time, and I sincerely hope he is not hiding under the skirts of the countryside by putting everything on them: the farm society is to care for its clients but the clients are the highest. Social Affairs and child - care ministers are the ones who receive payment from the state insurance agency and those under it also have children, and it's his department's job to make sure it works. I'm asking about a Fed Control Committee, the church's Help Committee, and Iceland's Family Help. Will the government strengthen these members so that they can keep food gifts and prepare for what needs to be done? Then there is something else that has been forgotten, and there are individuals in the country. The end of the world isn't here in Reykjavík. There are people out in the country who receive benefits from government insurance, disability, and older citizens who do not have the opportunity to contact about food aid. What is to be done for them? I ask, doesn't he agree that we're less active at the government insurance agency? Let us do so so so that people who are concerned and who know how to get in there can go in there, share their concerns. Will he arrange to strengthen these individuals, whether for food, medicine, or other, who really need it to survive in those times? We're helping the strong ones in the financial system. But we must not forget these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. All the lawsuits that hear under the Department of Social Affairs turn to groups who are in a more delicate position and really need a special fortune. It's a pleasure to say that we've been working on these last days, and I introduced it even. to the welfare committee yesterday, how we were going to handle this project. Hv. A senator named one group that truly needs attention, as well as all around the country, considering that circumstances may eventually gain much more weight before it begins to lose weight. That's why we took it into account this morning, i.e. The Department of Social Affairs, the Union of Iceland and the Ministry of Ministers, set up a specific response team that will be responsible for these three members, with staff from all these agencies, alongside a scoring team that is being set up so that social security can be called out for these sensitive groups and that funds are set aside in a special response fund to react. In this group, local representatives are being assigned because we have to include our communities. That's our close-up service, including... all around the country because the senator spoke of the country. This response team will meet for the first time tomorrow. In this work, we will link all the stakeholders associated with this category, whether it's the Microcollar Community, the Developmental Alliance, the National Association of the Old Citizens, the rural communities all around the country or any of the many member organisations involved in the important work in the Icelandic community. Indeed, the next few weeks will test the way we manage to hold these together. This will be a challenge, but we're going through this, and we're going through it in good cooperation with all these parties, as well as with the Senate welfare committee, as I did yesterday at my meeting with the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to know the answers, and I support him with all my might on this, and I sincerely hope that this will get done and it will come about quickly. We must look back at the story as well. How was the crash? Who Were Left? It was that group. He was down 10%, but he didn't get it corrected. He is the only group that has not been restored ever since. And this is the only group that has been promised repeatedly in return for a small amount of money. There are still 65 pennies against a dollar. This is the group that has been betrayed to this point, and I hope so much and fervently that we will join together now and make sure that the group receives and receive the ministry that he is to receive now and that it is now righteous. I would also like an answer: Will the government support the food - sharing institutions? Will it strengthen them financially so that people can be given vitamin D, vitamin C, lighting and what these people really need, and may not be often on their shopping list?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u21	A respectable president. As I said earlier, we are setting up this action team to begin immediately tomorrow, going over a number of things that have already begun and are being brought up daily into individual communities, in individual groups, and planning what ways to react. In this regard, I also said that we would set aside certain funds to make sure that no one would be left behind in the challenges facing Icelandic society. So my answer to this inquiry is, "We've started this formal partnership. Men will begin immediately tomorrow. The next article will address these challenges. About how they're solved, I'm confident that all the people who are going to put in that bag will find out what's best for them. Then the rural society and the state power are ready to provide funding if necessary and for the specific things I trust to come out of this work. This is one of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u22	Mr. President. Those are unprecedented times. This is probably the most frequent phrase that has been heard in the last few days. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister has announced major operations, that it pays to install more than less, and is deeply in agreement with him. Now we're getting a presentation from the highest. Social and child - care minister on two issues involving part-time non-employment due to a decrease in employment ratio and temporary payments due to the salary of the persons under field conditions. I'd like to ask the highest. Social Ministers to comments received from ASI on the other hand and from the firms of professional life at the time of the last week of these bills. The bill was converted to government management, making it appear that after changes, the lowest wage, the incomeiest. To have over 80% of this proportion and to maximise payment will lead to the big partners at the labour market, i.e. ASI and the activities of the industry, they will not be able to recommend that they have a decreased employment rate. The combined pay from the employer and unemployment rates must not exceed 80% of the pay and in the individuals at the lowest wage available for total tax pay 317,000 will go to 254,000. A person with 400,000 goes down to 220,000. These groups, the highest. Minister, simply cannot take on such a reduction. That's why I want to start by asking the highest. Minister if it has been calculated at the government table not to have the limitations as these members strongly stated. It seems to me that this case is going to still be born if it's going to go through the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Before I answer that question, let's figure out the time line that was involved in the process of doing this. We had assumed that we would take one or two weeks, which is a short time to build some legislatures, but we decided on Thursday morning when it was clear that the United States was shut down before flight to produce a bill on Friday. In 24 hours, this bill was completed. It was suggested at the council Friday night after going through the government, members of Congress, signing with the president, and asking for a council meeting. Surely this process is, and therefore I have made an article and will do in my speech afterwards, not normal, i.e. that bills are made in such a short time. However, we felt that it was important that this week we realized that we were going to do something about it. Then, in any government or elsewhere, the situation will change because all of us have a different view of matters. Since then, we have been discussing it, and since then much has happened at that time. The last few days, just since Friday, have been happening a lot. Reports have even. from Europe, which is closing one country after another, so it is clear that we will have to expand it more than we have been proclaiming. The secretary of finance encountered it here in unsupervised inquiries earlier. It's quite clear that we're starting preparation for it, and I think it's really good to be able to take that discussion afterwards. I also said in my informal presentation to a welfare committee yesterday that when we handle matters like this, it is clear that everyone must be included in the study, see what we can change, and how we can reach as many groups. That's the job right now. That's why it's so important that both the government and the council are on the move. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and must commend him for a little complaint about the government that the situation and the council are being misinformed about what is happening. You can't blame the highest. Minister of Social Affairs not to consult with the Committee for the weekend when this was all coming up. There are a number of groups that don't have the right to improve unemployment. Then I would especially like to assign students to whom I am deeply concerned. While not on student loans and no loans, students still have to support themselves and their families, pay rent, as well as make a living in the tourism industry, as well as their families. These groups are not allowed to take student loans. That's the law now. I wondered if it's willing to change these rules. Involuntary artists have been exposed to high - scale cost. We too need to take care of that group. Most importantly, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to both the health and social systems, the retirement department, whether or not it will be guaranteed by the government that if an older citizen or another responds to the government's call to be in a judiciary and return to health or social services, he will not be exposed to the demands of the government's pay for answering the call of the government. The highest. A minister promised that he will be sure that if anyone responds to such a government distress call, it will be no worse?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u25	A respectable president. Regarding interaction between students and then the unemployment reform system, the bill we're discussing right now turns around to try to encourage the job life to go further into partial reform systems instead of giving up people. For the students and the interaction of all that attracts students and this unprecedented position, so you use that word as most have done, we have had quite a talk with the Ministry of Education on how we manage this group and that part of this case. That job just isn't done, so to be honest. We had planned to give ourselves a little more time, but when each country closes up, you have to run fast, and we can't finish it while you're doing this. It's completely honest to say that. However, that is the next assignment. Regarding the scoring squad that is being initiated, there is the rights of people who make room for it one of the things we are considering right now. [[The president calls.]] It is clear that we will need workers in many parts of the community to care for these delicate groups and are already seeing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u26	Mr. President. I agree with the advice of other senators here today when I wish the highest. Councillers and government success in their work in dealing with this vast economic and health problem we face. Because it's the highest. In this regard, the Ministry of Social Affairs spoke correctly about the need to run fast, the fact that many are extending to the actions of the government. We have seen governments around us when we have acted decisively and presented decisive measures to support the economy, but we are still waiting for an answer from the government. I only did so in the words of the highest. Secretary of finance this morning in an interview when he said that he assumes that the product of the State Fund would be negative by a hundred billion dollars. This year. I strongly assume, though I have full understanding and respect for it, that it is difficult to estimate these circumstances, that this is based on some field analysis in the Ministry of State, and that the first question in this year must be, because all of us are waiting for answers from the government on what action to take, and what size of them will be: Is this estimated $100 billion U.S. government budget or not? I think there's a little bit of urgency as we wait for the government to tell us exactly what to do about it. The highest. So, then, the minister will clearly inform us about what will be the scope of the government's actions in this economic situation that we face?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u27	A respectable president. This is where people say "what." A senator who is extending after action, but at the same time, we see that each day the picture is changing. We could have proclaimed ideas about operations last week that just weren't relevant today. What has happened in the past few days and will have a major impact on tourism are things that will have a very worsening impact on the survival of the Kingdom Fund. I made the statement on an interview today that it was clear that the balance of the state funds would be over 100 billion. We look at just some scene in which we see a recession in the year that could lie on either side of 6%. It's very uncertain. Maybe the contractions get bigger, 8%, and with certain thumb rules, you can see that then we're obviously going over 100 billion. We're not talking about numbers reflecting anything but the recession of the economy. What, then, will be the final cost of a government fund's activities, in order to make up the way of part - time work or other supportive measures, it is not time to say anything about it. We can try to approach the scope of such actions by giving ourselves certain grounds, but I think that we will have to accept that in 2020 we cannot get into action with any assurance of where we will end up in the stocks of the Kingdom. That is why I think it is a fairly meaningless debate to hang to see if the billions will be 100 or something more. I think we just need to focus on the fact that this operation is going to pay for it. I hope this answers the inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u28	Mr. President. The short answer to a question is the highest. The minister is: No, this does not answer the inquiry, for of course, I am looking much more for the extent to which it will be. Is it possible to give us some insight into the scope of government action? My concern today is not the largest of all, whether the state funds will be 100 billion or 200 billion. However, I was concerned that when I heard this figure, 100 billion, because it's very easy to figure it out quickly, it doesn't involve any action on the part of a government fund in this economic crisis. I really hope that the government's ambition is greater in this. You're absolutely right by the Topv. A minister that had been introduced last week would no doubt have had to take even more action now. The same will likely apply for the next and next week. I wonder if the government will wait to see the bottom of this situation. It is probably best to wait until the fall. That means they're going to have to be considerably greater. Therefore, as other governments have been doing, I believe we see in the front of the first action of the government. No doubt they will not be the last.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u29	A respectable president. I call attention to the fact that we have already seen reactions from the Federal Bank. We have already delayed the pay days of public pay. We have already arrived at the council's program a bill that will help companies lose their pay costs and many jobs will be saved. The first actions of the government are under way for a discussion at the council. The next large operation will include: It consists of cooperation with the financial market and, yes, further action towards payoffs and direct access to save jobs in the country. They refer to other governments as taking place. I'll let me point, for example. In Norway, people come and say: If a company has lost 50% of its fortune, it will be borrowed at a remuneration rate, i.e. A loan of state responsibility through the financial system. At the same time, it is a declaration that an enterprise that has lost 49% of its resources will not receive such support. All the application of that idea would still be after the press conference had taken place. Not all are obtained by holding press conferences and having wide lines. [[The president calls.]] I think we've just come a long way to prepare procedures that will be introduced and are going to matter and be on time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u30	President. Today, the predictable economic depression and perhaps nothing so different from the last in many respects. Last, the homes of the country fell, and many of the government's actions focused on the homes, understandable. Then people received correction, and the state funds made stability money against the commitments they made, which is not possible now as you read from a situation. Despite recent failures, however, many fell into gaps during the procedure and, of course, would like to try to avoid it now. The rented population fell, e.g. in such a gap in its collapses and students. I remind of students abroad in the situation and the ending that are currently going on. Students were not corrected for their student loans, despite the same inflation rates as borrowed from mortgage owners. I would like to use this request to discuss the missing groups, especially at the top of the topic field. Minister, students. I was a student in the last fall abroad, and it cost nothing, not at all. Suddenly, I had a higher salary with the small scholarship I had at school and had to pay much higher taxes than was expected. The savings you were trying to keep in for when you came back dried up and I haven't wanted to count it together what the cost was. I know a lot of people who got out of school after the crash. If we think only of the students now, who will be our future if we are going to build up to recover from the economic depression, I would be happy to give them an ear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and for particular attention to the educational system. I want to tell you what. A senator says that we have already started a group of meetings across all schools, preschools, elementary schools, university, and reeducations. They also represent students. I want to tell you what, too. A member of the Parliament that the loan fund of Icelandic students has already given certain initiatives in the course of study, doing so last week so that we have already begun. I am fully aware that these are unusual times, unprecedented circumstances. They've closed colleges, students are in telecommunications. The same is true of high school and school careers in high schools and elementary schools. But how important it is that we consider just what we could possibly have done better in the last fall of the nation, the financial collapse. I can say what. A member of the Parliament that we are in daily contact with the Management Board of Icelandic students and directors just to consider this and try as we can to form one body to cope with this situation. We should not forget, too, that we are in a very difficult situation today, but these are temporary situations. We need to be on guard against those who are in a weak or difficult situation, that we can control that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u32	President. I'm glad to hear that students are on the table at least this time, because, as was said in the speech of both men. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen earlier, frightened the steps a little, always. But it is good that our experience in dealing with the last crash is not older than it really is. We are, in effect, horrified by experience in dealing with economic problems. But today's economic depression is different from the last low. Her premise, then, is in a different way than she will be now. It's not necessarily predictable, though it wasn't necessarily the last time, but in a sense, we completed our financial debt, that we have it now. I see such a deficiency in the innovation lately, but I sincerely hope that we will use this opportunity to put into high gears in the education system, in the innovation industry, to achieve good structure and the fourth foundation promised here some years ago. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u33	A respectable president. The question is correct. A senator that it is very important that we embrace this group and students who are experiencing absolutely unprecedented times. Despite the fact that we are experiencing unprecedented times, we need to be careful about what to do. Already, this large audience has been meeting twice if not three times to get the hang of how we do this. I met with all the college champions and the presidents of the country this morning to consider those at risk of elimination. I want a list of all of them so we can get our arms around the group when the schools open again. This should not result in more social trauma. We have every opportunity to get our hands on the problem. Happily, we are in a good position when we enter this process, and we will make full use of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u34	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in unemployment insurance law and a remuneration law relating to reduced pay rates. Before reviewing the unique features of this bill, I think that this is correct, even in view of the discussion that was here on the issue, etc., reviewing the time frame we've been working on in this case. It was quite clear that we would need action to cope with the current trials, temporary I want to believe, in Icelandic economy and Icelandic employment due to Covid-19. We had assumed that and had had a conversation about it, including to the labour market members, that these resources would be drawn up. Many other factors are being drawn to meet this group of people and businesses going through these trials. We had planned to do it about two weeks, which is not a very long time for legislation. Thursday morning, when it was clear that the United States had shut down all the flights from Europe, and hence the tourism would be even more upset than plans expected, we then decided that we should finish this bill and try to bring it into the council as soon as possible that companies who are planning to reorganize, and are so that just this hour, could react. Just over 24 hours later, about 30 hours later, this bill was released from the government, from members of the government, and then distributed at the General Assembly on Friday night. Just as financial ministers and others have established themselves, things are changing very fast. The last days have continued to improve, including with the end of individual countries flying, and this morning we learned that perhaps we should see even greater closures for Europe. That is why I immediately wished to introduce this matter to the welfare committee that was done last morning, and I thanked the welfare committee for having given me a chance to do so. There I also said that we would have to have a good partnership, a legal entity, a possible further application on this case, or a change because we were putting together a bill in a 24 hour period, all of which are expected to be in a court of agreement for two weeks. It's clear that we're gonna have to make some changes in this bill and go beyond the introduction. We can discuss this in the following discussion. As I said, this bill is presented in the light of unprecedented employment conditions. With the bill, there's also some. Seek to meet the temporary business problem and, at the same time, to resist group information and increase unemployment as a result of contracting tourism and other employment sectors in this country. The objective of the bill is to help employers maintain recruitment contact with their employees as much as possible, although it may be necessary to reduce their employment ratio to some extent. The bill is also intended to be met by the circumstances of the remuneration workers who have to take a failure in the form of a reduced labour rate because of the temporary problem of the company they work for. It is clear that society is all for the benefit that, in spite of temporary recession in a labour market, as many people keep active recruitment relationship with their employer. This bill assumes that a person applying for unemployment benefits along with a reduced employment rate may be entitled to pay unemployment benefits for the reduced employment rate without any pay for the amount of pay he holds for the recovery of unemployment benefits, although certain conditions are met. At the same time, it is assumed that an independent working person will be allowed to apply for unemployment improvements if he has reported significant failures and changes in the equivalent of the due payment of the pay sheet for the governor's tax. This will be expected to change the law on remuneration, so in the case where the employee's employment rate has been reduced due to the improvement in the employer's activities relative to the salary of the employee, just as they were before the employment rate was reduced by the calculation of bills from the fund. This bill was expected to be on March 15 and valid for July 1st, 2020. That's even. designed to bridge this period we believe will be a recession period. Then I'll only go to the rules of the bill. In the bill it is expected that the work ratio may be reduced by 20% at least and that the payant can maintain a minimum of 50% work ratio. The bill assumes that the individual is in 513/4.80% but is able to perform partial improvements at annuity level. At the same time, pay from the employer and pay unemployment gains combined can never exceed 80% of the average total wage for the employee, and despite that, it is a requirement that this amount combined, i.e. The decrease in employment rate and unemployment rates can never exceed 650,000. per month. In the light of circumstances and the changes that have been made, I think these regulations will have to be cleared. We are now calculating the cost and whether it can reach more companies. I expect that at that job we will need to cooperate with a health - care committee, and I reiterate my joy of introducing the matter to her. When we're in situations that are unprecedented and when we're running faster than the system expects us to do, it's extremely important that our cooperation be good. I expect a good discussion today, and when it is over, I suggest that this bill be referred to. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u35	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of advance and for bringing this matter into the council. It gives me special pleasure to hear that it is open to the very space of conditions found in the bill and open to cooperation with the body of Congress on how this bill is the best place to support the families and people in the country. That's exactly what it's all about. A minister said that there may be a reason to make room that I would like to start by making my publicity here in the previous year. First, the 80% threshold is the highest. The minister talked about it, and I know he talked about in an unscheduled question period before it happened. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. I wondered why there is no need for a belt and a yoke of the State on the side of those who have neither. In this case, we're talking about the lowest paid people who can, of course, assume only 80% of their income. There is also another restriction that I would like to discuss with the highest. Minister, the employee needs to maintain a minimum of 50% employment rate. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to think with me about all the people in the restaurant business, all the people in the entertainment world that most of them have so much to work that they may be working 50% at one job and 40% in another job, and thus they may have enough time between their hands. That's how it works for our young people, for a lot of foreign citizens who work, as I say, in the restaurant business and also in the city's waves. These are people who may work 20% at one job, 30% at the other, and then 50% at the last. Finally, we're thinking about, for example. Single mothers who really need their additional work, perhaps 40%. [[The president calls.]] What are these groups of people being considered? They do not fall within the conditions, but they also need our help.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these speculations and inquiries. I'd like to say about 80% presented in the bill, by permission of the President: However, a total of 80% of the total wage earner's total income can never be higher than that of 80% of the average employer's total pay. Asks us why the law is like this. It even went away. In that room because they looked to the legal code set in its era in the collapse, in the time of Jóhanna the Sigurðardóttir, under unprecedented circumstances. At that time, the figure was estimated to be 70%, so the point is not to be carried out with such strict ideas. It is clear, however, that this is one of the requirements that men made during the last hours when this matter was due to come into existence. I pointed out that it took 30 hours after the decision was made to complete the case until it was settled by the government and members of Congress. Then people wondered about this law. I've said that this is one of the things we need to look at how we end up. The reason this goes in there is because people were talking about 70% after the economic breakdown. There are some changes I encourage the committee to look into. We are also looking into the matter and calculating adjustments. In this case, when more than one person is active in more than one partner, it is simply working in a way that the individual has the same rights with this bill, even though the employers are two. It simply works at the labour oce, which is the executive of this law. There may be a little more work around it, but the rights are the same, even though there are two employers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u37	A respectable president. It's a pleasure if it turns out that two 50% can work and cut both of them by 20%, thus holding a 60%-percent employment rate, to try to figure it out for yourself. First, I want to wait to the highest level. Ministers to be very diligent in imparting information when this matter is passed through the council, however it ends, and not only holding to Icelandic but also reporting at least English and Polish on how the rights of pay people are handled. I'm asking very carefully because it's extremely important. Many people who run restaurants and clubs are not Icelandic. They need information in a language they understand about which rights they can provide to those who work for them. This can be added together. I think it might be clear in at least The Committee's Committee members, but I think there's something missing about the bill text, that it's clear from his reading that this applies to part - time workers. I'm thinking, for example. about the nursery teacher, who's so involved in half-work that makes it a good idea to pay rent. V.E.G. A minister correctly mentioned that this bill had a role model. I want in this context my highest. For a minister, things have changed in the ten years since that bill was submitted, and then there were circumstances upstairs. In the meantime, rent prices have increased dramatically, and it is much more common for individuals to be involved in many part - time jobs rather than always in one main job. Therefore, I also wondered about the last condition that was not to be found in the previous legislation, and about the 20% share, that the employer's entire work ratio must be reduced by at least 20% for this protection or assistance to be valid. [[The president calls.]] Why is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u38	A respectable president. I don't think it's unusual when you're building a bill in 30 hours that you're looking at a previous set of laws and trying to work it out. I think it would be very unnatural not to do that. At the end of this story, I've understood that it was not originally incarcerated, but then it came into the progress of the case at a time when it was set up after the collapse of the economy. In the case of the senator's suggestion that the situation is different now, but it remained behind the economic breakdown, it is in many ways true. We're in another place now, we're over ten years later, and maybe the biggest change -- now I'm going to answer the previous question of the senator -- now the following economic collapse of the great number of foreign citizens in the labour market, especially those who work in the tourism service, and the high percentage of those who are already on unemployment record. The challenge of offering a number of resources for these people, many of whom have been brought here and settled with their families is considerable. That is why the senator has very good tips on English and Polish. I know that the past few months and even the last few months have been very important to the Labour Department. making organizational adjustments to make a better impression on a large number of unemployed foreign citizens. In total, 3,900 foreign citizens had no job at the end of February, just two weeks ago. That number corresponds to about 11.1% of unemployment among foreign citizens. There is a large increase from February 2019 when the number was only 2,100, i.e. 6.3%. [[The president calls.]] I thank you for this tip of the senator, and we've brought it on the move and followed by the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u39	A respectable president. We're dealing with the bill on the change in unemployment insurance law and pay-achieving laws, a decrease in employment rate. I'm worried about people who have part - time jobs, who are already 50 to 660 percent of their jobs, such as ants, and others. How should we react if their ratio of employment is to be decreased by half? It's like the highest. The secretary of finance came in earlier and was comparing us with the North countries, speaking of 50% of successful enterprises, but what should be done if the share is 49%. I say, what are we going to do with those who may have been in 60% and go down to 45%? Can they get out? Then there's another thing I'd like to ask a minister, and I'd like to get an answer: Is this decrease in the proportion of work by 20% and 80% of the pay, too, about government employees? Do they get only 80% of their pay? Another clear point is that this decline, to earn 80% of the pay, is, of course, a huge cover for those on the lowest salary. I say by the way, we're way below the poverty line. That's what we're talking about. Why are people not affected until we reach the median pay, aim at something like that, so that society is not severely damaged?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u40	A respectable president. I thank a senator for these inquiries, there were a few. If the individual is in part-time e.g. in 60% of the job, that's how, as this bill is presented, the law is so if the percentage decreases by 20%, that's 20% of this 60%. It's worked out, it's the frame that's worked on. In terms of public employees, this applies to the workforce as a whole. If the person is placed in part-time employment, this is in general. However, the public sector is usually behind because when the public market contracts, the income will fall together. This is often the official requirement for performing surgery. We haven't had the authority that there's much layoffs in the public sector, at least not yet. This is mainly the general labour market and tourism and the companies who, in one way or another, serve as tourism services and, of course, reaches into society. In terms of 80%, this proportion was inserted and included. did so because there was a prerequisite; this was the way it was in the earlier embryos. This is also one of the things I've been talking about that we need to do more research and are now calculating how we would see it for ourselves and what the cost would be, how much money would be needed into the system to deal with it, etc. Just as we wanted this operation to come in on Friday so that everyone knew it was coming, we also want it to be as far as possible so that as most people can use it, and we are avoiding lay-offs because it wasn't good for the working man either. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u41	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, and I deeply agree with him, for this is a good first step. But I ask you, is there a plan B, C, D? We need to realize that there are some things that are going to come up that must be corrected, something that might even conflict with equality laws. Another thing about this is we're taking the average pay of the past few months. Those with a lot of overtime, late hours, and other jobs get in there, but people who have no chance of holding it just for themselves. Some may have a lot of overtime for one month, a smaller month. I think it's taking 80% of this, taking it down, it's a little unfair because it can't freeze together. I think we just agree that it's best not to start cutting until it's time to take the median pay. Then, too, we have the position that can change immediately, both in fish farming and elsewhere, and we need to take into account who are inside that bill. As you can see, fishing isn't in it. Should we change that, or should we do so on a welfare committee, accept these changes, and bring them in? Of course, you may want to take a good look at it and get used to it. But I'm afraid there's a lot that's going to come across this and I think a minister agrees with me in that. Is there a problem, though, about how to deal with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u42	A respectable president. Regarding the fact that there are backups, it is simply this way, as I have said, that this is the first step we are taking because the companies called in because of the unprecedented circumstances created in the tourism process far faster than expected. When looking at the time the companies need and when their income disappears completely, we wanted to reduce the risk that companies would have to break off recruitment relationships and quit employees, but they would have to be on notice to have it for the next month's convention. We've been preparing more work on unemployment in particular, including is being working with resources that were going on after the economic collapse, but they are being won only differently. because, as shown in earlier discussions, there are a large number of foreign citizens now on unemployment records. The collapse was not the same. It's quite clear that we're just taking the first step, but I'd like to mean that this step here, if we're able to get around so that the business in this country maintains employment relations with our employees and unemployment insurance systems and that our funds all grab into, is not a small step. This is a very big step if it succeeds, and it is the project ahead. We don't want the companies to go into the next month's round with the rest of their employees because we believe this is going to be a temporary downturn in the tourism industry and is connected to the much of the world's modern travel restrictions. We're going to cover it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u43	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this bill to legalise the unemployment insurance law and the guarantee of a responsored budget, which is about a decrease in employment rate. It is true that the bill, of course, would have looked differently if we had enough time, weeks, and months to win it, but that's not available. That, of course, is why we are in a state of shock. A welfare committee would cut it off as we are told by a client and let us know. And it's also true that it will show up in this hole to the point. The welfare committee has been studying this material for the weekend, and then we received a minister yesterday to present both the bills discussed here today, although they had not been referred to by the Committee. The committee started visiting immediately today, and we had a representative from the Allied Iceland Association, the Organization for Professionals, and an artist's representative, i.e. The chairman of the Icelandic Sports Association, the director of Icelandic actors, the executive director of the Icelandic Export Office of Music and the chairman of the Union of Icelandic artists. That's what I'm saying to make sure it's in the book to see what it's about. The welfare committee has already held two meetings on this subject and we will meet up late in the evening and all morning so that it will be done as well as possible during this brief period of time. All members of the committee. The welfare committee agree that this will be done as well as possible. I want to thank all members of the committee for their good work and their goodwill because we are in this together. I'd like to, too, now that I've started my compliments, thank the Minister for the information. Of course, this was not a meeting with the committee at an early stage, it was just an information program on how the bill looked. But I know it's a very paid conversation between the Ministry and the Committee. We have already been contacted, although this issue is not a traditional narrative process and is not even attended by the committee, in many places it is suggested. Of course, travel is a major concern for those who are involved in many part - time jobs here and there. There is a level of employment ratio and there is a set of factors, employment ratio must be at least 50%, but there are a number of people who take part in being guides for more than one person, who are involved in payoffs for one party, are in several locations, and even are in third party service jobs. It's certainly very complicated, and we have to somehow assume that we can face as many people as possible with a certain flexibility. Yet, now we also know that as we are able to do this simpler, it will be easier for the Labour Department to process the applications that will come in. As we withdraw this from the council at a more complicated level, there is a higher risk that there will be groups that fall apart and there will be a lot of delays in the system. Clearly, the law referred to at 6 mg. a-arms 1. .............. It has been observed that the place in the fishing road is different today, Tuesday, but it was only last week when the bill was built. That is the situation in many parts of the world. That is a great change every day. Sadly, though, the law is such that once we have made it, it will not change until we are here to make such a decision. They have become trapped and not mobile without Generalis's decision. Last week it was believed that fish farmers, that group, needed no support, but the law on the payment of a non-employment insurance system assumes that management will fall completely, at least complete processing lines and people sent home, not reducing the share. This should be considered because the situation has changed in a few days, the landscape in fish industry, and the fishing outlets due to transport and markets. We realize exactly what the situation is in the tourism service, that it will be a lot of trouble. You know, there's a huge punch in the hotel business, and you hear that whole hotel chains are having their first experience that they don't get one book in 24 hours. That's awesome, of course. But let all of us remember that this is a temporary situation. Of course, it is exhausting to be constantly told that something is unprecedented and that something is temporary, but let us do everything in our power to try to shrink the blow as far as possible. Hence, when it comes from the government, it is positive that everything will be done in order to include more than less because it will eventually pay off. Then we must also call for a government minister's promise to put more into the system, more support, and more authority into all of this, the tourism and other branches, to be at table, not just in word. I realize that there are no absolutely advanced ideas in the first day but there is a need to come up with a slightly clearer understanding from the government on what they intend to do. But this is at least the beginning. For what we talked about in unsubstantiated inquiry earlier today, I think that it will also be inevitable to watch indications received from the National Business Association as well as the Allied Union of Iceland. The requirement that pay from employer and pay unemployment benefits combined can never cost more than 80% of the total wage earner's average amount will be won more by the most earned, unfortunately. The group, the busiest individuals at the minimum, 317,000 dollars. per month for taxes, it is not possible to offer a maximum wage of 254,000. It's too little money, this group can't take such a blow. We need to make sure that he does not have more of a crisis than he now has. This group find it difficult to have a knife and spoon every week, every month, providing for their families, etc. We have just seen one of the most effective shows in which the circumstances of people in full - time work are being prepared to support themselves and their families. We must protect this group. That those with 400,000 bucks. for taxes go down to 220,000 - it's clear we can't do this. It is said that a combined pay for the reduced employment rate and unemployment benefits could not exceed a sum of 650,000. per month. It must be revised too. It is worth looking for, then, that part of this remuneration comes back to the state fund in the form of tax pay. It will eventually pay to try to get more people into a reduced employment rate rather than the employee's saying, "I can't afford to go to this reduced ratio. I'm going to get dumped or dumped, and I'm gonna work out because I just can't do it like this. We can't go down to 650,000. ... money. Of course, for some, that is a lot of money. But because this happens suddenly, there is also a need to look at the family business and give people the flexibility to set sails. One group we have to look at, and we have to go to. The welfare committee will discuss with you tomorrow are students. Students who study more than 30%, exceed ten units, are not entitled to unemployment. Clearly, the pursuit of student loans has greatly reduced. More and more people prefer to work part - time with study. Those who now lose their jobs but who support themselves and their family as part - time students are not entitled to any unemployment. They need to find solutions for that group, and we will be on the committee's committee to do all we can to find out how we should do this. A new bill that temporarily expands employment insurance clearance for students may need to be developed. I just don't understand how we're gonna do this, but of course we'll get the Ministry back for the committee to watch this group. You can see in many parts of the community with students who have to pay their rent and support their families despite not having a student's loan, that student loans cannot be applied now at the end of the second. Somehow they need to meet this group, for we do not want people to rush out of school because of the position. I don't think that's what we want people to go into unemployment-only. There's been a lot of discussions about independent employment drivers. For the artists, we got them for this morning's committee. It also has a significant cost, especially for mobile artists who have rented gadgets, had to travel for decades, and had to return home much sooner. There are lots of events, concerts, even rituals in the Dark Week. These are the harvest months of artists, which are now being held, March and April, with a variety of events around the Memorial and the Passover, and at the time of annual festivals and major meetings. These days may be out of the question for the artists and for the artists around them, except for the months of December. We're talking about all techs and things like that. Clearly, we need to examine how we deal with these people because there are more often than not individuals who make their dues once a year and not each month. These are the tasks that await the Committee over the next two days. But we're gonna roll up our sleeves and keep going and we're gonna do everything we need. The welfare committee will allow this to work out properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u44	Mr. President. We are here on the bill - long - stress bill may not yet be here, but much has been asked for a bill to correct the changing of unemployment insurance law and the guarantee of a reward law, in view of the situation we are facing. Sadly, a large number of people are at a high level, awaiting the end of this matter. It is also very important that we do well here. It has been shown to be in the case of the highest degree. Social Affairs minister, for the reason that there seems to be a lack of effort on the subject, is inexplicable. This matter had to be addressed quickly. I can agree with that with the highest. Ministers that it is most likely this way and that it is better to give the committee the opportunity to continue working things as best we can. I'm gonna take this opportunity and thank you very much. Minister for the way he has approached these matters and information to the Committee. Since we have been critical of lack of information and consultation in other matters, we do well to be careful. Like what? In spite of this, the committee has already begun its work. The bill, in its simplest form, means that people may be able to cut to 50%. So an employer pays 50%, but people only earn 20% of the money because the employment insurance budget bridges the gap between them, up to 650,000. per month. It is obvious, in view of the bill as it is now known, that a large proportion of those who become cut off from cutbacks will not gain compensation and payables, such as. decreased from 100% to 80% does not fall below. This has been suggested by the members we've already met and others who are sending indications that 20% of the impairment is too broken, i.e. 80% work, and then 650,000. The maximum is too low, especially when considering the average total wage in society. That's about 750,000 bucks. These are things I might come to later. Before that happens, I'd like to make a special decision that there is a group of people, our students, those in part - time work, those who provide families just for their own academic progress and that they don't have the right to make things out of the employment insurance fund because they are studying, which is extremely important for us to put up with and take care of. Their present status is impaired, and this bill is not designed to improve their status. It is the number of people we trust in in in the future, not just the incomeiest people today. These are our young people who are acquiring education. We should have it in the foreground. I'm calling for the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs has that in mind. I'm just going to add that according to my information, students have not been contacted on this matter. I trust we'll put it back on a welfare committee. It's important to bring them along. There is something else that we need to keep in mind too. On the basis of the remainder of the bill, it is expected to be repeated on March 15 but we know that at least Two weeks earlier, it really began to show that people were falling into a poor ratio. We've been watching the situation for that long. More important, in the long run, we had to consider if we can reach out further to meet these people. The 20% decrease, and so the amount itself, is huge, on the one hand for government funds because there will be many things to consider, and especially for the people involved in this case. I think it's important to remember that this bill is meant to keep your arms around people and businesses who in this way have a chance to keep their recruitment relationship with employees and thus have a chance to get back on track. It's not a bill to protect a government fund, even though I had a lot of money having to look after things there. The figures have been discussed about the possibility of failure for people at the lowest wage to endure if they are reduced by 20%, and I know we're going to take care of them. Then there's another group of people, the middle dealers. This figure assumes 650,000. A roof, as we are talking about the income of a government fund, can be said to include tax returns. It is not difficult to figure out that it is literally a very reasonable way to treat government funds not to have this roof because tax returns. Then I would like to examine the position of the particular group that is often the people with wide banks that would have if we looked back ten years in advance over a period of very heavy load. These are the people who manage our private consumption, who buy our service, the income distribution to the groups that we are also talking about worrying about, the contractors, and the artists. This is the group we're looking at, hopefully, not going to put the brakes on all our consumptions, for that will be a bigger problem for us and will quickly be loaded. I specifically mention here that the government has offered some suggestions to stimulate private consumption in society. This would be a very good thing in that direction. I know it's been reported that the bill went into a government meeting on Tuesday. They put these belts and bracelets on, so it was the original concept. It also supports the wisdom to take this thing away from here on a temporary basis. It's a bridge, shorter time. We are not talking about a permanent arrangement, so to those who fear that there will be some sort of temptation and that the government fund will pay large money which is not necessary at the end of the day, I would like to say that I don't think there's any reason to fear it unless we enter the much longer recession period. We are still working on the fact that we will not. As I'm saying, I think the very reason why we're removing these impairments is that we're promoting short-term shortening. These are the big things. There's been quite a talk about independent activity here. They're talking about people in part-and-part jobs in tourism, and people who don't have defined jobs, and they fall out of this. Somehow we need to put the law around that group of people, capture a larger part of it by going down to a 25% work ratio. It could also make a difference for large groups. Once we have recited all these items we need to be careful to mention the group that lives on special occasions, does not have a defined work ratio, and has no authenticity in earnings, except perhaps over a longer period. Then we will have to answer that question and look to such long periods of time as we go out, but once we take all of this together, all the factors that we really need to consider, if we're going to make this work, the fact is that simplicity is quite important. We also need to think of those who will work in accordance with the laws here on the subject and how fast we can get it through. We do not want to overindulge the employment department or other institutions to care for this. There's a lot going on, and I think a welfare committee may not necessarily see the sun in the next few days, but will shut down and work this thing hard and fast. It may be that something has to be broken up, but it will be very good for all the committees to have the opportunity to do this in close consultation and with the time that we receive. I know that the President of the Generals has granted a court order to put the welfare committee first during the regular meeting period so that we can keep a tight grip on this. Visitors are being proclaimed, so at the end, I wish we on the welfare committee of all success with this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u45	A respectable president. First, I'd like to celebrate that we're discussing this matter and that it's on schedule. I think this is one of the basic issues we need to run out of right now. In the first part of this storm that's going to overtake us now that we're going to get through this country, I think we need a very clear message, first that we're going to help people, homes, and businesses, the public, to get through these temporary difficulties. At the same time, we must realize that even if we are able to solve a lot of things, we will not be able to resolve everything in this matter. This is a big, powerful case that can make a difference in how many people keep their jobs, their homes'livelihood, and their income flow, which is the basis for the well - being we have here, and how many companies will be ready to stand up for the storm, take the opportunity when the storm passes, and help us in the structure we need to build up. Therefore, I welcome the good cooperation we have had in this matter, first between the labour market partners and the government. In the first place, the government worked with the labour market partners, as the budget has already foretold. The welfare committee. Then there's still a good partnership with the Committee, and I thank you both for the highest. Ministers and commissions for the success of cooperation and conversation, and all of them in the boats together to make it work. It matters, and it also matters that although the case has not been prepared and has not completely solved all the problems in the first place, it has happened so quickly that we would have more time to put it into practice with the existing position. So, of course, the situation has changed rapidly since the point of the case, so I agree with most of the points that have been presented in today's discussion about things that we need to consider. I remind you again, there's something we can't solve right now, but we have to work at a late stage at the job in front of us. As we are here dealing with employment insurance and the remuneration fund, we can be sure that these funds will be tested in a large way. They'll be under a lot of stress. It's just a question of how we manage to minimize that effect. If we succeed in minimising this impact, it is good for the homes of the country as well as the businesses, they are fully involved. We need to consider some factors that need to be addressed in order to make the matter clear and send a clear message that enables us to put oxygen into our job life right away, such as the peak of the salary and their interaction with the country's average wage as well as the 80% share. When we discuss these two points, that's only 80% of the pay and each of the roof, we need to realize that the procedure depends on the employee's having the right to choose whether he will accept a reduced employment rate and a part of the employment insurance budget or otherwise he will be informed by a long notice. As a result, it is important that as many employees see the best way to go as their companies do. Therefore, we need to consider this in view of the fact that this action will accomplish its purpose. With regard to work ratios, there may be 50,480 percent normal, but there are two things we need to consider in it. Will 50% succeed in any case according to the sector and the situation, or does this need to be lower, as has been shown to the Committee? Some feel that it needs to be. That's the second thing. The other factor is if it can be 50-80% of the 50% employment rate for those already in a 50% labour rate. They're asking if it can reach them or not. This is two sides of the same coin of this scene. This is true of other groups such as fish farmers. We've also discussed students, stage artists, and others. We have to realize there are a lot of these. I think that what we're dealing with in the fish industry is totally related to this, so we need to take a good look at it and add it, but as with students and farmers - there are many groups in the community - we may not quite be able to make such arrangements for this, even if we have to consider the next matters to follow. It's a pleasure to be a private worker inside. They need to be well - aware that they see a reduced price in the person they claim, and then they can get better out of it. It was noted to the committee that all the management of this project has become digital or electronic and has become more facilitated, so this has become less difficult. It's also important that we do not become some misunderstanding. This need to be clear, and you can go straight to work. The success of our efforts in this matter will be of great importance to what we hear about reports in the days, days, and years. Also, we need to realize that the situation differs depending on whether we are talking about a large company with a number of employees or SMEs. There is also a difference between whether we have a seasonal enterprise with high seasonal variability or whether this depends on something else. Not all workers have been working for three months, it may have just begun working for small and medium-sized tourism companies, and it's just starting to work right before the start of the season. They don't have three months' experience. There's a lot of these things. I understand that there is a common understanding among all that the matter is important, that it needs to be successful, and that we have already received much information, comments, and suggestions together that we will review, and be careful to work as best as well. Still, we know that we do not have much time. I thank you for the good work that has already been done, and I expect it to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u46	A respectable president. We'll talk here about things that I think are very important and enjoyable to have been seen even though I feel that we could go further, as if I came into my counter-reguage at the highest level. Minister before. It has been observed in this discussion that this bill had a short period of time. Changes are expected to occur during treatment. well-being committee. What a joy it is that this bill seems to be working in order to achieve the best of all the groups that need support in these difficult times! As a result, I want a few items and the status of several groups at 1st. this case because I'm worried that we won't be able to get enough of them, at least. For the current bill. As I say, though, I have every hope that my comments will be heard and heard. The welfare committee will, therefore, be good at reaching these groups. First, I feel that it is important for us to focus on the people's joyful gifts, the entertainers; the singers, the artists; all the people who have their jobs to entertain us and make us happy. Right now, however, it is not a simple time for them to face a life when there is a ban. This is one group of people I don't think will guarantee that the income connections will reach, at least According to the wording of the current bill, they may be able to expect minimal non-employment benefits, but they are not related to income. For people with even mortgages or tenures, it is rather difficult to swallow even half or more in pay. It seems at least I do not secure from the bill text now, and I hope that there will be a basis for correcting the position of the individuals who are operating independently and who are now off-grading due to the condition. The situation appears to be that they receive only basic employment benefits but that they are not related to income and that, therefore, this group does not have a chance to obtain additional contributions, as may be expected toward other groups. This needs to be clear, this needs to be decisive, and I need to emphasize the importance that when we get together on this bill, it must be clear and decisive. There must be detailed instructions on what this means for employees, employers and employment agencies, so that all are on the exact same page on which rights are unique. Any uncertainty about the content of this bill we're working here when it will ultimately be made that law is not of the good, especially to the paymen, but also to professionals who are now most likely to be very skeptical about what they are going to do. Are they to wait for government reactions? How will this be done? The information flow, at least For this package, it is not clear that a very clear command has been issued that it should wait and see how the arrangement will be conducted on the part of the council before starting a renovation. Reports of the government's approval of this or the other indicate that it has become a law. It is shocking to use language like that, a respectable president, that the government has agreed to some kind of population that it has become a law and that these are the rules to follow. Not everyone is just as informed that the government does not agree with any law but only suggestions to the Council on such matters. When this becomes a law, a respectable president, I would like to justify the importance of very specific information being received. I suggest they be translated into English, English, and, at least, English. Polish if not more languages and special emphasis is placed on bringing this information to an enterprise in the country so that it is not just theirs to get information but that they are informed by the government on how this bill will affect the business of the enterprise and the rights of the relevant employee. I mentioned it in return to the highest degree. A minister earlier that I was worried about people who were in several part-time jobs and used them to work, even if they had a 40% position in one place and a 50% position in another place, and if they wanted to reduce their levels or make a deal with an employer that at one place they would reduce by 10% and by the other 10%, they would be dropped from the equation set in the bill. I think we need to be much more flexible. What I experience when I read this bill is that we have a belt and a bracelet to pay people who have neither votes now. I think it would be more with those we should put on belts and shoulder ties than with the state funds now, especially because temporary action is involved. Actually, I don't agree that these actions are meant to be only for three months. There's a special pizza all to itself. I believe this should cover a longer period, mainly so we don't have to come back here and accept the exact same item after three months. I find it hard to see why these proportions are precisely chosen above others. The value of a salary to maintain a 50% employment rate indicates that it cannot have 30% jobs on this side and 40% of jobs on the other side, dropped a total of 20% with both employers, and thus it becomes part of these government actions. I don't understand the bill text like this, and if you want to mix some of the companies you work for, it's gonna have to be much more clear in the bill. It must be very clear, then, in committees too, that it is quite clear, as well as a business relationship with an independent organisation. I also put a question mark to the 20% rule set, that at least 20%. I don't really understand the purpose of it. Why should it not be good enough for the state if a 10% decrease in employment rate is good, especially when we're talking about two employers, even three? This 20% rule makes me feel very inhibited, and I feel that it excludes a very large group that could otherwise benefit from this route. That's also saying about 50 percent because, as I say, we have a lot of people in part - time jobs, and I just don't think it's clear that the bill does cover those who have several jobs. That's especially where I'm thinking about our young people. We're seeing a lot of recession in tourism. True, it is important to be with them, but I feel that we were not allowed to forget, but those who work in the restaurants and at clubs. These are our young people, and these too are foreign citizens who are working for us in a very important work, and they see a tremendous decrease. It's to them that I also think it's very important that we send a message. What message? That you will be met by the state, so that you do not have to resign all your employees. While it is not clear that the individual should be at least in 70% of their jobs so that they can fit in with the entertainment and restaurants of the country, the message is that they have to resign from all business workers and that nothing will be done to meet them. That's why I also feel that it is so important now that there's a message that I'm working on. This isn't exactly right, and I don't think it's been clear enough. This law has not been done, these conditions are not permanent and there is a reason to wait at least magazines on Thursday to see what comes out of the Congress process of this case but don't rush out of the way now and quit all the business employees because it may well be that this also applies to relevant personnel, at least to the relevant end of the story. if there is. The welfare committee performs the work that I think she will do, reaching well with the groups that are sensitive, may be in several part jobs, or have one 100% job, and then even 30% of jobs that are very important to make ends meet, especially for example. for single parents. In this context, I felt that it was important to set groups. We've talked about students and, of course, it's very important to care for them, making sure that they can't get a chance to get tired finals, they don't get into a Burkratic capital hell in LIN. This may not be entirely supported by this minister, but I know that the loss of a student for a whole semester because of the situation - when I was studying abroad, I might be able to get a doctor's certificate or some kind of help from LIN or forgiveness of 20 units, but not more than that. I just want to say that the majority of students who are studying abroad have to rely on their bank's overwage, and after that they get their student loans. If the loans are just 20 units, but the overlay 30 units, a debt greater than most students will eventually be able to live up to. Maybe it's a little different than this bill. In addition, it is very positive that the government is responding in this way, putting their arms around employees, supporting jobs in the country, and ensuring that people can continue to work even if it reduces the proportion of jobs. Still, I wondered, " Why not go any further? ' In Denmark we can see e.g. that the government proclaims the will to pay up to 80%, 753/480% of the pay force. As a result, there is a much better support than is being offered here. As a result, I feel that it is important that we examine what our neighbors have been doing and see if there is no basis for going further in that direction. In terms of 80% of the proportion that the individual will never be able to get more than 80% of his total wage out of this route, I feel very discouraged of paying people and for professional drivers going that way, to have this limitation, especially when we could call it the belts, but that the shoulder bonds are so 650,000 k. Maximum. Why is it not 650,000. A climax would have to be sufficient if it had to be there, though certainly an excellent gesture would not have been provided. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's design for the possibility of a peak, too, don't you think? I'll leave it between things. I wondered that when there is such a strong frame of mind about which individuals can take advantage of it, we are left with very few who can take advantage of it. Now, first and foremost, I call for the government to speak clearly, that when this case has been cleared up, and that all this information is transmitted well and thoroughly, especially because I think that many people in the restaurant business are very nervous, have begun to be aware of how this bill is going to go, and has not received a clear message from the government that on Thursday this matter should be handled, and that it might take considerable changes in the meantime. Therefore, I believe that it is important for the government to go to information now on this aspect of the matter and then, in a very large supply of information on the final conclusions of this bill's support when it comes on Thursday. Other than that, I thank you for the bill and the discussion that has been conducted here. I believe we can work this important thing out together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u47	Mr. President. I'd like to go into some of the good things we've got here about making things better with unemployment if there's a lack of employment. We've had experience with such things since the collapse and it came out very well. I am very happy that these measures have been taken so early. It is urgent not to lose a large number of people to possible permanent unemployment but to do everything possible to meet people and businesses in the special circumstances that we are living in today's world. Hopefully, that won't last long. Therefore, it is important to bring these support measures from a joint fund, an employment insurance fund that we as a nation have built up, employees, employers and the state, and that to prevent the breaking of employment relationships between people and companies is under control. Then there's always the issue of whether we can do better. I'm sure there's something we can do better, and I think it's the best. A little societal minister gave up the ball that we can have the chance of having the short time we have to analyze this bill and hear in the individuals involved, the organizations of these people and companies involved, how we might further strengthen this case in the interests of the welfare committee. A lot has been said about it in other people's hearts. Parliamentaries as well as members of the U.S. Supreme Court have been identified. Ministers looking at the roof there, 650,000 k, whether it can be moved, and if so, it would have less potential for abduction or the employee itself to be selected that way than to be reduced in proportion and not to receive more than 80% of that reward, with additional contributions from employment insurance. I'm also very worried about the people at the lowest rate. An 80% decrease in low-payers is an enormous blow for that group and can't afford it. I think it would have to be some floor to deal with the lack of these extremes, if people take advantage of these resources, so far down the pay scale. There have been figures in the relationship that were introduced to us on the welfare committee this morning. I think it's right that we look at things at the highest. Minister if we can move it. I believe there is a great deal of agreement in the Committee to consider our options and how it would further cost in payment from employment insurance. In this regard, we also need to look for a longer time, that we are in danger of being harmed by this action now so that we do not experience a lot of unemployment that would be difficult to recover. Therefore, we need to look ahead, and even though we are going to take steps to reach July 1 - we hope that then we will have to come to an evener sea - we need to think carefully whether we can strengthen this bill even more so so that we are in good stead against raising unemployment with unforeseeable consequences to the people and to the people in general. The people in part - time work and how they can be met have been discussed. I hear the highest. A minister is willing to take a closer look and there's a question of what it would mean to go down with the ratio of employment these measures apply, as well as to a 25% employment rate. I want to be examined in this context what it would mean, if we pick up the more part-time workers. True, some groups need everything. Many miners have financed their studies through part - time work. There is a lot of evidence that students from abroad are in the capital area to pursue higher education and to rely on two and even three part - time jobs to support themselves financially. I think it is very important that we also pick up the group that may be involved. An independent body, aristocracy, artists, and others have been referred to in creative articles. I understand they're meeting those who are independent workers who can refer to many in creative articles, that they fall under the ability to do what they do in any way, whether it's an art or a monopoly, such as guides, and that they can get unemployment benefits against the jobs they have within each month. There's a lot more to look at. V.E.G. A minister admitted that there had not been much time for this matter to be won. This needs to go really fast, so we put on the welfare committee a great deal of emphasis that we are doing it better with the highest degree. Ministers and see if we can strengthen the best resources the government can provide in cooperation with the labour market partners in order to promote and strengthen both the people and the companies involved in the situation that no one has seen. I have high hopes that we will be able to resolve this and that we will be particularly guarding the number of low-payers involved, e.g. much in travel services, and much of it has been the basis for the fast structure of tourism in recent years. These people are not on high pay, nor can their income be reduced by 20%, or they lose their jobs permanently. Neither option is good, and we can work with it forward. I agree that we need to get information to the point where this case will be taken care of from the council, hopefully this week, to foreign citizens who are active here and who have given much weight to our professional lives. They need to be looked out for, for example. There is no room for mass culture to work by informing people of their rights as a result of this issue and telling them what opportunities there will be for them to enter the available resources. Thank you very much. Minister for exerting himself on this matter. We hope that we can continue to earn it even more for people and businesses in our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u48	A respectable president. We'll discuss changes in unemployment insurance law and guarantees of remuneration in terms of a decrease in employment rate. First, I want to express my satisfaction that this bill has been released shortly after the government was prepared for this. Of course, there is something else in the bill that indicates that progress has been made and on a foundation has been left out of 2008. I just want to say in the beginning that the Central Party is, of course, supporting good and positive matters like this, but at the same time, we want to point out some points that we think are wise to be examined in the Committee. It is the first to say that we would like a special inspection of 650,000. The peak that has not been discussed here earlier today. Significant criticism is shown in the ASI memo provided here as a cover, so to speak, i.e. not a review to the committee, but I assume this memo has gone between ASI and the Ministry during the progress of the case. There are large groups of important functions in many parts of the community. We can watch the majors and connect our service companies to a small scale of pay. We can view important classes, such as the flight that is taking on great and many blows from all sides of these days that were above those limits. I think that there is a greater reason for looking at this standard, especially in view of the fact that the bill has a sunset plan. This will take place between March 15, 2020, and June 30, 2020, just over 100 days. The damages will be a bit different, but not a sum of money, so to speak, for the state's funds regarding this particular aspect, though, of course, all gather together. Another thing I wanted to mention today at 1st. is, as the bill puts it, the sum combined can never be higher than 80% of the average total wage earner. This law is that it will probably be reversed specifically, and it works hard on the lowest income groups where there is little room to face such loss of income and therefore I would like to request that this point be considered in the work of the Committee. Then there's something that I like about to be taken on in the bill as it happens, the position of people who take on a decrease in their employment rate because of the condition being present and the actions presented here, but then land on permanent unemployment. They need to be examined and made sure that the rights of the individual will take into account the position that the employee was in before a reduced employment rate. It is handled in the bill in the way this work is solved, but I think it is important that the welfare committees consider the way it will be handled and it ensures that it would not be a special incentive for people not to take advantage of the solutions offered here, especially in view of the fact that there are clearly doubts, so I allow myself to quote the once-named American Association, which says, by the president's permission: It will not be recommended to the members of your partner to accept a decrease in work ratio with the loss of income that the current bill contains. I'm suggesting that the ASI representatives are looking for corrective measures to be made in those situations that have already been proposed and hoped that the UN can recommend that this solution be new to its members. As it is currently available, there are factors that need special attention and I would like to point out the point of ensuring that employees and employers at the same time will not be harmed by making use of this solution with a reduced employment rate and resulting in a loss of rights to unemployment if there is permanent unemployment, even if the company does not fail. My fourth factor is that a work ratio will be reduced by 20 to50% to allow this solution to be active. When I consider the news coming from a travel agency study, I think it would be wise to consider it on a social committee between discussions to increase the 50% share to 75%. The situation is simply in such a way that there is a chance that real world will require more work ratio reduction than the one listed here. Again, I reiterate, considering that the current decision in this bill takes a little more than 100 days to a maximum, that governments have time to adapt to that decision if, in reality, there is no need to increase this ratio from 50% to 75%. Fifth, I would like to keep in mind that a position of monologue and other activities such as employment, especially those associated with travel services, in one way or another, would be considered to be employed. Everyone realizes that the effects of this temporary collapse in the tourism service are splashing into most other sectors, unfortunately. As for home and paymen that this bill includes, and then employers in protecting the labour rights between employers and employees, I think it's right to keep in mind and I'll be delighted to see how quickly three of the biggest business banks - excuse me not to include others who have given comparable declarations or pensions if such statements have been made - it seems to me that the three major business banks have stepped in and offered their clients an advance to make their mortgages. Of course, this will be of great importance when considering the provision of households in the present context. This does not affect those who are born in a rented market, nor do those who have their property financed by sources who may decide not to participate in this operation. I encourage the loan agencies, or pension funds, that have not jumped on this bus to do the first thing. In all the action in front of us, the risk is less likely to be overcome during the operations than underweight. I got it. I got it. the welfare committee to handle this situation so that you are more likely to improve the response than reduce it, make it as simple as possible, because the level of misunderstandings is enough. It will support the ability of companies and homes to protect the energy in what is important, on the other hand, to protect the enterprises and employment relationships with those who use this resource and, on the other hand, that the households with hard work that are taking advantage of this resource have as much insight as possible in their environment through the period of this situation. This is what I wanted to say here at 1st. To make this clear, the committee looked at 650,000. The top point, for example, for the Commission to look at a review of 80% of total income criteria, to make sure that those who exploit a decrease in employment rate will not be damaged by the rights if then permanent unemployment occurs, even if enterprises are not lost, that it must be considered that the decrease rate will be 201.750% and then that it will be 20 texts and those who are self-employed at markets. I'm gonna let it be over for a while, and I'm gonna wait to see some adjustments from what I can see. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u49	A respectable president. I just come up at the end to thank you for the discussion I've found very objective. Good tips have been received from members of each body of Congress, both talks, and so we answer my first talk. I emphasize good and important cooperation with a health committee in the matter. It is extremely important that we win the situation quickly and well because we want it to be useful to companies in the coming days and weeks. Again, I repeat that the comments given during the discussion were useful and good, and I hope that the committee will be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u50	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct temporary pay due to the pay of persons who are infected under the guidance of the health authorities without showing signs of infection. The bill is based on the declaration of Iceland's Government, the Allied Union of Iceland, and the work force signed on March 5th. about the community need to slow down the spread of the virus Covid-19. The good news about this is that we had a week to win it, not just a day and a half. It was reserved in the declaration signed on March 5 that this bill should appear and was submitted on Friday, March 13. The declaration stated that the target of infection was to slow down the spread of the virus, to protect vulnerable groups from transmission, and to reduce the pressures of the health system and the infrastructure during the course of the virus. For this reason, it is important for the environment to be controlled, so it has been directed to the general public that he respects the health authorities'instructions to stay under aseptic conditions if such instructions are given to people. The decision to apply a cognition is made with regard to the overall interests of the environment and the importance that individuals can follow the instructions of the health authorities to apply without worrying about their survival. The bill is primarily aimed at meeting professional drivers who pay salary while they are infested with direct government instructions. I think it is extremely important to make this decision specifically because the agreement that was signed between employment, trade union, and the government involved making it possible for the sector to direct a recommendation to the members of the community to pay the person to be diseased under the direction of the health authorities but that the employer can then pick up the government's pay according to a certain amount. Apparently, the impact of the virus on the labour market may become such that some employers can find it impossible to pay their employees' wages because of a loss of income. Hence, the bill is also aimed at meeting the pay paid earners who are not paid by the professional while they are under field conditions as instructed by the health authorities. It's simply because it's merely a recommendation on the business community but it's a law that individuals can apply for these types of payment. But there should be exceptions. Then the bill is intended to match the individual internally active persons who suffer loss of income when they are under field conditions as directed by the government. In these specific cases, therefore, government funds can be applied, provided that specific requirements are met. The labour oce will supervise these applications. The maximum pay is expected to be the same, given the entire calendar month, and the maximum guarantee of responsible pay on the salary requirements, i.e. 633,000 K., which means a maximum of 21,000. for each day the payer is under siege. The bill includes employers and individuals in a general labour market, where state and rural society have declared that their employees will be paid in order to get their own environment. This is just the general labour market. It is assumed that the period will be the focus of February 1st. but the health authorities gave the first instructions for the infestation in the beginning of February. However, the development of this epidemic remains extremely uncertain and cannot be determined how long it will need to take specific action. The bill expects the period to end on April 30. A decision to extend it after that would then be a personal decision. A respectable president. Clearly, the situation that has come is absolutely unprecedented, and the need to act quickly and safely to secure the foundation of society. Is this bill part of it. I encourage the committee to go well into the bill that was worked out in good cooperation with the labour market partners, which is based on their declaration and the government. However, I'd like to say that since the bill was presented, we've been in a conversation with a psychiatrist about the marked regulations of the bill that indicate that the bill is expected to work in a way that the psychiatrist sends a message to the person that he or she needs to get an infection. The implementation of the bill was considered that when children were to be infected, the parents would be automatically included, but this is not so that it is one of the laws that the committee needs to consider in cooperation with the Ministry, whether the practitioner's practitioner's noncommunicable practitioner, or to add a law on something that has to be applied to children, at least In that case, one parent. In view of the nature of the case, children of high school who are hooked by health authorities may not be home alone without their parents. In view of the urgency of the bill, I stress that the bill will be approved at the Council as soon as possible. I'm willing to do my part, so I can do it, and I wish to, here and there, in this respect, to be cooperated with with. The well - being committee and suggest that after this discussion, the subject be referred to the fine committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u51	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for review of this bill, on temporary payment for the pay of persons under siege. I have two questions. V.E.G. The second factor was entered by a minister, i.e. In view of circumstances relating to meeting bans, the parents of schoolchildren need not be taken into account. We've already received advice on this. The welfare committee. V.E.G. A minister went over it with schoolchildren, and then we decided to have some age frame there, but there's another group I'd like to ask the highest order. A secretary to and care for children under special circumstances, children with disability, children with diseases and problems in the school system, who need daily care. These children now have limited services anywhere in the system, whether in the school system or elsewhere, because of the ban. Don't we have to guarantee them too?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u52	A respectable president. I think it's really important. The core of this bill focuses on the fact that when a disease - control doctor decides to scour people, they will, in effect, receive only an order to stay inside for the next 14 days. That's what it takes to activate this bill and is part of a declaration in which the job life, the labor union on behalf of the employees, and the state meets that it is. It's the core of this bill, and everything that points to support other groups can't tell me how to go into this bill because we're only limited to when a diseased surgeon orders an epidemic. On the other hand, many people suffer a loss of service because of these circumstances, and when we put on a certain ban, school and other activities change. Then there are many of the challenges that have been pointed out to make up the parents of disabled children. We've had discussions, including... We mature help, about them. A social ban does not justify that in other areas, we as a community stop caring for legal services, whether state or rural. It is not the decision of a D.A. surgeon or the decision of public defence to impair that service. On the other hand, our task - both our government and our community - is to ensure that this service is extended because if there is one total ban and tens of thousands of schoolchildren cannot attend school, the state cannot pay all parents the pay. [[The president calls.]] This is one of the projects that the team started today must go through now. The purpose is to examine how we can continue to render the needed service. At this point, we cannot accept as a community that we cannot render this necessary service.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u53	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Clearly, I misunderstood some of his discussions about pay to the parents of children who now have to go home. I misunderstood the talk. A minister and thought that a minister was right to say that the committee considered whether the parents of children who now need to go home should also be paid because of some of the appointment by a psychiatrist. Hence, this vast limitation of education in the country will be limited. Is that right, then? A minister believes that it is not right for the law to take over to the parents of children who need to go home because of transportation? What about the parents of a child who needs to get hooked if a child has to go under for an infection because he has been in some home where someone has been sick or something like that? Is it parents only because your child needs to be exposed for health reasons? Is that why one parent receives permission for temporary payment or for the employer?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u54	A respectable president. Yes, when a child is cut off from a disease - control doctor, it is recommended that a person stay inside for 14 days, a recommendation he must not break because he is ordered to stay inside. Under such circumstances, it should be clear that the parent of the child can be in a contagion. In the case of a meeting ban, we as a community, the two administrative points in the country, on the one hand, and on the other, are to be held out of the necessary and legal service. We see that the schools are starting today, and we are getting reports that there are different ways - a legitimate service. The changing conditions of the meeting ban are being adapted. Social services and support for sensitive groups need to go through exactly the same work as the school system is doing, and that is what we, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Government and the Union of Iceland, are united in cooperation with P.S.P. this morning to ensure, i.e., to ensure, how we plan to see the conditions that the ban is about to ensure legal service. This bill here is unique in ensuring payment for those who are unable to do their job because they have been frayed under a contagion from a pathologist and health - care professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u55	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I think it's safe to declare that I support this case and hope that we can get it done quickly and in good condition. Committee. I will not give another speech unless I am forced to, i.e. none other than the answers. I think this is a very good business, but I'd like to ask the highest. Minister first if there is any limit to how often a certain person can get an infection bed or whether a new recommendation has to be given from a disinfectant every time. This may be important because over a period of three, four months, it may easily arise repeatedly that certain persons may be infected more than once. It is important, then, that anyone is taken out of all doubt as to the possibility of more than one infection. The other question I'd like to ask the highest. A minister for what is stated in the bill that it must be made clear that there must be a recommendation from a disinfectant on the environment. How will it be decided if a person is ill under the contagion, whether or not to go to a sick license? This may be a problem in order to catch up with people who are under a contour home to determine their illness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. In case of a moment. For example, for example, a candidate is in a district of infection, he receives instructions from a Dentist who is, in effect, a directive that he should remain in X for days or live by the recommendations that are made by the environment, which in this case, is 14 days. If a disease - control doctor began to change his work on a scientific basis and to send people for 20 days, 20 days will be infested. In case of a moment. A senator goes for 14 days, shows up, meets a person who is infected, and is entombed by another recommendation. What we're saying is that the decisions made by a psychiatrist regarding individuals are valid. If the person then gets infected by something other than Covid-19, he gets vomited, you'd still think he was under infection. Perhaps it would need to be sharpened in a report or a committee party. It would be unstable to intend to change it within the 14 days. Any person who is infected should be notified if he becomes ill. However, if a person is diagnosed with Covid during this 14 day period, he or she will be transferred to sick pay because of the presence of other motions from a disinfectant, the person who stops being infected, and is in isolation. It is another personal decision made by a disinfectant, and the one in isolation is sick and has the rights as a sick individual.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of clear and clear answers. It's like the highest. Minister is aware of the above exact same issue before the Senate committee, but I believe it is important that it enter the Senate that this is the understanding. This is what is called for from the highest order. Minister and I thank you for that. In the latter case, we can say that regulations 9 and 10. It should be enough to hold it. Based on what a minister has said, just as it would be necessary to intervening this point in a committee party, it would be sufficient to explain in a legal way that the rights of those whose rights are so unfortunate as to get infected, while so important in society to take part in the task of getting these diseases are absolutely clear and that there are no compromises in order to keep it as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u58	I agree with what. Senator, I think it would be good to sharpen this in a committee party or something because I've understood it this way. It can be read out from the bill, but it can be read as well. A senator mentions. If a person goes under twice, I think it's best to refer to the contents of Article 8. of the amount that is spoken of, three hundred thirty-three thousand c.E., which is in the month of the calendar. That's where we're saying it's the foundation. On the basis of the month it is 633,000 k.e. 21st,100 bucks. daily. Whatever the case, the decision made by a decommissionor is the recommendation and is therefore based on a monthly basis not only on these 14 days. That was a very good tip from a beard. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u59	Mr. President. These are unusual times, affairs come in here, they haven't gone through consultations. Work is being done both to handle and to do all the work. Now we've got a what? Like the case that was being discussed earlier, a welfare committee called a thief on the job of this matter. This is not a question. A welfare committee, however, has begun to include visitors on the basis of it. That seems to be quite clear to those representatives who came before the committee, i.e. The common relationship between Iceland and the Association of Employment, that they feel that somehow they have to catch some of the schoolchildren now living in poor school. Some people try to make them show up every other day, parts of a day, etc. Of course, some young children can easily be at home alone, but younger children find it harder to do so, and these members made a suggestion to the Commission for a change, saying that those living at this meeting ban that was recommended by a DG. I only came in on this in return to the highest level. Minister, but we didn't quite get it done. This was shown about the ban on the meeting, and the lack of school work that we see today is not applicable to this bill. We have an incident that we can see today from high school where a whole school seems to be infested and you wonder if there are any other rules that apply to the children who are surrounded by diseases rather than to a child who is unique in districts. Do we have to somehow try to win this thing, or do we add to the parents of infected children? Have we thus completely opened up to the fact that almost all society falls to this? Where are we going to draw the line? I realize that it is extremely difficult to cope. It's very difficult for the highest. A minister trying to create a bill like this, where we stand here in a pit, yet the Ponta AlIIis is the place where everything is moved. Therefore, you need to put here the worried voices that are heard, as well as the concern of the parents who have children who have some kind of limited ability. We're talking about children with disability who need a meeting ban now to be treated outside the school system, i.e. at home, because school has been passed out or because of a ban on meeting. The ban, of course, comes from a psychiatrist at the highest level. Minister of health, which declares meeting attendance. These are the tasks ahead of time. The welfare committee will be here for the next 24 hours. I just wanted to come up here for a word. I don't expect the highest. Minister will answer that question right now. Of course, it will continue to be done and the Ministry and the Ministry. Ministers will be back for the committee tomorrow to review the case. Somehow we need to look for ways to grab these families and these children, especially those who are more sensitive to their situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-76.u60	As in the previous article, I want to thank you for the discussions that have been discussed in this matter and in a talk. paritaprevir Helga Vaða Helgadóttir, chairman of the welfare committee. This is a complicated situation. We've been working with it on this bill when a DG surgeon decides to put the person under a lot of control. Because of the social ban, society is becoming severely restricted. Because of this ban on meeting, it is a challenge for education and social services to perform legal tasks. Hence, this week's rural development and the next school job that ensures that large amounts of children can attend school. It is not the decision of a psychiatrist that these children do not attend school or play school. It is the decision made by a psychiatrist that the way in which you go to school should be limited. It will be a challenge for us here and for our communities to keep this job out. It will also be a challenge to children with disabled children and others to carry out the legal service. We work together now with the local community, both the Minister of Education this weekend and so with us now, the Ministry of Social Affairs, with the Union's members, because we are not going to give out the line at this point that the law of education, whether it is education or services to disabled persons or other persons, we are not going to accept that we are not going to be able to carry out this law-enforced service. Rather, we will try to gather together for the next few days and weeks to make sure that we can provide legal services despite the limitations that are becoming in Icelandic society. That's why I say we're not at this point saying that we're gonna give up on it and pay all parents to be with their children at home, whether they have any special needs or just kids at school. Rather, we will try to support our rural communities so that they can accomplish this law - directed service. However, all of this can change, it can change in 24 hours, it can change in one week, so we need to have this good conversation going on between the European Commission and the legislatures, and especially between the state and rural society. The communities have a specific legal service, a state has a specific law - appointed service, and in these unprecedented circumstances, we must simply cut down the walls from there and work together to provide the services required by society. All the tips and speculations as well as the night. The speaker was very good. A man himself is sometimes confused about how to approach the matter, and I think we're all. Then I just want to say that I expect to be a good associate with a health committee in continuing to do this and that the committee to work properly with a psychiatrist and health care professional because the actions of the bill are the decisions made by a psychiatrist at a time. As I say, I thank you for this discussion and expect a good cooperation with a health committee. A senator.
