ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u1	Mr. President. In recent years much has been discussed and is really increasing, but remarkablely little has been done to respond with the tools available. Two. 13th par. This information code is stated by the President's permission: ▪ The Agency should work systematically to make files of a case, a list of language data, and the data itself equally accessible in an electronic way. This has not been done in 2012, although the Law was given. When raw data are available, it is harder to bullshit convincingly. That's how it would have been. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Minister of Justice could not claim it in response to my question about the maintenance of the CAP services recently that precise numbers are not available, as maintenance journals are very detailed in keeping with the Part-M EASA protocols. But the publication of data is not enough to eliminate information. It is also important that people know how to use the data. As such, e.g. For years it is criticized that only one economic model exists for Iceland, a model of a so - called random model or in English, with the permission of a president: Šgeneral stochastic equilibrum model. Such models are being fought in their seeds for having very limited forecasting values, but I understand that they are trying to improve this model now. It's also a model. proposed a core budget for the government, which, of course, is based on as much clouds as the previous year, in part because of the poor forecasting capacity of the model. And, of course, this may be even worse when you look at the present situation in which there is even more chaos in the economy. There are two types of response to information disorder: increased transparency and cooperation are required to improve the quality of the information available. If we cannot win war against our own ignorance, it is useless to try to win propaganda war.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u2	A respectable president. 1,193 children all over the country wait for an diagnosis or treatment of mental and psychological problems. The majority is the delay list at the Development and Behavioral Station where 584 children are waiting for analysis. 107 children are waiting for the diagnosis and treatment of the Children and Youth Department of the Lands Hospital, BUGL, and nine children are on the waiting list for hospitalisation in the department. This is shown in the response of Secretary of Health for me by Spísís Svavarsdóttir. What do these figures tell us? They tell us that we are waiting for children with mental disorders, not just for months, but even for years. And what are the consequences for those children? Their schooling is upset and their future. Is it disability? This can be avoided by making sure that children are not on such lists. But these are not the only consequences. What are the consequences for the families? No one realizes this, except one in the situation of waiting months, even for years, after an operation, after a simple treatment for a sick child. The pressures of the home can lead to loss of health and disability. The financial foundation of many of these families is totally infringement. Therefore I say, Is it not the time, in all the things which are going on, to make sure once and for all that children don't need - never - to wait for service?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u3	A respectable president. Inconsistencies have been found between the number of exports from the EU to the country and talk about import into Iceland's Habitat. This difference requires explanation, and if true, it is really very serious. According to official EU data, the number of agricultural exports from the EU to Iceland appears to be higher than found in the Agency's import data. There is considerable difference, even to hundreds of tons, in certain toll classes over a period of three years, e.g. there is a conflict of import on processed meat products of some 1,700 tons. The mountain range is about to rise between the trust that should prevail in treaties and control of them. This defect should not be present in agrienvironment schemes and all rules are clear regarding the import of a lower and no toll. What's going on? There's a lot of interest here, jobs in the country, plus lost tax pay for government funds. It is therefore the common interests of farmers, consumers and importers that the honesty of business has already been agreed on. You should be right. It is unacceptable that this is a violation of the rules of law and of both law and order. It is not enough to point out broken grounds for negotiations. There are contracts, and if not followed, the law is being violated and it should not be passed. It's not enough setting up a working group, it has to go into this. We're breaking the law here. If a person takes one lesson at Percontinent, he or she will be charged immediately and may even be imprisoned. However, this point cannot be formed as a group. It's going to be all right. Icelandic farmers suffer much damage due to lack of import surveillance. A gentle surveillance also results in loss of income for the state's funds. Uncertainty creates suspicion, so it can hardly be seen that there is a basis for compromising further protection on agricultural products. So everyone is losing, and especially consumers. Where's the surveillance?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u4	Mr. President. Nobody's gonna hide that the situation in Southnes is very serious. The lack of employment in the national part is about half that in the capital area where it is the second most. The lack of employment in Southnes was 21% in August and 16.1% among men. These numbers do not include people who are on notice, and things will get worse in the weeks to come. Loss of a job is a devastating blow. Especially do children of the unemployed, their schooling, need to be careful that they have enough to eat and can share in an organized schedule of leisure activities that requires money. We do not know when the epidemic will take place, but we see the other person who wants to see that those who lose their job and who go to unemployment will need more support from governments, and it must be done much better against unemployment, both men and women, especially in areas that will be the worst. Although unemployment is just the same as that of women, there is a gender barrier to government deduction. And resources for the part of the country that is missing most of the time. Here are some ideas for the government to cut down to meet the serious state of Southnes: Adding rural income loss and responding to increasing demand for social services, making sure that everyone receives six months of income - related income, not just some of them, raises basic employment benefits, and prolongs the right to unemployment insurance, promoting Southnes'health care, especially health care and mental - health care. In Southern Town, some 3,500 people live. There is no providing care, and there is an urgent need for day - to - day living for the elderly. All local educational institutions need extra funding to receive jobseekers who want to strengthen their positions, that should increase the contribution made to the better - looking parish members, to the cultural and massive build-up funds, and immediately address the construction of a marine barrier to the Njardún. I have other ideas for the government. There's nothing to do but grab the phone, and I'll go over it with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u5	V.E.G. President. First, I'm going to refer to the Constitution of the State Department. Economic and economic ministers, which proclaim a bill to be a law on changing various taxes and fees, to the third sector. This is in line with the suggestions given by a group of people to report this subject and suggestions to encourage and strengthen the taxable environment of the Third Sector. I'd like to welcome that reaction to the highest degree. The secretary of the budget, the secretary of the budget, to proclaim this bill. This is a very important matter. It is also stated in a budget bill that we talked about yesterday that it is estimated that 2.1 billion are going to support the Third Sector. The third sector is very diverse and very important, and especially all the volunteer work taking place in that sector. There are a number of studies that confirm that this strengthens the growth of young people. Participation in all organized sports and cultural activities supports their growth and improves long-term human health. There are a number of studies that confirm this. However, the service group examined the situation in the countries around us, and such comparisons revealed that in most lands, taxes are more than in the country. This is a matter of response, a respectable president, and I'd like to celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u6	Mr. President. We now continue our congregational ethic under unusual and in some respects difficult circumstances. We now deal with a wave of infections caused by the crown virus, which, of course, has an effect both in the community and in the local community. In this situation, you wonder: " What is the role of the council? First, of course, it is important for the council to hold, whenever possible, normal activities upstairs, normal democratic discussions, and to take up the discussion and make arrangements for the issues that are urgent in these times. The priorities during the discussion must take into account the situation. Besides such projects as budgets and related issues, at the council, we need to consider matters related to the government's response to the situation. We need to discuss these within the doors of preventive measures, how they are developed, and so on. We need to consider not only what has been done but also what needs to be done in the near future. I guess we'll have some chance to do that in the near future. Then we need to put economic and economic discussions first in our lives because, while health problems are of course, the economic factor will probably become the one that will follow us anymore, the economic response and how we are going to rebuild the economy in the country after this great disaster that needs to be looked very far back to the time to match up the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u7	Mr. President. This year, the Hall of Government Fund, which would be 10 billion, will be over 269 billion. In two years, it will be 533 billion. After the collapse of the bank, the ban was 194 billion, so the situation we face in the economy is difficult. We should do everything in our power to live up to the welfare system and, among other things, seek financial advantages in the government. Business drivers'organization predicts that as many as 30,000 people can be out of work for years, and this is a very serious situation. Mr. President. The financial bill is lacking clear aims for increasing activity. This year's financial investments are very important, and they need to be more. In the middle of the group, we stress the risk of even reducing the insurance. It's against unemployment. It is not a lost tax dollars, as many would like to think, because it promotes growth in jobs, and it is extremely important in this year's journey when unemployment insurance bills are paid up to 100 billion in two years. These funds are special in a way that allows them to be a campaign law when it comes to reaching the angle of the state's budget. The government is afraid to show itself to a high degree by detracting. That's too short for an election. However, surgery can be done without reducing assistance to the public. Of course, it is a good example for the government, but it does not even set for itself. She won't save her money. It receives 680 million on budgets that increase by 20 million per year when we are at the highest financial rate in a 100 - year budget. So you can see that there are many areas to be adjusted. I can name a lot of lawsuits. Secretary of finance said there was a bloody waste all over the public system, but he's not doing anything about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u8	Mr. President. Now, a few things are coming along. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice has announced in the Congress and the media that they intend to present a bill that will be canceled by a human committee. I have to say, I like the bill. It's like a word out of my mouth. Perhaps it is because I worked on the same issue just about a year ago. It was a human name bill that was given by the then council member and my fellow member at Uphold, Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson. At the time, it was very hard for the council. A name is closely linked to a self - image and to a person's sense of identity, primarily to personal interest and personal rights. Current human names are laid broad limits on the rights of people to control this right, limitations that cannot be reasoned with respect to public interests or other interests that are justified in modern society. People are to be trusted to rule their own name. The differences between the bill, Mr. President, may be the highest rate in terms of child abuse were in the Þorsteinn bill for the preservation of child welfare authorities, but the secretary's bill will be sought in the Children's emissary. That's the whole difference. In fact, I don't think there's much chance that parents will give their children hurtful names. Up to one, I wish the highest. Ministers of success with the intended bill and how it is successful to complete it and to contribute in time so that it can receive coverage and payment here at the council. Also, I wish it would be able to get it through their government without it losing the fundamental goal of people's personal name. I also wish her especially well - meaning in getting the case through my own ways, but there I have been shocked to see that men are liberal only in word but not on table.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u9	A respectable president. I'm coming up here to talk about liquor. At the same time called for targeted measures to support the severely affected sectors, the government presents an increase in taxation in the form of an increase in alcohol charge. It is to the head of those who say they need it. Cartelages and bars that calm with modern biotechnology get this rise from the government. There must be a link between the realities and the actions of the government, and this increase is not a matter of rhyme with the places facing the restaurants and the waves. The problem of the operation is obvious and intense, and it is always becoming brighter and more clear that these economic conditions are growing and increasing. Walking in central city of Reykjavík, e.g. In the evening, there is nothing more than it was. The lights on the restaurants are off, chairs stand on the table and space to make money is disappearing. That is why everything you can do to combat a business problem, to resist unemployment, must be done. We see colitical predictions from the employment agency on the development of unemployment. At the next New Year's Eve, there's a figure of 11.42% possible without work. We can also see that Iceland's unemployment has grown more than in the rest of the North countries. The incident in tourism and restaurants is far more important here than there. And it is as if they lack the understanding that the restaurants are part of the chain and the crisis of tourism. Now we face another heavy winter that is likely to be difficult, not just for disease prevention, but for economic and social reasons, we need to do everything we can together to cope with the consequences. At that time, governments need to be read to the situation and to act in harmony with it. One important factor is that governments avoid adding the financial side of an enterprise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u10	A respectable president. Last morning, at an unprepared inquiry class, it was the highest. Minister of Justice for word. paritaprevir Þurdörstein Sæmundsson on the issues of people who have applied for international protection. To make a long story short, the minister pointed out that in some lands surrounding us, people waiting for excommunication are being saved in limited areas while waiting for them to be expelled. Of course, the only thing that exists is a refugee camp or even a prison, and it is not an option on the part of a branch of the left - green council. As the minister said, there would be a change of law to become reality, and I will allow me to state that such a bill would not pass through my council, for there is no such issue in the Minister's Congress and nothing that it said should be carried out. Although Congress files are often updated with regard to social status, the left - green position would not change if such a matter appeared there. The subsequent discussion of the policy of the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, is also of no support in real life, as the Constitution states, by permission of the president: ▪ There have never been more refugees because of war, persecution, and environmental threats. Iceland will help solve the refugee problem and receive more refugees. The human language and international commitments will be put together as a basis for the good and effective handling of applications for global protection. In addition, there will be loyal cooperation in the service and assistance of those who receive such protection. A Federal Parliamentary Committee will be appointed to evaluate the implementation of foreigners, and after the events, they will be reviewed. Now I happen to be serving as a well-designed member of Parliamentary Committee, such as members of all classes at the General Assembly. I've said and said again that I will fight there for the fair, righteous, humanitarian treatment of people who attend here. I hope that other members of the council in this room, and especially those who have expressed themselves about these words of the Minister of Justice, will stand with me in it, for this is an idea, and it is not an option.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u11	Mr. President. A worldwide crown virus and infection in Iceland will surely reflect on our activities during the winter season. It is important that we, like everyone else in the community, follow its full precaution, and we see that this takes into account the work of Congress. Today, we are discussing the budget of the coming year and the financial plan for the coming year, and it is reasonable to consider such factors as the economic depression we are going through today as a result of a pandemic of the crown virus, high on the program and high in our discussion. Similarly, it is important to remember that in spite of a pandemic crown virus, there are routines and things that will not change in spite of it or in spite of it; there are other things that we need to change in spite of it. For instance, human changes in climate will not end. That is why it is important to think about that matter as well. Sadly, many countries still place a lot of money in their army and war effort instead of setting priorities for them in health matters as necessary. There's something we need to be aware of and discuss here. I am proud to be part of a country that does not have an army but can instead put money on health issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u12	The discussion will thus be conducted after the very beginning. Financial and economic ministers speak for members of Congress, but after that, or at any time. Fourteen o'clock, Prime Ministers, one after the other, will participate in discussions about individual lawsuits in their area. Will be there today and tomorrow. One member of the Parliament is expected to speak from each category. However, members of Congress may decide that two members of the Parliament speak for just two minutes each. The president wants to say that after the lead speech is given, there will be room for an answer to be granted. Ministers so that representatives of all government groups will be able to give a reply to a minister's speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u13	V.E.G. President. I recommend a judicial hearing on the financial agenda for the period 2021/2025 that has been distributed on the roof. 2. This budget is the third plan of the government and is basically based on a current financial programme and revised financial policy, as well as the government's response to the economic consequences of the present epidemic. It thus includes implementation of the aims of the last financial and financial policies and economic policies on income development, pay and the economic situation of public citizens, i.e. Part A, part of a country, and a community, and a business owned by them. Especially in the face of today's challenge, it is important for government officials to make financial decisions in terms of the government's economic and financial issues to minimize the negative effects of the crown viral epidemic on the national economy and on the standard of life. The first reaction to the economic effects of the pandemic crown virus was to use a stable state of state funds to protect homes and businesses from the ultimate trauma. With largely improved donations for unemployment benefits, whether due to loss of employment or employment - I allow myself to take the part-time benefits in this discussion - along with the pay for condensation and special child benefits etc., I am able to greatly reduce the acute loss of domestic income caused by sudden failures and lack of mass work. Sources were also offered powerful support, including By postponement of tax payments, support for pay of notice, closing grants and support and extra loans with state responsibility. In addition, the Office of Money Bank's actions came, especially by a great decrease in the direction of interest rates and a reduction in financial financial financial costs. The purpose of these measures was to support financial and financial status and to provide the company and households where possible and to bring them forward to better economic conditions, with hopes for the short term of the epidemic. From the springtime onward, we had it as a guide. However, the Koran virus epidemic has fallen worldwide, and it is now clear that the epidemic and the rest of the population will have a major impact on the livelihood of the people for the next few years. Therefore, it is important that government approach take account of this and that measures will be adjusted, I want to tell them a new reality. With contributions and approval of the revised financial policy in the beginning of September 18, 2018,022, the beginning of the formal program was to apply the economic policy so that the strong economic conditions that had been built up in the previous decade would be new for a more powerful resistance to the deep economic recession. To do the same, it was decided to depart for three years from the universal financial laws of public finance, such as the law's law of law. As in most places around us, the economic recession and the government's actions against the epidemic will result in a rapid increase in debt. A combined tail of 2020 and 2021 could be about 600 billion. Thus, government debt by the law on public finances may increase from 28% of GDP by the end of 2019 to 48% in 2021. If none is to be done, the result will be a 5 to 66% of GDP in the year 2023/22025 due to the imbalance in income management systems based on economic activities that have been brought together because of the epidemic and the development of budgets made before it flared up. This would result in an increase in debt rate per year and a 65% of GDP at the end of the period and an appearance of continuing to rise even thereafter. In this situation, it is necessary to replace the countless financial rules over the three years that the government law allows room. Otherwise, about 6% of GDP would have to be inclined to down to 2.5% at once. Such a reversal would, in its simplest form, call for about 120 billion dollars. Maintenance arrangements in 2233 at today's prices Additional measures would have to be taken as an average sensitivity of about 40 billion in the years 2024 and 2025, which would be the first time for the next 40 billion years. However, the result could be less economic activity, with a decline in government income and continued salutation. In this way, government arrangements would reduce the energy of the economy. Such actions would be canceled, thereby delaying the restoration of the economy and thus by public funds. The expansion of financial programmes by 2023 families2025 will result in the continuation of the universal financial rule in those years. It is assumed that a special legal hearing on the arrangement will be submitted to the General Assembly of these days along with the financial programme. The bill is aimed at allowing governments to adjust government budgets to allow for the long - term consequences of this dramatic failure, once the economy is restored, with the aim that financial guidelines can go back and by the year 2026. - I think the bill's already done. In view of this temporary arrangement, the government considers it important that a clear and practical policy should be established by a baseline law that will be guided by all financial decisions until the rules return: to stop the increase in the debt of the government as a percentage of national product in the future than in the final year of the financial programme. This primary objective of the programme is the key to disrupting the interest cycle of salinisation and remuneration in order to regain the government's financial status in the future. To achieve this goal, some 37.5 billion dollars are needed. each year, some 3% of the government's well - being. This is more than 1% of GDP. It is based on the basic form of public financial and economic forecasting. By such efficient action, the gross debt of the government would be more than 230 billion. less at the end of 2025 than if not reached. The collection is expected to stop about 59% of GDP instead of becoming about 65% of GDP and continue to rise further, i.e. stop the debt rate below 60% for the government. Thereafter, the debt rate began to decrease the basis for economic growth in the strategy. Actions of this magnitude are needed to ensure continued sustainable government finance, that their position contributes to economic stability, and that the state's funds will be used to provide resistance to future economic events. It is something that all of us must agree that today we benefit from, that we have made progress, that we need to think in this way for an extended period of time. Otherwise, a baseline law on public finances, especially about sustainableity and stability, would be opposed, which should not be overlooked also in the place of financial regulations. We need such new primary goals when we no longer have detailed rules to support ourselves, we are removing them. It is important to remember that there are no bulimics in sight who are similar to those who lost a Kingdom fund in connection with the renovation of the bank crash and the decommissioning of the budget. We cannot be sure that we will receive large mackerels, such as they did, as new assets into our economic history, and no one will know how much it was then. Likewise, there is the big change that did not involve tourists, but we must still want to work on getting new tourists to come to the country. Every infrastructure is there to take it, but we do not have it all under control. But all of this will mean that we gain control of our debt so that it will be totally manageable. Of course, here we hang the debts, the credit rates, the credit rates. You can't overlook that. We are confident that we will continue to enjoy some good loans. The proportion of debt decreases according to this strategy primarily with increasing interest. A respectable president. I'm just going to go into the plan for a little bit more detail. The budget of budgets is based on the budget based on the budget of the last financial programme in addition to the costs associated with the epidemic, such as a special investment campaign in the 2021/2023 and the increase in unemployment expenditures over the period, which are classified as an automatic rhythm of the financial situation, which plays a major role in the subsidies of the economy in protecting the budget of households. It is estimated that the investment and building initiative at a total of 119 billion over the period of the programme, but because of the scope of some projects, it also covers 2024 and 2025. In particular, investment investments were designed to increase economic growth, provide adequate profit, and thus have a positive economic and social impact. The budget of financial programmes is shaped on two aspects: on the one hand, by the government's emphasis, it is intended to reduce spells with the idea of increasing the provision of money and improving the competitiveness of employment. However, economic developments following the Korean virus epidemic. The next year the budget will permanently decline by 34 billion on the underlying basis, and the rate of taxes and insurance costs has not been below average since 2010. The largest single tax action by the government during the current terms was a review of the individual income tax system. This means that taxes decline by 21 billion each year. The last steps take place at the end of the year. In addition, insurance costs have dropped a total of 8 billion per year, but more is expected to reduce the rate of pay by 4 billion per year in 2021 according to the latest government declarations. This is to face the effects of a contract-based pay raise in a general labour market. In addition, the government has directly reduced other laws related to the epidemic. This includes: For example, there is increased paybacks of the cost tax, one of the largest tax action next year; extending the campaign so that there are full reimburses in accordance with this effort in 2021. It is very useful for individuals as well as for their communities. In this context, we can also mention that hostilities and toll payments were dropped, as well as the rapid decrease in bank tax. It will reduce the tax burden of financial institutions, i.e. The bank tax, which accounts for 6.6 billion next year. Of course, our goal is that the financial system is better equipped for home and employment. We have hoped that the decrease in the amount of money and the desire of tax decisions will result in the decision made by the banks to stand with their clients. Finally, I would like to refer to the planned reduction of a fiscal tax with an increase in the stock market and a review of the stock capital tax set expected in next year's budget bill. Genetic tax changes are the largest or least-inclusive of the world's population, with an increase in the 5 billion free income market. K. as you think it will be the first 5 billion. K. of every death without tax. Finally, a respectable president, I'm going to say that we've achieved significant success in the financial affairs in recent years, and this gives us the resistance we need now. We are in a position to deal with a serious battle, but we must still have a plan to stop our debt collection. This is essential if we are to have minimal credibility behind the present challenge. It has also been successful in obtaining corporate debt and home and, in fact, rural society, in the right direction during the recent economic growth. The main challenge of the government during the course of the program must be reversed by this massive battle of the year. We must not be discouraged if there is a high level of sliding, thinking that the exchange is not a loss of money. It is to support the economy, and this is the right economic policy under these circumstances. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. There is much to say, but only a limited amount of time. I'm going to make this work as my entry here with the previous discussion of this plan. I suggest that the program be referred to the panel after a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u14	A respectable president. We are discussing the future budget for the next five years. V.E.G. The secretary of finance earlier in his talk about the estate said that the first five million people would be taxless. But they will continue to be a chain reaction to the government's insurance agency. And I'm asking, "Do you think it's the best?" Would it be natural for any who have at least been able to obtain a few crowns, even if they were an inheritance, to make sure that they have to stay for the rest of the year? They should pay while others who have it so much better don't have to pay. Does he feel that the system that has been created normal and has any plans to change it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u15	A respectable president. There are many things to say about our social security system, but you can't say it's bad or it's not a custom to help those who have mentioned them. I think sometimes it would be nice for people to imagine that we had no social security system, just nothing, and ask ourselves in those circumstances: If we were to start building a new social security system, who would we really want to help? Would we help the newly inherited people? Would we compare them to those who had no inheritance? I think we would first help those who had no inheritance. I think we'd first help those who had no other income, no income, no pension income, no capital pay, no rent, no other revenues. I think we'd reach out to that people first. That's what our social security system does today. It is called impairment when we make it appear that some have more to play than others do. However, there are other terms for such efforts, and it is simply to direct the money to those who have least. Then people can experience all of this as being very unfair and want to get more out of the reformers. But somebody has to live up to it. Somewhere, we'll have to make some money. And right now, we're letting these systems work with full force, despite the loss of state funds at 260 billion angles, nearly 300 billion angles in the current year. In the next two years, it is reaching an angle of almost 600 billion. And they say the systems are unfair. I say, we are putting forth tremendous effort to defend these systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of the budget for the answers, but I have to ask him: " Is it fair to get, here and now, with my income, for a price of five million dollars, that I can do what I want, but if I inherited the position I was in before, I couldn't? Then I should be paying back to the state infringement. All taxable revenues reduce the benefits. Does a minister really think that's fair? Why is everything in this group, no matter what, impaired unless it's tax free? The others who have it really well and, as a result, do not have to get this tax free could pay taxes. This is the unfair thing about this system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u17	Hv. A senator says that if an inheritance fell in the position he is now, he would be free to give it away, but an invalid or someone who receives benefits from the social security system would need to be damaged and would not be a free inheritance. But this isn't right. What is right about this is that he is fully free to take over his inheritance and take it as he pleases. However, your inheritance may affect what your social security system considers the need to provide much support to the individual. The social security system makes it clear that if one has not inherited a inheritance, the other may have received a total of 10 to 20 million, it is only right and fair to look first to the one who did not receive the inheritance. You can say that it's unfair. But it is just trying to maximise the use of limited funds in behalf of the weakest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u18	Mr. President. In a financial program, we will see government plans until the next five years. Let us examine six topics and let the figures speak. Why are contributions to innovation being decreased by 23% from the beginning of the programme to the end? Haven't we been told that innovation is the way out of the crisis? Why are transport contributions being reduced by 31% over the next five years despite a great worldwide need? Why are contributions to culture, art, and sports being reduced by 13% over the next five years? Is that not enough to be pressed? Why is the increase only about 4% environmentally in the next five years? Aren't you supposed to be the top priority? Why do high school donations take place in the next five years? Shouldn't you be a high school student? And finally, how is it that there will be a decrease in donations for nursing during the next five years when the nation is growing old? These are all key topics that can be read very clearly in a financial plan to reap less money in five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u19	A respectable president. The key explanation that in the last year of the programme, money is lower than the highest in the timetable period is that a temporary, very vigorous effort will be completed. If teams such as innovation, research and development are examined over a period of time, we will see that during the past year, a contribution to innovation has increased by about Four times the increase, if we look at e.g. in 2005. The fact is that we have not only been making large donations for innovation but we have come up with additional efforts now that are particularly challenging. If we were to use that approach as long as possible. A senator will make it so that we take all the soup money into a pot and scatter it to be least first and then raise it every year so that we have most of it. But that's not the perfect strategia. It's not the right approach. It's not the right course in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u20	Mr. President. In fact, there are 35 topics, and most of them have an increase in the five years, five years from now. I used to run the six areas of paint that have a shrink. That's what I'm criticizing. Why do these metabolic areas decrease while others experience an increase? Why do culture and art have a fall? Why does transportation get a reduction? Why does the innovation get a reduction? At the same time, many other aspects of life are raised. I'm not saying that everything gets a shrink in five years, so it's not, that's the six topics I'm worried about. I've been arguing with the Minister that there's not enough here. The investment campaign he mentioned is called the government's investment and building initiative. This accounts for only 1% of national production. That is not enough to cope with this deep crisis. The innovation addition is only 0.3% of national product. Why don't we make the political decision to put even more money into innovation, financial development funds, high pay ratios to film and TV types, etc.? [[The president calls.]] The ideas aren't missing, but they're short of funding, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u21	A respectable president. If we look at the innovation specifically, because it is one of the areas in which we need to focus. A senator wants to emphasize, then we had at the beginning of the season just about 15 billion earmarked innovations and developments, and we will be in the last year's program of 20 billion. That's a 5 billion increase. That is an enormous increase to 15 billion. On the other hand, if we take the most elevated years, it is true that during the final years, we are temporarily reducing the effort. And then I'll be surprised. This is how a senator talks about the government's investment efforts to over 30 billion. 30 billion is no small number, and we're talking about getting it out in 12 months. He's talking about it as if it's trivial, 1% of national production. It's just a big deal. It is important to have practical projects for an average of 3 billion hard work each month. It's a big deal and saying that it's no big deal to whip it into 2% of the country's production and show that 3% would be better, that we could just add 10 billion a month, is not a proper approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u22	Mr. President. Now I believe that there is a lack of ambition in this program when it comes to taking over the affairs of government. In recent years, there has been not much economic policy within the Council of Government, and it has long been time to set up an attack on the public system and reduce public activity. The government must be manipulated under these circumstances, it is clear, and it can be done easily without affecting those who now need assistance. If there's no reason to save on the government budget now, when there's a state's run in history, that's never gonna happen. V.E.G. A financial minister said there was a bloody waste all over the public system in a media interview show a few months ago. So I'd like to ask the highest. Financial Minister: Where do signs in this program show that this bloody waste in the public system should be stopped?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u23	A respectable president. We're going to remove the waste by using data and information technology. We're going to go into a digital revolution to make the government business more transparent. We're not only going to stop wasting people's time and businesses but also the time and energy of the public system in general, including the government workers, using digital technology for our benefit. The next major project in this field is the book of Congress. Imagine all the waste of making paper available to a businessman who could pass electronically and do almost automatic work. It's a waste from many places. On the other hand, when it comes to it, I ask back. A senator announces that we should perform a far greater economy demand, and in view of the fact that the vast majority of the State's budget is the health and welfare system: where do they see it? A senator's opportunity for a special economy?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u24	Mr. President. I'll answer that, even if it's not exactly the rules that I'm answering queries from the highest level. Secretary of finance. I can give you an example. I see, for example. There is no reason why we need to add so much to the climate in the situation in which we are. The climate is not to be put ahead of the public's standard for living in this particular situation. The increase from year to year in the environment is 4.4 billion. If a treasure is withdrawn and strengthened to the urbane in irrigation matters, that is still 2 billion. There are many ways of doing so. I give the topic party international protection. You can't talk about him, you can all go in gear and put yourself in all kinds of positions. There are 3 billion in international protection. The main part of the people coming here in the country is looking for a better standard of living. That's true and I respect that. But we're supposed to do those applications in 48 hours, as the Norwegians do. We can't. We don't do it the way it is today. We're keeping these people up for months. That's 3 billion. [[The president calls.]] I've given you two examples here, chief. Secretary of finance, where money can be adjusted and used to help the people who really need it now in the greatest unemployment of all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u25	A respectable president. It was as if I didn't think there would be an example from the big charge carts, whether from health or from health issues. We can just ask ourselves, " Is it a good thing to invest in climates and to go into energy exchanges and to do better as a greener future society? ' I believe that there's money that's well spent there, and by trampling the environment, we're sending the bill to the future. It is not proper to approach the environment under the heading that there is some way in which climate is involved. And even if it was all clear and pure climate, I think it can be presented both environmental and economic evidence that it is a good investment. With regard to international protection, we're right behind us. A senator that if we lose natural efficiency in our security system, it will cost us a lot of money. There is this balance between humanity and efficiency that the system is about. If we don't have much efficiency, it's gonna cost us a lot. [[The president calls.]] We have an average of approximately 500 people under cover are being found, and that requires a lot of money. That's right. [[The president calls.]] But there is no way to create expectations that we will be spared all costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u26	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prehistoric finance minister. I'd like to talk to the highest possibles. Secretary of finance on the state of the local community and how the financial plans and financial laws speak to them. The country's decomposition is now not good. They have developed their plans and their figures and have assumed that this year's recovery will be about 33 billion under schedule and about 50 billion more than planned in 2021. Of course, because of a drop in income, because of unemployment and a decrease in job activities, there are larger social costs for financial support of various types. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of finance whether he feels that it is enough to do in any government - related programs, whether he cannot agree that it needs to be done more than that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u27	A respectable president. In discussions about relations between state and rural society, I find that sometimes I forget that we live in a country where the government is independent. I'd like to review pars. Substitute government law. It reads: The country is divided into rural communities, which themselves control their affairs on their own responsibility. Take care of yourself for your own responsibility. They're independent of income companies, and they're not on budgets. I believe that the question will soon be answered about individual groups of subjects, whether it is regarding financial relations between state and rural society or others, whether there is much to be done. Of course, it's a little thoughtful eventually. But what we've recently done is that we've been able to get together on the big film with our rural society with a special agreement on the development of debt and the development of the next few years. The government has recently issued a declaration to support specific areas of activity that are particularly weak, we have made an assessment of the topic areas, and we have agreed to stay close together to identify the situation and take action as necessary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u28	Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for reading Article 1. The local government laws. He just read there. On the other hand, rural society has a far different resource from the State when it comes to problems. They do not have the strength that the State has. They cannot print money, and they depend on the legal responsibilities that the State places on them. Now they are hit by a huge shock, and I allow myself to doubt, so I don't speak strong, that it's enough to be done. It is imperative that rural communities can handle their roles, they can stimulate their own investments, and they can live up to the social challenges they have to deal with, and they really have no choice. [[The president calls.]] Or is the highest. Secretary of finance talking about cutting down on legal arrangements given to them by the State?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u29	A respectable president. The government is only in the same league as the locals when we don't have a money machine. We just have our own bank. We don't print any money. We need to borrow these loans, we need to pay them back. And because we're talking about the rhythms and the economic recession, our communities are more protected than the state, including the U.S. Because the state is taking full advantage of the personality discount and receiving e.g. expeditation of unemployment. I'm not going to belittle the power of income, but it's still in a better shelter than the State's. This includes: Consider the report that was published this summer. But we've been taking special action. The reduction in insurance costs is of utmost importance to rural society. The extension of the reimbursement tax is extremely important. The strength to drive-off jobs is important and the strength to promote hobbies in rural areas. All of this is important. This is a number of billions that we are making specific arrangements for. [[The president calls.]] And this is beyond what we had decided to do in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u30	President. In order for the Council to make an informed decision on the legal authority, it needs information to explain the scope and purpose of the documents requested by the Commission. It should be of course, but just in case, the General has passed a law on what information the Minister should provide to the General for financial and financial matters. The minister shall state his policy with a comprehensive long-term strategy using time - set priorities for projects and their funding. The need for adjustment should be evaluated, for direct or indirect effects on the individual tasks. It should explain how action will contribute to the overall improvement, increase in efficiency and development. The requirement is far higher than that of a person in a detailed language in the public financial legal form of a bill. I would like to ask a minister if there are any conditions discussed in the law. More than that, I know it's not done. I just want to hear a minister say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u31	A respectable president. I must say just as it is that at times I find interest in each other. A senator's morphologicalally overshadows all the Prarkish thought. We have a government system that accepts its legal obligation to account for the legal proposals and financial contributions to the Member State. We've never had more ability and effort in Iceland to work on both next year's plans and much less in the long run. But, hey. A senator steps up to see that we are so far from where we should be. On the other hand, I'm coming from the other side. I see the progress, I see the reform, I see the support of which this Council and the Council will provide both the Council and the Council, I see the changes in the procedure and discussion here at the council. We are making progress so dramatically that we cannot compare how this discussion is being handled today with that of earlier times. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Although there may be something wrong with the most rigid formalities, I ask men to open their eyes and see the change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u32	President. When I'm at the highest. The minister has already said that he is not following the government laws on government finance, I would like to hear him explain how it will affect the Senate and the financial resources if the Council is not able to provide enough information from the European Commission to make informed decisions on financial matters. If voters are not allowed to see the government's logical support for one project being more important than another, what will be the result? It should be kept in mind that the laws on public finances are made by the exact same minister and are trying not to apply them. In fact, hypocrisy can be found anywhere in that fact if some are interested in it. But I'm just interested in knowing why a minister doesn't follow the law. All the questions in this discussion have been about the lack of information. People are looking for answers. Why this and not the other? It's in the law to get them answers. Only then would the discussion be different. Yes, it's developing because we're demanding the law. Since we are not yet there, we are still in certain non-political questions. [[The president calls.]] That's why the form is important. It's practitional that a minister gives this information back. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u33	A respectable president. I completely refuse to have said here in my previous answer that we were not going to do the law. What I said was that. It seems that a senator is totally discouraged from seeing through the formalities and seeing the progress that is taking place in these matters. In my opinion, there is a complete shortage of practitional thinking in the course of argument. Senator. We can take one topic class, one subject after the other. We can use health care as an example in which health care projects are properly described in this program. The greatest challenges and opportunities to reform are open. Then there are goals and standards, and three goals have been defined for this particular category: more efficient and accessible services for patients who seek health care. Second, increasing patient access to a broad range of mental - health services. And third, a reduction in the incidence of life-related diseases. Then, under each category, the development of budgets over time is reviewed to support these primary objectives. To stand here and claim that we are returning empty paper, that we are in no way meeting the goals and conditions of the law to recognize for what purpose we wish for government funds, that just doesn't hold any opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u34	Mr. President. As we have seen, the main challenge of a financial program in the years 20211⁄22025 is to reverse a major battle, no later than in the final year of the strategy, which should be taken into consideration here. A great drop in the budget for some year has many negative consequences to national preparation, and the plan also says that achieving the goal would require an increase in the financial resources of less than 38 billion in the coming years. It is essential that the government's financial resources be self-sustained, but it does not show how this should be done. Clearly, the government is reluctant to tell the truth. This is simply a check for future tax increases and a published tax reduction that has already been implemented and introduced will be expected to be short-lived unless economic growth becomes much more unlikely and is established in the schedule on page. 22, with President's permission: It is unlikely, however, that growth will be such that measures do not need to be taken to stop the growth of debt. Economic growth in Iceland has been more fluctuated than that of our neighbors. The economy has ended up small and open, and the shock of our largest industry, our tourism, has had a significant impact on its growth and development. Recently, the World Council changed financial policy into a way that allows more space for spending without funding. It allows for more debt collection, and thus, the state's tail can reach a maximum of 7◯16% of land production. I mentioned in the discussion of financial policy that it could be more transparent in terms of darker scenarios and the formation of the uncertainty gap. It is not stated in the financial policy of which the government will borrow to finance the estimated palace, whether it will be within the country or outside. A collection of about 1,200 billion dollars in financialism. And the debt of the government will likewise increase over that amount. If the uncertainty shift is new to the limit, the government debt in Part A will be more than 2,000 billion in the coming years, and the government's debt could study up to 64% of land production. These are huge amounts, Mr. President, and most indicate that the public in Iceland will live up to this debt, but it is important to live for a long time, so that debt is reduced. In the future, there will be other economic events, and it is important that the public can cope. This is linked with the future economic prosperity and the public discipline. In general, public debt should be subject only to investments and taxes. Clearly, during the financial policy there is an increase in debt used to finance, in part, business and transfer. It does not show how much debt is associated with investments. Intensification is growing, and the trend in the situation in which we are living should be very closely monitored. If the harbor bank employs the money policy in an effort to influence economic growth, unemployment, and real - life growth by systematically expanding the economy, it causes instability and a growing inflation. A balance of gold is needed here. An extensive government loan is predictable in the years to come. It must be thought that financial policy and money policy work together well, and the government does not push out private investors with their business ventures into a loan market and more may be involved in the interaction of financial policy and money policy in this financial agenda. Interestingly, the total cost for hospital services is reduced in budgetary programme after 2020, while OECD calculates that the next few years will require an increase in health care expenses in Iceland, e.g. due to an increase in the numbers of the elderly. Granted, the reduction in the implementation of a new hospital will be in the period, but there will be room for the expected increase in health care costs and this schedule will not be covered. Economic policies have changed somewhat in the basis of financial programmes. In an updated financial policy, there was an estimate of 4.8% of interest in the next year, but in the financial programme, a 3.9% increase in GDP is expected next year, and the Ministry of Economics estimates that the geometric effects of public spending are positive by 0.33/49.0.4%, indicating that the increase in emissions by 1% of GDP results in an equivalence of economic growth by 0.33/40.4.4% as stated on page 4. 33 of the budget. It is important to make good use of these positive effects, making the most of their jobs. Despite a considerable change in projections for future years, forecasting about unemployment in the next year is the same as in an updated financial policy or about 6.7%. There is a significant chance that unemployment can increase next year if economic interest rates have deteriorated. There are darker predictions of unemployment. As a result, I believe that the cost of unemployment is underestimated in this program, and it could exceed 100 billion for the next two years. How important it is, then, to promote creation, and the government must have a credible policy in this regard. The role of the State is very important here. I'd also like to step out a little more of the state's debt collection. Even though it is the best available option for the unprecedented economic conditions in which we are living, the collection of debt is still a major concern. We always have a loan to pay back. According to this strategy, debt does not stop raising until 2025 as a percentage of land production. There is the danger that if action is not taken, the debt ratio of state and community may be about 65% of land production. What a dramatic change that is for the worse in a short time! So it is important to stimulate economic growth, and it is a long time and concern that it takes five years to balance government interests. The budget estimates that next year the percentage of the state funds will be negative by 264 billion and about 800 billion by 2021/2025. The state's debt is going to rise to 1,250 billion by the end of this year and to 4,30 billion more than expected in budgets. With the new financial policy, we are looking at some 2,000 billion people in a few years. The next year, it is expected to increase by about 268 billion and to exceed 1,500 billion by the end of the year or by more than 41% of land production. Low interest levels and payment on loans for money at a good price are certainly positive in this regard, but that is not how it will be in the future. We are expected to raise the money back in less than a short time, and the government's budget will rise. The budget does not exist, nor is it stated in a financial programme what results the government's antiviral pack, up to tens of billions, have yielded, despite the fact that public financial legislation allows to assess the effectiveness of these measures. The government's actions were characterized by a number of despair and were not well prepared, as we saw so clearly when problems such as cut - off options began to be used without needing them. This was simply an insufficient preparation of the law. The wealth is the common fund of all of us. Misuse of it always comes in the back of humans later in one way or another. It is obvious that elections are on the move, and although economic growth is expected to occur right away in the new year and tourism is being restored, expenses are not reduced. In that sense, this budget and financial plan may be identified with the election that lies ahead. The next government is to bring down the balance of state funds. The government that has less than a year left of its administration feels that it is important that a clear and realistic policy should be set up to stop an increase in government debt as a share of national production over the end of the financial programme, thus disrupting the cycle of noise and debt to restore the government's financial status, as the financial programme says. However, the government does not have the courage to show itself to a high degree by reducing the progress and wastefulness of the government, as the secretary of finance has mentioned. That's too short for an election. The requirement for efficiency and economy in all government activities is to be met and that is lacking in this financial programme and, as mentioned here, the government's policy must be established. It can easily be done without affecting the person we now need to help with these problems and the heavy unemployment. That it takes five years to balance the government's finances is a very long time, and the proposal is not assumed for subsidies but as a reduction in the proportion of GDP. The debt is thus to be earned. Then the government's budget has little space, and the next government will have to make difficult decisions, that's perfectly clear, Mr. President, but we see the need to pay close attention to how we put the government's priorities in these difficult situations. [[The president calls.]] I really hope that we will get a good discussion of this financial plan because it is very important to the position we are in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u35	Mr. President. We've got a rather short period of time for the previous round. And I'm gonna try to make good use of it. Of course, it's a little conflicted with yesterday's discussion of the budget bill, but fine. The first thing I want to draw attention to when we read this financial plan for five years is that the basis for the plan is full-screened, in my opinion. This has already been pointed to in the past when it comes to financial, financial, and financial policies. Although we're hoping for a better place in the economy, our predictions need to be realistic, I've had this conversation with the Ministers before, and there are more predictions than the Habitat. In this financial program, for example. expected relatively low inflation. I want to tell you from this chair that I think the inflation is something we need to fear. The inflation has always taken off at the fall in our economy. I know the situation isn't exactly like the last crash, just far from the top, but when the crown's gang yields, it's all paid off to inflation. We hope for the best, of course. I gave a similar talk when we were discussing the budget, the predictions of inflation were too optimistic, and it came to the day that both the Sullen and other people had been raising their inflation predictions. Inflation is something that we especially need to watch out for. She's poison to the bones of Icelanders, as everyone knows. Another thing I'd like to draw attention to in this financial programme to five years of age is that it will show up for surgery in two years, let's call it an unattracted surgery. It is possible to meet him with tax changes, but it is an operation that we need to watch out for. Instead, they want to extend the period they are going to reach down the slope. I know that the saddle is great, and we have to pay it down, of course, but there's not as much need to pay this state's palace down as the person we had to pay after the collapse of the bank, since the tail was even. financed by foreign funds. What I'm afraid of if we have a severe surgery after more than two years is that the number of people who enjoy public service will be affected. And who are they? It is poor people, poor people, older citizens, students, and patients. It is these groups that use public services and the most large part of the government budget, of course, for social and health matters. If you're going to get some numbers down too hard and too fast, it'll bite on those groups, so I want to encourage the top. Ministers and senators all - there will now be a new government - to take longer to pay this historical down. It's not that much of a rush. The third point I would like to mention, which I also mentioned at the summer Summit, is that this financial program is being maintained. I know it's not big, but it's still there for hospitals and schools for this year and the next. I find that in Covid's time, we have this requirement, although small, it's still important that we set standards for these institutions. It is also held at 2021 and 2022, but it is so remarkable that there is no room for hospital and school in 20233 and 2025. I would have thought this should be the other way around, that we shouldn't have the hospital, health care, aging institutions and school at the time of Covid, but once we've overcome the Covid, they'll have access to a routine, they'll choose it. V.E.G. In interviews the other day, the secretary of finance said that in view of the situation, we would simply have to run faster, the situation would be like that. I wonder who will run faster. Is it the nurse? Is it the police? Is it the orderly, the school team, the teacher? Is it disability, students? [[Upwards: senators.]] Yes, senators. I wondered if we are throwing our burdens on those who are already overcrowded. We need to be on guard when the blow strikes. In this hall, we have been able to deal with it repeatedly whether it can be distributed evenly when it comes to government spending, and especially when it comes to paying the money. I'm gonna do a little numbers. This is the nature of the case, according to Congress on numbers. I was criticized for being too much in percent, but I don't think that's particularly critical. I think it's okay to look at numbers. Money is about numbers, and it's good to put them in a percentage context. In answer to me, I gave six language fields. I encourage people to review financial programs and Table 7. If people don't trust these numbers from my mouth, they're at least white and white. six case groups that receive less years 2020 and 2021, unlike other cases. It's not like every group of paintings gets into this. These are proverbial groups, like innovation and research. The decrease is 23%. It's a big reduction. We see that transport is reduced by 31% in five years, and culture, art, sports, and youth. Why are you lowering it? It's going down by 13% over the next five years. Then there is the environment that is the priority of the government, anyway. The total number going into the environmental environment is increasing by more than 4% between 2021 and 2025. It's a group of paintings that should just go on growing, absolutely. We should always put handsome in that lawsuit. Climate crisis is not a problem related to Covid. This is a problem we need to take very seriously, whether it is short - term or long - term. In 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025, high school get the same money. There's a lot of educational programs here, and I don't realize that it can include just keeping seawater there. So it's a little strange, of course, we'll discuss this better on the Committee, that nursing and rehabilitation services get a slight reduction in five years. I don't understand that in view of their age. It cannot be said that there is a reasonable explanation that everything is falling between 2021 and 2025, since the majority of the cases are increasing. Usually, we always add. We have prices, and then they appear in different political groups where they want to add. These are key issues that I would think many of the administrative categories would care about; environment, culture, innovation, transportation, and nursing. It's not like they're cross-borders. This is something we need to understand. If I go to a few things, it's odd to see a financial program and a budget bill that we talked about only yesterday, certain factors that get a direct reduction in the next year. And who are those who get a shrink next year? It's State Radio. It's the Contestant. It is a joint called nature protection, forestry, and land healing. Foreign affairs get a reduction next year. Next year, the University of Akureyri gets a fallout, which I don't quite figure out. At the end of the next year, the gardening industry will be on its way. There's only an increase next year, and then it's just a substitute. I thought we agreed that there was a huge increase in support of our gardening, domestic vegetable production, ranging from right to left and middle. I thought we could at least... They are united, but they seem to have no more ambition than to keep seawater there. For the next five years, child - welfare will be replaced. The money's almost gone. I'll mention it as an example because last time the Union was in the government, she actually put twice as much in child support as this government does, twice as much in the season of election. In this respect, politicalism will not be clearer. Then I can find a unique organisation that is special to have a reduction in the number of projects they are dealing with. I present as an example of state diagnostic and counseling. She's getting a shrink after next year, despite waiting lists and a lot of need. The increase in this poverty - stricken and elderly card is mainly due to an increase in this group, as both the Microcreatization Union and the Old Citizen's Fole have given a rather severe warning against these cops. If people think they're some political game coming out of that chair, they're not at all. I repeatedly quote reports and stakeholders, and I'm saying exactly what they say. The microcreature union is very strong, saying that it sees little hope in this bill and in a financial program. I've gone a little bit over the unemployment problem, which is our biggest enemy. There are 20,000 jobs gone and are heading for the loss of 25,000,300,000 Icelanders. We must use every means available to reduce unemployment. Again, the figures show that ambition is no more than that, according to the criteria behind them on unemployment to decrease - notice - 1 percentage points. Despite the injections, despite all the big investments and innovations that I don't believe meet the definition of conflict, unemployment only drops by 1 percent. It's simply too small, Mr. President. This is not some traditional political offer. I don't want people to see it that way. I'm just called for an ambitious suggestion in an emergency. Now, there's a very special song to do that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u36	President. Here the government's policy for the next year is submitted, but the basis for applying that policy is discussed in the laws on public finances. There are a number of reasons why these laws are set up. It explains that there is a priority for a list of priorities, one of the key factors, so that the Council can make a decision and know why one project is more important than another. It's to take away the politics and the ballots we've experienced over and over in the past few decades and especially before elections. It belongs, for example. When it is not explained why the rampart canals were set on and given far ahead of all other projects, although many others are more important. We are quite well - off in transportation, where we have a relatively high - priority list, not in any other language. We can take a road program as a good example of how all of this would have to be in one piece. It should be a cost-and-preservation analysis to precisely address the conditions we are in now. When the valley gets tough, we can easily look at the list and see a lucrative project that we can add to the success that needs to be achieved under the circumstances. Now we need jobs that create jobs and probably lasting because we don't necessarily expect to get back the jobs that are disappearing in this decline, at least not until 2026. Government policy, however, is to try to achieve it in 223 C.E. We have three years to do so, so we have to wait until we get those jobs. But for some reason, this schedule does not reveal how to increase the number of tourists to 2 million again in 223 instead of 2026. There is no particular plan or policy. It is only given that unless there are 2 million 2023, there will be cutting and all kinds of problems instead of being able to continue on the same course. I asked the secretary of finance exactly about this lack of transparency in the past and why the laws they are not applied. The minister looked up a financial program and used examples of projects that are invented, and good and blessed, as well as the standards set for them. But that's exactly what costs and benefits are missing, and why a particular project is due, there is less to the level, less to which it is still being measured. It is very common in this financial program not even to know the results. I kill, for example. on page 24. 207 referring to the efforts of companies for research and development as a share of GDP should be increased from 1.35% 2019 to 1.6% in 2025. This is a very clear goal, and I would say that it would be very obvious to see exactly how the newly created roof would achieve this goal. That is relatively well explained. But overall, we can see, for example. not how we reach the above, that we are going to reach the top 20 states in the Global Innovation Index, as it says. There is nothing to say how we will achieve that goal unless the companies can get it for us by raising their new creations. At the same time, all evidence suggests that when we increased the roof, most of it affected few corporations, the highest the sum. In other words, there are few big companies who are going to reach the goal of the government. In view of the role of government policy, I think it should be slightly reverse, to aim for those who are beginning to take place. Rather than strengthening those who have become trapped and large in the market, we should direct their assistance to those who are starting. This is the problem I see in government policy. There is no comparison of the objectives, the actions, and the overall effects. We do not have a multi-organized administration, each minister is responsible for his own issues, sets goals and policies, etc., and all these policies and plans are not to be pulled up and set up as a whole plan on how the goals we need to achieve will be met best. It's not done. Random actions are gathered together without a complete history of why they are for progress, apart from what people think is obvious. People feel that raising the roof of innovation is going to be successful. This is correct according to all the information we have but we do not have the information whether it can be more effective than with other measures, e.g. by supporting the grass root of innovation. When we have two options side by side with the government to explain it to us and the nation why it is better to choose one option rather than the other, why better to put a lot more money on the companies that are already caught on the market than to those who are starting and creating the future organization. We live in a fast - moving world that is of immense importance to the kidneys. Those who are entering new ideas see the resolution that has been in the system and have ideas about how to do better, how to do things differently. Maintaining self - control is the quality of all systems, and it creates a measure of stability. We must encourage it from the outside, e.g. to strengthen the root of new birth, according to man's custom. It's way too short to discuss this whole thing, it's not quite a good arrangement we have here. I would like to discuss two statements that need to be explained more fully in the budget. It is claimed, on the one hand, that commercial wealth is the source of public income. Let's see if I have time for both of them, but I'll start with this. It is not necessary that employment life be the source of public income sources. It may be just as true that the public literally makes money by means of his expenses and erases money with taxes and fees. The government's expenditures and taxes are government tools that are used, not to balance the government, but to balance the economy. This is an important difference, for it changes basically how we use the government we have in the public. The state funds balance is e.g. not a problem as long as inflation is not a problem. A bigger problem than a state fund's limp would be, for example. Lack of unemployment means that they lack community activity. It means a compromise for the economy and for the economic and social systems. This is something that I feel is lacking in government policy. It's this professional policy. There are many ideas on road operations and similar activities and a lot of new projects, but there is no analysis of how it affects unemployment, since all these actions are temporary, they disappear. Transport costs decrease by 18 billion from 2021 throughout the programme period. That's where jobs disappear. What replaces work? We can't see it. We see 200 in the sector of knowledge, 800 throughout the period but nothing else, none to meet the biggest problem today, and that is unemployment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u37	Mr. President. We'll discuss a financial program that covers most of the next election period, but it's always important, reasonable, natural, and of course legal, according to the fact that there are long-term and that people are not bound by terms. In some ways, they can often hinder a clear view of the future. I think this arrangement is very good in itself. The problem of those who try to look ahead is to identify with the fundamental factors. I am concerned that some of the basic factors presented here are in many aspects of optimism. And why do I say that? That's even. because there is a great deal of weight in transport getting its weapons back quickly and safely to do so in the middle of the next year. As the situation now confronts you, both in the country and abroad, I fear - I really hope it doesn't come true but fear it - that further delay will arise in the extent that it can play the same role as the basis here assumes. Other factors related to this are general prospects for unemployment, that there will be a challenge if tourism fails. All of us want to do our best to reduce that unemployment. Then I might find out what we and many of us have been talking about, and we in the bush have been talking a little bit about, i.e. progressive implementation and projects. Maybe I don't want to make a clear distinction between that, as opposed to what the government thinks is doing, what are projects and what are practical projects. There is much that can be done that can bring us forward and be profitable investments. Of course, when the State enters the economy in a powerful way, the key and basic premise is that what is under attack is profitable. It is also very important that we do so as soon as possible. What I feel is a lack of in the plan, perhaps it will become more evident in the debates during the night. A legal committee, what can be done immediately, on practical projects as well as on practical projects that may even result from events. A project that is necessary for public management has fallen apart but could be attacked now and create employment. In this regard, I would like to point out a recent announcement from the International Cash Fund. In part, the sea has turned its back on the magazine and encourages rich countries around the world to make a lot of investments in profitable projects and projects. Contrary to what they have been told many times, they say: Now is not the time to worry too much about the debt of state funds if money - making investments are under attack because interest is now in historical minimum and therefore the ideal opportunity to cope with the problem. That's why I think that in this kind of plan, next year's budget, and even what happens this year, it's very important to take into account, and we try to seize the opportunity to make money investments and projects and thus create opportunities for the future. It may also be asked, " Is there a realistic goal in view of everything and is making it my goal to be able to take up the financial rule completely at the end of this program? ' I'm not sure it's practical. And it may not even be wise in view of the circumstances in which we live and all the uncertainty that exists. Of course, you hope it's going very well. Happily, most predictions are that the crisis will be temporary. Of course, we do not know. The fact that vaccines can be found is as well as that once they are finally found, it can be distributed quickly. In this context, e.g. It is very important to look into it, and I don't believe it, and to trust in it, in fact, that as soon as a vaccine seems to be found, it will be very effective for the nation's vaccinations in an orderly way so that human life can be restored and we can begin to receive tourists. These are things that matter. There is much about the future, innovation, and evolution, and of course, it is of great importance. I've done this many times as a talker. I think it's very wise that we speed it up as we can get financial support into the articles that are now creating employment and building for our future. That's why I think, for example. that it is not wise to start immediately to reduce tax charge on developing projects, as expected in the financial programme. I don't think that's fair. As much as it could be done, the growth in young people's interest in engineering and technology has continued, and these people will be turning themselves into society. One point may not be a big thing in the big context, but I'd like to mention it here in this traffic. I notice that funding is about to go down to the workplace fund. And what is a workforce? Yes, it is a fund intended to help a company take except on a contract. If we're growing up, which never before, people who've been working in trade, I don't know, I don't think it's a good idea that when they storm out of school and are finishing their school, the chances of getting into a contract are reduced to being able to complete their studies and make a connection with the companies. I think it's really weird. The time left is short, so deep down is impossible. I suppose that will be done when the Ministers come here and discuss their lawsuits and represent answers. This, of course, needs to be taken into consideration. I'm sure that's what they'll do. And as I also concluded my comments during a discussion on the budget, I was confident that the committee will take a good look at this, and they will be listened to all views and will be taken into account because cooperation and cooperation and consultation are the best we can do now in order to produce together as successfully as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u38	A respectable president. We are now dealing with a financial program for 2,222,2025, where many grasses are taught. I'm gonna start where I ended up standing up at the highest level. Secretary of finance because I can't see better than the girls of the Independence Party with the highest degree. Secretary of the budget is proud to be restricted. They seem very proud of the strange provision that if a person is an invalid, as well as a large part of the pensioner's pensioner's life, he should be used for further use. The explanation is that they're not supposed to get anything out of the system at the same time and others don't get any inheritance, which is absolutely ridiculous. because they're paying for it. They're letting those in the public insurance system pay for other people in social security. How pathetic can that be? How can this be defended? And how can both forward and left green jump aboard this boat? We need to ask ourselves: " Is this something like this to be done by the Tetragrammaton, trying again and again to exploit those who should least have them pay for themselves? At the same time, those whose income is good may make it totally unsatisfying, inherited or otherwise, with no need to worry about it. This financial program is very hostile to the social security system, i.e. to those who have to live in it, to microp poorer and older citizens, because there is no plan, not a plan to improve the interests of those most needed. We can only see that in the case of people of both disability and older people. An increase of 2.5% and 3% in older cities for the next five years are reported. In fact, they say so themselves on page 19. 87 of this 433 page accounts for improvement of social security increase the real value. Real value only means that these groups get at most an increase in the index value of consumer prices. It will also tell us another story if we look at the years ahead. The valley will still be harded up in this group after a year or two. If that government still reigns, Guð will help us. It has shown that this group here is wide banks in society, to increase the burden of society. We also note that in the tax system changes - better off, taxprosentan was reduced by the lowest earner, and thanks to them, they benefit and benefit everyone else - the percentage is slightly higher in the middle of the group, but the most important thing is that the government does not raise a dollar in the high - income category, not a cent that should most increase. If there were any sense, they should both increase their percentage with the highest income and also take the personal discount. In fact, those with the highest income do not need a personal discount, unlike those with the lowest income and are paying taxes now. Of course, paying taxes on a project that is not enough is completely unacceptable. This involves putting people not only in poverty but also in very poor condition. The state diagnostic and counseling centre is subject to surgery. Yet, an answer was ending, indicating that 1,193 children are waiting, of which 584 are waiting for diagnosis. We've also noticed that the BUGL staff are resigning, as I've been told, because of their poor pay. What are we doing with children who cannot protect themselves? Parents try their best, but they do not listen. No, it's not. It's supposed to be cut. These are the wide banks of this government. Unbelievable. She has also found another wide beds. She's gonna cut down the MPA service, the user-controlled personal help. Of course, those who are unable to help, are in a wheelchair, or need much help are affected. It's the wide banks. There's gonna have to be a cutout. Would it not have been better to place a slightly higher tax percentage at the highest rate of 6 billion dollars or to hit 6 billion dollars? A wealth tax that has been taken from those who are the richest and who are not aware of their speech? The bank tax? They get to keep their richest, but children need to be cut down in an analysis, with psychiatric problems, in motorized people who are in need of MPA help. It's the people who are going to cut by. I say for my part that if you look at all this, it's amazing how wrong it is. Some of the parts here may be good, I saw that they're setting up a center for a Westland replacement. Is it possible, then, to make three operations available for every single operation in a foreign country where people had to go and that they can't now? Even so, there are nearly 1,000 Icelanders waiting for replacement operations. That's a lot of ambition. There are 500 million in mental - health matters to be placed on health care. It's waiting and not everyone who wants to get in. You can go over this forever. In fact, it is remarkable how this government can afford to treat the worst. And what may be the most important thing about all of this is that this financial program reveals how it will treat this group in the future. It's up to you whether you'd let this government stay and do what it says. It says that the spiritual health of more Icelanders is bad, and more are depressed. Are we surprised? Are we surprised by this government and the fourth to rule that the spiritual health of the Icelanders has begun to give in?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u39	V.E.G. President. We're in the first round. for a review of financial programmes for the period 20211⁄22025, which discusses the development of earnings and paying or living and economics of the public. It's a political arrangement where key numbers on the survival and economy are presented, divided for the A-part of the state's funds and rural society and public companies and all of these bodies as a whole. I told them in a discussion about the next year's budget that, of course, the biggest economic uncertainty factor for 2021 was the virus itself and the consequences of its reactions in the disease - control field that we are forced to resort to and the massive disturbances that will exist in our subjects and function with the expected economic impact. This document, which looks longer than the next year's budget, shows that we are actively applying the terms of government, focusing on how we react to the situation we are dealing with. We agree, at least most of us, that it is wise in these circumstances to run a government fund with a slang angle, as is being proclaimed here by the decrease in the income of a state fund, by automatic means and by changes in which we indulge tax revenues in the effort to improve the provision capacity of homes and businesses. In addition, we look to the increase in spending on all major causes, focusing on well - being, investment, and innovation. Protecting the health system, including the health system, is important in these circumstances. Over the past few years, we have built up and increased Kingdom funds by paying off debt and by reducing the burden of interest. The debt of the state funds has decreased by about half in the past decade. It has given us economic strength and space to deal with the fluke, this tremendous financial breakdown, and reduce the impact on homes and businesses, protect the welfare and provide a powerful resistance by means of specific measures. We see now the real importance of meritability. It's a challenge to say this, a respectable president, but sometimes I feel that the word stability is beginning to involve some negative approach and that it is being mixed up in stability and chaos. Here is one fine example of the importance of meritability, which has been most rewarding in recent years, or it would have been impossible to deal quickly with this situation and to reduce growth as rapidly as it really is. At the same time, we have built a good - looking currency reserve that is useful as an anchor under these conditions that the whole world is dealing with, and of course it is a success. This is also true when financial policies and money policy fall into the same rhythms or rhythms, which have not always been the case. In other words, in these circumstances the law on public finances has proved its value in this respect and perhaps as far as we are here, which is often called the cycle of circuits or the policy - making process of the law. While that process has certainly been disturbed, in this incredible situation, we follow this policy - making process: policy, plan, budget. In September we reviewed the financial agenda, where the objectives of public finance were reviewed because of the consequences of the epidemic, such as the law allows us to be directly forced to reexamine the standards for survival and debt. There we actually put floors on our feet, which can be the most during the current year 14.5% and 13% in the next year. The floor actually shows the reality of what we are dealing with. There is a built-in space of uncertainty and a kind of roof on debt up to 64% of gross domestic product. Work on the projections in this schedule to next year, i.e. An assessment of 3.9% of economic growth is considered to take about three years to regain strength. In this situation, the balance of co - use is increased, and much of the public's investment is put in place. In all of this, however, there is great uncertainty and forecasts that depend on enormous uncertainty, thus drawing up darker scenarios. With regard to the time-to-be progress of the epidemic, no one can say, about global economic development is also uncertain, and so are the foreign transactions that we are highly dependent on. So, Mr. President, the plan reflects the need to reverse the inevitable sludge in due course. We watch that it takes us three years to achieve the previous production potential for the economy. If that happens, it will be our greatest challenge to develop or stop the debt collection that is involved in the battle that we now focus on and is absolutely convinced of the need to get us through this. There's no hesitation at the highest. Governments to support the economy and to support the economic situation of households and businesses just to prevent permanent loss of production and employment. This may be the most important and major challenge of this enormous piece of paper. A very detailed and well - equipped report is accompanied by the decree and, of course, not enough time for this brief talk to review it all but valuable for the work to take place ahead of time. It's a legal committee. It is inevitable in the long run to deal with the responsibilities of a baseline law on public finances on sustainability and stability, and we do not send the bill to future generations. What does that mean, Mr. Honorable President? If we look at sustainability, what ratio are we talking about? We are actually borrowing largely from public services over the next year and in the next year, as well as from the specific measures we need to take in an effort to protect jobs and the economics of households and businesses. In fact, there is no absolute criterion for where the ratios of debt are when we talk about sustainability. This may vary greatly between nations and peoples. by composition of products but also by a number of other factors. It should be noted, then, that the possibility of another economic crisis and how far away it may be. The higher the probability of a second trauma, the shorter it is, the less the debt of a state fund. These things must always be taken into account. We must always be on our way to cope with such traumatic situations, as we are now able to do. Of course, interest and debt control have a lot to say about this. On the basis of most standards, we are well - equipped to handle the debt we face. It is important, though, that the original balance of the state funds will soon be positive and, therefore, a respectable president, we focus on it in this financial program to get us through this and then when the economy works to stop the debt collection. [[The president calls.]] It's a responsible government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and chairman of the legal committee, Willum Þór Þórsson, for an excellent speech. Of course, as members of the Committee, we are concerned about the great lameness of the future state funds and are already and, of course, have many negative effects on national preparation. The plan also states that to reach the point of reaching the angle, there will be an increase in the income of less than 38 billion dollars. Every year in the years to come. This is essential so that the government's finances will be self-sustained again. This is an enormous amount of money, and it is by no means possible for us to increase our income each year in this way, for it does not reveal how the government envisions it. In case of a moment. A senator might consider this to be a little more specific. I think it is quite clear that we do not achieve the growth that alone would meet these requirements and that need. We are, aren't we? A senator, speaking of tax increases, a difficult cuts in order to benefit themselves? In case of a moment. A senator might consider this to be a little more specific. [[The president calls.]] There is no explanation for how the government provides for this goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u41	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For the question of how we are going to earn money in the future, the Birgir of Þórarinsson looks to the state's fund and the loss of production that is going to take place in these circumstances. You're absolutely right. There is no extensive text in a paper written about this. I don't mean to say that you can read between the lines, but it's revealed, in the action you're about to take, that we have no other way than to grow out of this crisis. That means we have to take advantage of our manufacturing factors into the future, and we are here, this government, to reduce the curse on people and businesses. I think that's right in these circumstances, it will speed us up through the crisis and it will help us raise our income. But there is no other way out of this than to grow out of it. It just means we're increasing the value of production. However, it is very clear that we have managed to increase our wages in the country, the cost of human resources. The other side is going to increase production here, so we'll grow out of the depression and increase production. We have an enormous amount of unused production equipment all over the country that has been built up around the tourism service, not just the transport core, but a highly related service. As soon as we can control the virus and start using this production factor all over again, including the human population, we'll grow out of this. We'll make it to the previous production level. This could take us about three years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u42	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Truly, I hope that we will be able to grow out of these difficult circumstances and with increasing interest. But it must be said at the present time that the possibility of being fully caught in this way is not high on my judgment. I'd like to come in with you for a second. In the years that followed, a senator's vast borrowing of the government is predictable. While it is very important that financial policies and financial policies work together, it can affect the private sector if the government is such a strong lender. It would have been desirable if there had been more discussion about the interaction between financial policy and money policy in this financial program, if possible. A senator could come into it, i.e. The government's borrowing. Then there are these changes in economic growth for the next year and questions about unemployment and the figures set out there. Now there's a darker forecast of unemployment. I'm sorry. A good chance that unemployment can become more than expected, you ask: Is that not a danger now, why? A senator, that there's a lack of expenses for unemployment on this program and on the bill? I think it could happen so that it would be over 100 billion, which is a huge drop in income for a government fund, or expenses, it's better to put it that way. [[The president calls.]] It is very important that we create our jobs, and there we in the Middle Order have wanted to put more emphasis on insurance. In case of a moment. A senator could only review these two factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u43	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator has a number of major questions. I say big because, basically, all that stuff is good. A senator came here to be the project ahead. Then I'm going to stop at my first answer that when I talk about taking us about three years to grow out of the crisis, I'm going to refer to what's going on in the Hausi's economy. It is thus appreciated in the economic forecasts, and it has been calculated to some extent into the measures established by the government and we have agreed on in the council specific measures for Covid, as well as on the benefits and unemployment insurance. I'd also like to say that we'll come out of this to some extent with a changed economy, some changed composition. After this struggle, the world will be changed. That's why we've been raising a lot of money into innovation. Then I will try to answer the question exactly how we look at the future income gathering. We have been watching innovations that may take a long time, but it will come to pass because we have made a significant increase, from 15 billion to 25 billion from 2017 to so far. There's a significant increase, over 70%. But much of this is spent by the government. You might ask yourself, " Do I need to be able to look for employment development to have such a new level of sensitivity to all projects, to be promoting secular investments, and to support my business to increase production, I'm not talking about currency production?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u44	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the budget for the 2021 families, 202025. I'd like to say, from the beginning, that up to now, the state's good standing has been new to advance into health, education, and environment, and great progress have been made in the history of this government, including the U.S. government. major transport projects For example, consider the beginning of the city line project, the twofold road from the capital area, and other factors. Above all, social infrastructure has been invested. The changes in the income tax system have also been made so that the income of those with the lowest salary will increase most. All of this is important, and this fine situation makes it possible to cope with the economic crisis that is already striking us over a pandemic crown, and, of course, the balance of the state's debt is good. Many governments have come to affairs since collapse to get us into the position we are in now, i.e. for the pandemic. All the things I mentioned here, changes in the income tax system and safeguarding social infrastructure, we are doing without any cuts in public service, and it is very important to remember and keep that in mind when we discuss both financial and financial matters in the next year. But we also know that in the next three years, we need to get a kick out of the economy and we're about to put a huge amount of money into investments and building campaigns. This is one of the most powerful economic responses I think we've ever seen, and this is necessary. It is important that both the government and the money matters go hand in hand with the public and the companies. Of course, the worst effects of this economic crisis are the rising unemployment rate. Sadly, the number of jobs has decreased very much, and I think we all agree that unemployment is one of the most damaging things that happens to individuals and communities. Hence, it is of utmost importance that there will be future work here. Despite the high state funds set for the Korean epidemic, however, it is clear that in the years to come, there will be significant differences and debt rates will rise. It is, in fact, inevitable. That is the right way, though, because it is a government fund that will take the blow the way he can, thus protecting our welfare community. Of course, this is a difficult situation for the future, one of the things being discussed in the financial agenda. There are three major challenges I think we will face as a community in the years to come. First, the nation is growing rapidly, and there will be a need for health care to grow in the future, regardless of the other fluctuations and sizes in the economy. But to survive a powerful welfare system, we need a powerful economy. Second, climate change is going to spill even more on us. Sadly, we will experience them even more in the years to come. We know that the number of furs has not been measured in the order of two years, and the environment in the seas is changing, and we need to respond, both to Iceland's achieving its goals in climate change, but then we also need as a community to prepare for the inevitable climate change, which, unfortunately, is inevitable. Because of the way our earth has been treated in recent decades, if not hundreds of years. Third, there is one result of the economic crisis of Covid. We know that this crisis affects people a lot, and although it may be possible to say that we're all in the same storm when it comes to the virus, we're not necessarily in the same position in the boat. The jobs lost in tourism are mainly from the lower part of the income level, where many immigrants serve, and unemployment is much higher among them. That is something we need to keep in mind, taking into account our economic reactions. At the same time, we need to protect our welfare systems. And not only protect them, we also need to improve and develop them, because they also need to be done in the way of a changed community. This will be a challenge for the next few years, and the official must do his part so that there will be no further or new systematic injustice here. I agree with those who have talked about the need to grow out of this crisis. But I'd like to add it to climate that we have to focus on growing out of the crisis with green marks. That's a challenge for years to come. The financial program also discusses, and I want to use my last seconds here to mention it, the economy. That is one of the things that appear in the Treaty of the Government of the Left Green, Independence Party and Front Class, i.e. for the development of economic and quality of life criteria. Such groups should help governments to monitor trends and change in society and to support policy development and decision making. I think this will be a device that will be extremely important to us into the future, knowing that we are faced with great challenges, being able to observe how different variables affect different groups, since the goal must always be to protect the prosperity and thus to benefit people from the crisis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u45	Mr. President. In a financial budget, it is seen that government funds have been used with full weight to protect jobs and create resistance. The effect of a pandemic crown virus on a government fund is expected to last longer than our hopes this summer. Just as I mentioned in my speech yesterday, during a discussion on the contribution of a budget bill in 2021, the impacts of the epidemic and its length are the largest economic uncertainty today. I think we'll have to prepare ourselves for a completely different world scene. We cannot allow ourselves to think that everything will return to normal. We must look to our strengths and opportunities, look for ways to promote our own community, prepare for another approach, another thought of how we approach public affairs. However, I don't want to talk or to conclude in a way that the plans we are living on here today are not at all built up. Of course, it is not to be taken lightly. The budget we are discussing now is responsible for looking to the fact that a debt exchange will be stopped and that soon the government will have a balance. In order to avoid such a wound that could be more important than building back a valuable creation, increasing in value, growing quickly out of this unexpected crisis, growing out of it, like a whale. The chairman of the legal committee said it was so fine earlier. By means of a budget bill for 2021 and a financial agenda is continued on the course set for the initial response to the economic impact of the epidemic, to defend the standard of living, and to provide a resistance to a new economic growth. At the beginning of the epidemic, a good State Fund has given governments the opportunity to respond vigorously to its consequences with support to people and businesses. V.E.G. The minister of finance did well in his earlier history of key options. The currently discussed financial program continues to work on the principal policies of the government during this ideal period. These include a significant growth in welfare systems, a major growth ininvestment, tax systems review, and ambitious environmental goals. Well-being, health and education are the most financing areas, or about 60% of the total financial resources. The financial program that we are considering can help you to see the evidence of this improvement and increase in recent years, as well as the addition to spending as much as possible until the next year. I'd especially like to mention campaigns in the development of nursing homes. During the financial program, it is estimated that up to 26 billion dollars are required. Go to nursing homes, and today there are many homes to be started. Social housing and insurance contributions weigh a lot, accounting for about 26% of total donations. The birth oorofs are among the focus of the term period, as well as the rise of the payoffs for the elderly, as well as the increase in building a rented house. New creations and research have been given to the government of the long government of the left movement, the green supply, the Independence Party, and the forwarding party. In this context, there is the establishment of the Bank of Investors, which is designed to promote the structure, growth, and competitiveness of a job life. In addition to the fact that companies have been more than tripled as a result of research and development since 2017. New creations, research, and fields of knowledge receive more than 20 billion dollars. During the period of the program, the same amount was over 12 billion in budgets in 2009. There will be a significant increase in the amount of information projects involved. In fact, information technology and revolution in the use of digital solutions can be said to play a key role in improving the availability of all of us into public administration and thereby increasing the practicality of government management. Environmental concerns have been focused on the entire ideal period, including measures in climate and land healing. Increased donations have then been used for extensive construction at tourist locations, as well as for increasing land management. To further the floodwaters, weighing additional contributions to the surface. The financial and financial bill shows that we are getting closer to building important defenses. Next year taxes will be 35 billion dollars. Less than they would have been if it had not been for the government's decision since 2017 on tax reform. In addition, specific measures caused by the epidemic reduce the income of the state's budget by over 17 billion dollars. next year. Thus, tax returns in 2021 to less than 52 billion dollars. Less than they would have been since 2017. This is the foundation we've put in recent years, and it's what we're following in this financial program. In recent years tax reforms have included a review of the tax system, with the aim of increasing revenues in lower income groups, improving the competitiveness of employment and working on the progress of the government's environmental objectives. Insurance costs have also been dropped during the term and become the tax burden of enterprises at 8 billion dollars. in the next year or so, there would have been a temporary reduction in the amount of insurance pay that has now been offered in connection with the biographies agreements. In the year 2021, investment contributions are high in historical context, or some 111 billion dollars. The largest individual investment project is the construction of a new hospital, but less than 12 billion are expected. a contribution to the construction of the Watch Tower Society in 2021 Direct public investment releases over 100 billion dollars. in the timeliness of the financial program we are now discussing. In particular, I would like to mention this in the previous discussion of a proposal for a financial resolution that a financial committee must at work address the impact of public projects on the tender market. The increase in funds for public projects is certainly to increase the number of jobs, employment tools, but it is also necessary to ensure that the system we have to perform a discharge would not result in a dam leading to less economic initiatives. I especially mean how we sort out tasks and how we carry out an invitation. I believe that there is a special reason for the budgetary committee to discuss both in the work of the budget and in financial programmes, how these works will be carried out. A respectable president. Finally, I want to give you a unique and special subject that is being handled both in the budget and in a financial programme, and I believe that there is a special reason to draw attention to it. In this regard, there is a great stage in the battles of those who have fought for the rise in the equation of the distribution costs of electricity in scattered regions. It is presented in a budget bill and is guaranteed over time in a financial programme. At the same time, the financial program suggests 500 million. K. to promote the distribution system of electrical energy. I could have very many words about how big and important this unique factor is to me. Without my spending time on it, I want to draw attention first to the fact that this is the fight of many senators from most votes to make port. The main challenge of the government during the financial programme for the year 20211⁄22025 has to be turned around government salaries because of the economic impact of a pandemic crown virus and the bond of debt. In such a situation, the sliding does not involve a national losses, the minister of finance said earlier this morning. I think it's right to reiterate that word. A fortune is used to strengthen the financial position of individuals and businesses in order to prevent lasting loss of valuables and jobs. The aim is to support and stimulate the economy so that out of the low space, a competitive society that is built on a powerful man - made and powerful economy will come. The first reaction the government made to the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic was to use a stable state of state funds to protect homes and businesses from the full trauma by various measures. The purpose of the first cast was to support financial status and financial resources of companies and households where possible and to bring them forward to a better economic situation, where hopes for the pandemic would not be very long. A combined limp of 2020 and 2021 could be 600 billion. Thus, in accordance with the civil law on government finance, the government's debt could increase from 28% of land production at the end of 2019 to 48% in 2021. Our goal is to stop the debt collection at more than 60% of national production. I hope we don't go that far, but we can't let anything go wrong. All financial programs and all our policy depend on our successful restoration of a good and powerful society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. He entered the slope, which, of course, is the big case with unemployment during the last few days of the discussion. A great limp on the treasure of the Kingdom has many negative effects on national preparations. I just walked in on it before then. The head of the budget board, Willum Þór Þórsson, estimated that in the planned program, there will be an increase in income of less than 38 billion a year in the coming years. I feel that this plan is missing that it is discussed in more detail. Are we watching tax increases right after election or in the years to come? What if the goal you set is not yet set? Does that mean that there will be surgery in the welfare system? What does it look like? A senator with that? Then I wanted to come in and see what I was trying to get. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson to answer earlier, but because of the lack of time, that is a huge loan from the government that lies ahead in the years to come. How can they affect private investments and loans? I want to know what's wrong. A senator agrees with me that there should have been more discussion on the interaction between financial policy and money policy in this financial program. In case of a moment. A senator might come in only if it was very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. In many respects, my answer to his first question is similar to that of what happened. The chairman of the budget board on a similar question earlier. I think it's responsible, and I know it's responsible for the government, to flaunt the targets here to stop a debt exchange, that it doesn't exceed more than 60% of national product. This means up to 40 billion dollars. surgery, if we can put it that way, in a year to get it. I have high hopes, and, of course, there's just hope, there's no certain in it, that in order not to come but to make the economy grow so powerful that it doesn't have to be taken. It is our goal and our goal to achieve it. Although I say I don't know, there's no way I can do that. We're in all of our operations to protect production equipment. All our actions aim to make it possible for us to have a powerful fight. For credit rates and for what it's worth. In his second question, a candidate mentioned the exchange of loans for money policy and personal markets to finance important or profitable projects, perhaps we will discuss it specifically on the basis of a legal committee on these two matters. Today, however, there is no evidence that growth is increasing. In general, credit rates are good today, if at any time you can talk about a good deal of loans. Growing levels are very low, so I may not have the same concerns about that part as that. A senator mentioned in his first answer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. With regard to the financial cost, we are certainly so fortunate that interest rates are low, and we have access to loans in very good terms. But there probably is no way for many years to go ahead, so there is something that needs to be very attentive. I wanted to visit only the cost of unemployment that I asked earlier, but I didn't have time to comment. Despite a considerable change in projections for future years, forecasting about unemployment is the same as in updating financial policy or 6.7%. There is a significant chance that unemployment could increase next year if economic interest becomes worse. Because there is a darker forecast on unemployment, there is a high risk that unemployment costs are underestimated and there could be over 100 billion in the next two years, an enormous amount. It only shows how important it is to promote creation, and there we in the Middle East have emphasized the need to lower the insurance fee further. It is the basis for building up companies, for them to keep their employees, to grow, and to hire more people. It must not be viewed as a temporary reduction in the amount of tax paid. That's a big misunderstanding. I wanted to ask you what. A senator may not be aware that there is a lack of unemployment and how he feels about temporarily reducing his insurance fee, even temporarily dropping it, in an effort to build more fully up the enterprises vital for this situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u49	Mr. President. Hv. A senator knows that the interest on loans has been highly economical for the state's funds during the recent years, possibly negative. After we've discussed it here at the council Hall or at what? We have no information or evidence that a change for the worse is in sight. It may change, but there's something I've been saying here, a respectable president, that we need to go over to our work on a financial committee. In my speech about yesterday's budget bill, I mentioned that 100 billion for unemployment in two years were spending a lot of money. Hv. A member of the Union suggested that I regret the money, of course not. It's part of our social security system to support people who lose their jobs. But I always feel that unemployment insurance or unemployment money is money we should look for to help increase the number of jobs, and for this, we have a well - known example from the last crisis, the way we used it. Whether it is a lack of appreciation, I cannot give a complete answer here from the platform. We will review that principle in our work at the Committee on temporary reductions in insurance fees or how we apply the insurance fee in connection with the way we promote and expand our jobs, which may be considered. However, I would also be interested in discussing a system change of how we collect the insurance, building more transparency in what it finances, and how we treat them with financing and to which side it flows. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u50	Mr. President. We'll talk about a financial plan here. I will not use my time specifically to review the Ministry's case classes but, of course, will address questions about those classes in the following discussions. It has been interesting to listen to this discussion. A changed reality and a new world picture have become heard in the Allied symposium. And then, just because of the circumstances we face, it doesn't matter how we set up the budget for the next few years and also consider that their relationship with money policy, employment development, and other major factors that can affect the way our society develops. The main objective of the budget, which is the same as shown in the financial budget, is to use a wealth of government and to use its power to protect society's foundations, welfare, education, health systems, to support the survival of people by supporting the general public and economic life in the country but also to increase their variety and resources by supporting innovation and research, thus providing additional support for the economy for the future. To achieve these goals, a government fund is allowed to collect much debt because the right way out of this deep crisis, the deepest that likely has washed us for nearly 100 years, is not to hold hands or reduce public service. With that approach, we would improve the problem. To respond in this way, the countless financial laws of public finance will be turned aside for the entire programme. I'd like to contribute some of the factors to this brief period. First of all, this is the first financial program in which we take the first step in using the hope of prosperity. The government decided to put six focus on prosperity in order to create financial programs and budgets, and it is the theme for working at every topic site. They are reviewed in a special box and they are: Mental health. I can give a few examples of how this emphasis was displayed, for example, in the mental - health program at home, a hobby for children in low - income homes, etc. Security for housing. Of course, there are factors, such as share loans, the expansive costs of electricity, and the support of the overall apartment system. Efficacy in studies and jobs. In this regard, we look especially at educational opportunities for jobseekers. Carbon-free future. I can name the menstrual economy, the carbon balance of agri-gri-environment schemes, increased contributions to the gardening agreement, the exception of eco-friendly vehicles, etc. New-born greed. It may be the largest single factor that grows most in the framed expenses. There are donations for basic research and innovation as well as new methods for supporting innovation. Better contact with the public. Then I must specifically mention all the projects we can list under Digital Iceland. These reactions are quite different from the previous crisis, and they were only discussed here yesterday. Of course, this crisis is different. It's different because we share it with the rest of the world. We are all in the same position to deal with the economic consequences of pandemic crown virus. We have also learned valuable lessons from what we did last time, especially that overcrowding and oversurgetion can directly deepen a crisis. If we just look at international counsel, then it comes as a sign of maintenance of public finance after the 2008 crisis had a negative effect on economic growth rather than on positive results. That is why we are actively using public investments. The next year an official investment of 111 billion, a 36% increase from the budget of the current year, is expected to be more than a 100% increase from the government's amount of 53 billion spent in public investments. It was, of course, in absolute historical minimum, despite the enormous cumulative need for public investments. Similarly, we do not reduce the expenditures that flow to a variety of topics, the tax growth already being proclaimed in the last financial programme, but rather, which means that the next year's budget is an increase of approximately 7.1% in the framed expenses of an important community project. In fact, as I came to see in unsubstantiated inquiries yesterday, it is a political decision to decide to maintain and defend the growth that has been in the public service, although I believe that the present pandemic has certainly shown the importance of these social systems that we have and how important it is that we have really been improving these systems. [[The president calls.]] Doing so has made us much better prepared to cope with our present difficult times, having these good systems in our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the talk. In fact, there was not much that was presented in the talk that relates to the program we are discussing right now. Well, maybe I'll come in a little bit better after that. V.E.G. A minister spoke about it and commended himself for the maintenance and protection of the growth in community carts, and I would like to ask the highest. Minister: On what basis is it possible to defend that growth? I also ask a minister if it really thinks it's practical to defend or continue the growth in the years to come and during the period planned. I think we all want to see that we can't go on as unchanged as the situation is today. In time, we need to cut down and save. Although this government isn't going to do it because there's an election coming, there's no such thing in this financial bill that we're seeing now, it's going to come into debt in it. I'd also like to ask a minister how she explained that her ministry's growth was in no way equal. In fact, one such growth in expenses has hardly been seen. What has been the increase in the number of the Ministry officials since the Supreme Court? Prime Minister received the keys to the Council of Control? That's what I'm wondering, too, tops. President, if the Minister can tell us how the cost of the government has increased dramatically. Today, he is nearly 700 million, but four years ago, there were 360 million. The number of tasks has not increased greatly. One group of paintings moved into the Ministry, which was in fact there, the equality. Other lawsuits came out of it. Surely a minister would have to tell us how this tremendous growth in the expenses she has already made in the Ministry of the Presidency at a time when we cannot really afford to be in such a situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u52	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is here to discuss this reaction, i.e. To protect our systems, which I made up of a talker in my speech. I went over it in her, but I'm going to do it a little detail right now. As we examine the reactions we used here after the 2008 collapse, the public suffered a massive resection. A senator mentions. Of course, our situation back then was quite different, since we were basically the first state to cope with the bank crisis that was then coming upon, and it really struck considerably harder and became much deeper in Iceland than in most other countries, so like a dog. A senator well remembers that there were not many options at that time and that of access to loans that were limited. Hv. A senator now calls what we stand in front of an election plan. I'm asking why. Senator: Does he believe that elections are currently in all European countries? If he looks at European and west response to this epidemic, most of the reactions are one way. Certain lessons have been learned, and it has been seen that there is a wrong reaction at this point in performing unnecessary cuts to important systems, health systems, education systems, and so forth. This will deepen the crisis, so the response has just been to use the financial resources to reduce the negative effects of the crisis. These governments are not doing because elections are ahead. These are governments doing it because it's a reasonable economic reaction. And why are we doing this? Because we trust that the Icelandic economy is strong that we can grow out of this crisis. I don't believe that I and what. A senator would agree that the Icelandic economy is a solid foundation. Instead of going through some crazy epidemic procedures, we say: "We're going to protect our well - being, our education and our health system, and we're going to grow out of this crisis and rely on the Icelandic economy to stand so strong that we'll be able to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u53	V.E.G. President. Yeah, let's just call it an election plan. I don't think I did, however, I spoke of the law being so that it would be clear that the election was coming. Money is not being handled as it is now laid down. V.E.G. Prime Minister gives us the support and incision that had to be performed in 2008 and in 2009. Yes, something had to be done with them. Since then, the Ministers of the government have striven to talk about the fact that we are facing the deepest crisis in Iceland, that we have never seen anything like it. What's to be done? Are they really going to argue here that by the same methods that this government is preaching today - to only draw money from a government fund rather than try to promote our economic life - we can grow out of the crisis and conditions we are living in right now? It's not like that, chief. Prime Minister. We must watch to reduce taxes, make it easy for companies to grow and cancel insurance so that companies can increase employees and add to them. It's not on the agenda for this government. No, there are other things, so we must ask the highest. Prime Minister how she envisions to meet challenges ahead of her Kingdom. It is already clear that the plans we have for economic growth are based on a very weak foundation. Even black times have been mentioned as being ahead of us as to unemployment and so forth. It is not to increase our optimism that this government can do anything to raise the country and continue to do so. Therefore, we must ask the minister how she provides the means to use the Kingdom meeting to get the economy started. This will not be done by placing more than one billion on some project that does not increase the number of employees in private companies. This is not done by expanding the treasure as it has been. V.E.G. A minister refused to answer the question about all this expansion in the Ministry of Presidency under her control and massive expenses. By increasing the number of assistants to the prime minister, a powerful business life is not possible. It doesn't happen that way. Under the leadership of prime , Katrín, the daughter of Jacob, the crew has been blown out, and this calls for action. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u54	Mr. President. I think the Central Party's ideas of action over the epidemic are completely unrealistic. Should the insurance be canceled? What income, then, should be dependent on unemployment insurance and baby vacations? Or just cut it down? The middle class has to answer when they come up here and talk about canceling the insurance, how exactly to finance the expenses that are funded by those tax institutions. Or should the searchers and jobless people just be put out on gods and filled? I can't believe it could be part of the Middle Party application program in this case. Hv. A senator spoke of growth in the expenses of the Ministry of Presidency. Then I'll go over it. Since 2013 a certain number of assistants have been expected by the Council of Government since 2013. That law has not been changed and has not gone beyond that law. The jury of equality was not in the Ministry of Presidency. That's not true. The equal cases were transferred from the Department of Social Affairs to the Ministry of Presidency by Presidential decision. Of course, they increased the number of employees in the Presidency Department. No one needs to be surprised and has anything to do with this group of litigators in the Board of Directors and is now working against all the departments. But it is true that expenses have increased, and this is primarily due to new constructions at the Management Board. At least I know what I'm thinking. The head of the Central Party for that construction. I'm not going out on a detailed discussion about her, and it can be debated whether the right time to do so is the right thing to do. I would say that economics are just the right time to take on such public action, to build up the Board of Directors. We can have differing views about what it is like. I have no doubt that this will be more economical for a longer time, since the Ministry is now renting housing in the central city of Reykjavík instead of being in its own. [[The president calls.]] For a long time, just like I'm supporting the General Building, I think it'll be more practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u55	Mr. President. V.E.G. Prime Minister asks why. The members of the Central Party, whether to leave the unemployed out in God's hands or not. It seems to me in the budget bill that it should. She also speaks of this crisis as being different from the last one without ever realizing it. But you're right. This is reflected in historical unemployment and bites of the worst - income groups while at work and even at a high - income level there is no economic impact on the epidemic and may even increase the cost of money with less interest. On the other hand, tens of thousands of people who are now missing their jobs are looking in the dark. Young people, women, and immigrants are most inclined to do so. The younger women's unemployment is three times the older and unemployment rate for women more than the unemployment rate for men. This needs to be treated so that inequities do not increase dramatically. It was, therefore, very peculiar to the highest degree. The prime minister did not mention the characteristic of this crisis, which is very uneven. I don't see enough plans on the budget or financial programs to deal with it. So I simply ask, "I feel the highest." The prime minister really does not need more drastic employment measures, especially for these groups, especially since the financial bill is expected to reduce only 1 percent in the next year? And second, can it, in few words, name a key argument against temporarily raising basic employment benefits at least, so that people can support themselves and their families when they lose their jobs, just as long as this plague goes on?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u56	Mr. President. I don't know why. A senator was not listening when I considered why this crisis was different from the last one. Then I can just go back over it if he missed that part of my talk earlier. As noted there, this crisis differs from that of all of us. The entire world faces a crisis. This, of course, affects the response to the crisis because it has the potential to make a difference in the amount of loans. Like what? A senator knew this was not a simple 2008 issue when our government soon succeeded. It even shaped it. Of course, the reaction to that crisis. Then, in September 2008, growth rate of 18% was never lower in the republican history, and this reflects the success of money policy. I've noticed that. Congress members have called for us to talk more and to put in the context of money policy and government policy that is so important that we work together, and there is a difference between this crisis. Hv. A senator mentioned the equation and that it was odd for me not to have mentioned it, but in fact, when we consider their history, I mentioned it in my perpetuity that, as we examine their history, an increasing number of patients. Hv. A senator well knows what I said, since it is our special task to examine how we can prevent this pandemic from leading to an increased inequity in Iceland. There's a lot of ways to do that. I can mention some of the things we've been doing, changes in tax systems, longer maternity, which are also equal in nature, increased emphasis on prosperity that I went over to a detailed language in my speech. There are a wide variety of activities in budget and financial programs that can support it and counteract increasing inequities. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to discuss some more unemployment insurance in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u57	Mr. President. Yeah, I think it's right to the highest. Prime Minister answers the exact question of what evidence is there against raising unemployment improvements at least temporarily in these circumstances. It's true that the whole world is facing this problem, but it's part of the world that is facing more trouble, and so is Iceland. It's just that wealthy people and people who are falling into unemployment need to face much of this crisis during all 2008. I find it unusual that a government with prime prime prime prime prime minister does not insist on raising unemployment benefits or securing pension recipients comparable to those in the biographies agreements but at the same time can promote a decrease in capital gain taxation on the most wealthy people, provide companies for shipping costs, and reduce the price of fishing. Both the highest. Prime Ministers and financial ministers have concluded that there was a mistake in the legal process at the beginning of September, where people landed between a ship and a dock that fell out of income - related unemployment benefits on August 31, 2011. How are you planning to go to the top? Will the prime minister react to this mistake? Will people be improved by the loss, or will they think that they will reach even greater numbers again? It will be improved by all 12,000 who are now operating on basic employment benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u58	Mr. President. Thanks again. A senator before, and there's a lot I'd like to come in on. I'm gonna start with the jobseekers. First of all, the extension of income-related improvements is the highest. Minister of Social Affairs to review that matter. I believe it must be examined in particular how this law appeared to those who fell, as I have said, between ships and docks, and that's in the poll at the highest. Minister of Social Affairs. Hv. A senator also mentioned unemployment counts, so I did not get exactly how he put it, but it is certainly higher among women than men in all the country, except in the capital area where it is more among men than women. The overall non-employment is now 9.3% if we take the most recent commercial statistics. Of course, in the first place, a huge subject is how we will create more jobs. We certainly do this by public investments. I realize that most of these traditional investments tend to create man - made jobs, and that's why I'm so concerned that we're defending our public service. It is a major political, but it is also a sexual operation, for much of it is active in women's classes. We faced very difficult decisions in 2009, 2010, and I have to say that I am very happy that we have made this decision now because I think it will matter a lot over time. Then I just want to say it, because. A senator asks about a rising unemployment improvement, and I've answered him before, that we'll have to go over it. Hv. A senator knows well that we increased these benefits of 2018. Stepping was a very important step. So after that, I'm very happy to think that it was done because otherwise they would have lasted for about one day. 235,000 k., if I know the right thing, but they hadn't gone up for a very long time. I believe that, of course, we will need to review this system as a whole, as well as the interaction of part-works, income connections, and so on when we see the trend further. [[The president calls.]] Let me say, of course, that one would have wanted us to be in another place in this epidemic when it comes to the number of people who have been infected. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it seems to me that this is going to be a little longer than we had planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u59	The president reminds us of a speech period of two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u60	President. Public financial planning is only more beneficial now than the past few years, with the introduction of financial goals for prosperity. First steps are good, but several things might be added. You might, for example. have a summary of every topic range for each level of prosperity so that the overall impact and cost can be seen in order to obtain some context. The financial program discusses the prosperity focus of the government, which is particularly spiritual health, housing security, learning and working, non-carbon future, innovation growth, and better communication with the general public. It's fine, it's fine, it's fine. But I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on the final focus, better communication with the common people. I'll take them to Jón Ólafsson's statement about the Constitution bill. Prime Minister, with permission of the president: ▪ There is no systematic way of building on the basis of the consultation, where its results are in line with the root series, and no attempt is made to explain the variation when the board is started other than the conference indicates that the public will support it. - Jón also says: "The ultimate purpose seems to justify and persuade people to accept a clean and complete exercise of power; that political parties at the Council can make changes in constitution as they seem, despite the fact that over two-thirds of the voters have already accepted the material basis for a new constitution announced in the name of the Council. This comes from the head of a task force called the Prime Minister on political trust. So I ask: Is it enough to say that if the results are not acceptable to the government, it is enough to say that we want better contact with the public but to do nothing with them?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of this question, not directly related to a financial program, but to the bill in the Council of the Management Board's consultations on Presidential and Commission. [[...better communication. That's what it says.]] - I listened to what I said. A senator doesn't have to yell in front of him, but he has a bill set up in the board's consultations about the President and Commission. That bill has not been shown here at the council, as it were. A senator mentions. That's what we're talking about. She is for comments from people. Don't I just think that's a good thing? Yeah. Are these comments being processed? Yeah. Is there no open discussion about open communication? Yeah. Will these comments appear in a new bill when it arrives at the council? I expect so. So is there a problem? I don't think so. You see, I think if we want and hurt something by improving our communication with the public, we'll also have to endure the fact that our communications are open, that they're transparent, that we put a bill on our consultations, that they get critical, that we react to it. I don't think it's a big deal. Do I feel that this is a problem with improved communication with the public? No, I just think it's a good thing. That's how I've won all my bills. I listen to talks, take note of what is presented, both in the consultation of the Board of Directors and at Congress. Sometimes you bring bills in here that you don't have any comments. Then the council makes significant comments, and we're working on it. That's what this is about. I don't see that there's a problem with being put in a review to a bill about the President and Pronunciation. I think it's positive, and I think it rhymes with the way we're changing our tactics, like we did to form when we opened the consultation puzzle that was, of course, opened in this ideal period and is very, very in the spirit of the present government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u62	President. I would like to start by referring to page 18. A financial program of 88 states that by the year 2022, a temporary contribution is made to the work of the Constitution committee. Most ministers set up a five - year financial program that will continue their work. The work of prime ministers for the Constitution was to include two terms, but financial support is not expected to complete that period. Maybe I'd like an explanation. So on page 18. 156 reviews the reduction of funding for the Athlellium surveillance agencies. The General has two surveillance agencies, a State Accounting and a General agent. I would like to ask: Would it pay itself to reduce the budget for Public Review, which is under the supervision of the government's budget, especially during times when you have increased activity in many areas, as the prime minister has talked about, and we have to make a big deal of money? Isn't that what it pays to ensure that State Review is under control? Then there's the other thing, which is even more important than money. The U.S. government agent is responsible for the rights of the citizens. That's what he's supposed to do. In these days, when we are going for the first time to the point where governments take on enormous authority to limit civil rights to Covid, it is particularly important to make sure that the World Council's agent has enough money to care for him. It is involved here on both the initiative studies and also the OPAAT agent's OPC, which is under the United Nations Convention on torture, etc., aimed at institutions and households where free-minded individuals are staying. This has to be done right in these days. We must not lose our rights protection in Covid's time. I'd like to ask Prime Minister if it's not completely clear, if it's a misunderstanding, that it will be added, at any rate, that it will be added to the U.S. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this to my attention. I'm just going to admit that as for the General, I'm not entirely at home in the plan, because it's based, of course, on the Generals' own plan. So I think it's important that the Council Presidency Committee of the Council review this program, whether she values it adequately. I agree completely with what. A member of the council that both of these surveillance agencies are very important. They have, in fact, had increased responsibility over the years, both the State Accounting and the Athlelah's agent, so I think it would be best for a prime committee to cross it. For the Constitution work, it was submitted at the beginning of this terms. My vision of it was that this total review would be completed in two terms. The budget for that work is not expected in the next term, just because I think it's time for us to figure out how we're going to complete the stages we made during this first term. Will the Council succeed and, however it may, accept or reject any changes that will be submitted to a constitution? Will there be a basis for continuing, or must we reevaluate the position of this project, and how we continue to do so? The biggest money went, including. to enable a community conference in a reasoning survey that was considered by me to be a very successful project and gave us a lot of material on how we want to see certain aspects of the board. Of course, not all factors were involved, but there is something that I would like to see newer in policy development and not just in connection with administrative issues but in other matters that might be involved in such public conspiracy. But I think it might be a bit of a strain on how we continue this assignment during the coming terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u64	Mr. President. I want to talk about equality. There is much to say about the success of equality that the lawgiver is aware of decisions, policies, and laws that are common and appear to be sex shareless can, in effect, have a very different effect on the sexes. This is what we've seen in workforce action. This has been seen in the action we use to counteract sexual violence. This has much to say about building schools because we see that the needs of boys and girls are not always the same. What a blessing such knowledge is that we have a great deal of research and activity! Knowledge of nature and the consequences of violence has increased tremendously, high levels of analysis exist in the position of the sexes in the work market, school status of boys, and so on. And this is the standard in many of the operating systems. Already, great and good analyses and policy work have been done for many long periods of time. The knowledge of society and infrastructure is good. Data, numbers and plans are available. I wanted to mention this in the context of whether we're not going to the place where we're going to use the good work, that the next step must be taken, and the good work that has already been done. We have, for example. In terms of equality, and now we need to take the next steps. In this context, I am referring to this: I am putting a question mark on a certain ◯trendt's government, which has been setting up constantly more groups that continue to speak and identify the situation. A recent inquiry from the Cradle sheds light on this tendency. In March a number of committees and groups who had been appointed during the current ideal period were answered. The prime minister appointed 37, Secretary of finance 14 and so on. In total, these were 248 committees at work during the election season on the committees that had already been formed. [[The president calls.]] And others have been formed since March. So there could be over 300 committees working today. [[The president calls.]] The question, then, is whether there is a real need for a new government committee of over 250 to 300. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And when the secretary of finance speaks of a bloody waste in the public system whether he is referring to the cost. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u65	Again, the president reminds us that there are two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I don't know exactly what the connection is to equal matters. I'll just go over a few groups and why we're making groups. Yes, I did. I ordered to form a committee on the freedom of information and expression. What was the result? New information laws, protection of informants, clear rules for the freedom of expression by public employees. It was a group - did he earn his money? Yeah, definitely. I set up a group of measures that ran through every infrastructure in the country in terms of electrical and communications security. That group presented a huge report with enormously large proposals for the quickness of projects that make it possible for us to speed up ground cables, we're speeding down avalanches, we're revising the design and organization of the institutions of electrical and communications security, we're revising the role of public defenses. This group has completed its work. Did he earn his money? Yeah, I think so. Would anyone like to get back to what we had here in the storm of December? I don't think so. I set up a team to shape a policy on the fourth industrial revolution that listed the work that had to be done. There are several of them. And I'm even about to appoint a new group that comes from molding a policy that needs to be developed for an Icelandic community. What's that coming back to you? Yes, it does. into the target science and innovation program, which aims to improve the production of Icelandic society to cope with technological changes. Did this group earn their money? Yeah, I'd say so. Because of what? A senator began to talk about equality now, I'm with a group that's just supposed to deal with a sex - exchange labour market, a problem that has been present for decades, or a problem if we look at it like that, at least Subject. Do I believe that a conversation between different people will come to pass? Yes, I do. I can go on. A host on housing grew into legal adjustments, both in humanitarian laws that we are about to discuss this summer, the legal status of tenants, and the share loans. [[The president calls.]] This group earned their pay. [[The president calls.]] Why are we ordering these groups? [[The president calls.]] Yes, it is to advance progress in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u67	Thank you very much. The prime minister for the answers and the vision in which there is no problem with the government's two - and - a - half - hour commission on the top of all the committees that are already active. Of course, the point is not that, and it should, of course, be obvious, that the committee is not entitled to produce results - this may be the black/white talk in this hall where people are getting tired - but whether it should be considered only on the basis of evolution. In this regard, it is interesting to learn that the number of these groups is being increased. V.E.G. A minister talks about the labour market and, of course, it also shows in a financial programme that the integration of sex and equality issues with all policy policies is being achieved. This is a positive and important factor because it has a lot of success in equality to say that the lawgiver is aware of the difference between sex and general practice. In this context, I'd like to express a lot of concern about specific points in the highest bill. Prime Minister to legalize the administration of equality. In spring, I'd like to mean that we've experienced a certain setback in the equal struggle when the Minister of Education decided to lead a woman to a court of justice who had sought the Commission of Equal Opportunities and found that she was violated an equal law in office. As is known, the minister of education was reacting to the woman's stand for judgment. The State of England certainly has a legal right to do so. It's a warrant, it doesn't have to be used, and it hasn't been used very much, certainly because it hasn't been smoldering political to do that. I wondered, " Is this equal to a drug that feminist political force agree with that I think that when you look at the integration thing, it's a sex-involved law that will take on women much rather than men, simply because it has more to do with women in a labour market? ' Women who consult the Committee and go to it, although they should also take the commission together, the legislation will have a more dramatic effect on women than men and on the suppression of sexual equality in the labour market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would say: This is a legal way for governments, but feminist is hardly at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u68	Mr. President. I just think it's very important to answer what's in my head and that's why I've opened the answer right up. A senator was here quoting about these 37 groups. And because of what? A senator came up here in the second answer, saying that not all of these groups are operating at the Council of Control, I can be happy. A member of the council, with most of these groups completed their work and produced the results that I went over here. And because we're discussing equality, I would like to mention this in particular that some of the groups in this response are groups that have been preparing expert committees who were ordered to prepare bills for children with atypical gender characteristics. The primes have been distributed at the General Assembly, and I really hope the Council will address them. There are also groups that have just been working on a review of equality scale. And because of what? A senator makes them specific to the subject here, that I suggest a change in the terms of the judicial committee of equality, i.e. I believe it will be better if there is a legal possibility that an invalid ruling is not only to an individual but also to the committee. In fact, the tradition of the Icelandic government to 1997 was that the committees were actually chosen, according to what I have been told of by the law - taught people. I believe this will be a very important law to support gender equality law. I also hope to get a good discussion and result in progress in the fields of gender equality, which has also been distributed here at the council. I'm sure we will. A senator deeply agrees that there is a great need for reform in that language as well as in others. During the last assembly, a very important predestination program was adopted. There will be one of the biggest projects now ahead of us to work on the follow-up and its implementation. [[The president calls.]] It's about prevention of sexual violence and harassment, which I believe, in fact, the only major lesion in Iceland when it comes to sex equality. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. As shown by the Supreme Court, the prime minister is whether she feels that it is financial equality. The secretary of finance, and he thought it perfectly normal, that the financial program expected five billion dollars. But at the same time, if it were a pension slave, an invalid, or an older citizen who received this inheritance, would it be impaired by a dollar or a penny? It's a state-of-the-art explanation. Thus, a minister of amazing equality was that he thought it was natural that it was this way because it held up in the system as if it were today. As a result, he finds it normal for the worst to sustain the system, but those who have the best of it are allowed to maintain such interest without loss. Does it seem natural that it also counts if I get a large donation, that it would be okay and it would be no impairment, but if an invalid was given a gift, say monthly, maybe half of that alimony? Is it not time for us to find some basis, so that those in such a situation, whether older or older citizens, or others, have some reserve, can save themselves and their children because of an increase in cost or some other situation, that not everything is as dramatic as it is, no matter what it is?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up this discussion about the failings that we've had before, of course, here. I'd like to reiterate what I said, perhaps on a shorter case, yesterday. It is clear that at the beginning of this election period, work was started with the microenergy pension system. History is the work that was completed here in 2016 when it comes to the part of social security facing the elderly. Of course, it approved very much changes in 2016 that would result in simplifying the system to reduce impairment, but there are certainly impairments. Then it could be said that as soon as they were accepted, there was a considerable debate about the decrease on that side, with older citizens, and the result of this discussion was that we increased income markets for employment, while there is still a relatively low share of pensions and capital income. Then, work on top of the highest level was started. Social Affairs Minister on the micro-energy pension system and the head of the operating group, as well as on the other hand. A senator sat in, returned for about a year ago. 1 year and six months. I have to say, of course, that I would have chosen that this group of workers had completed more fully because when you look at the spread of income to those who receive disability, it's obviously a completely cross-reacted impairment between reform groups that make this system less productive and that it can become unfair for those who rely on it. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that we need a review of this system. [[The president calls.]] This was supposed to be for a certain amount of money, and I'm going to find out a little more about it afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u71	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. In many ways, I think we agree. We've already set a cash market for employment, but I believe these people also need some kind of reserve. If they get money somewhere, there must also be a holiday goal, so there's something to be spent. People are about to get their money, but they don't realize that a year later they're going to get damaged. This money is used desperately, even to buy a school set for their children, or clothing, or just to get rid of debt, but it goes back a year later in the form of a decrease. It must tell us that this is very unfair and is a terrible situation. Something else I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister to whom health care is concerned. Does she feel that it is enough to put 540 million in a mental - health emergency, while at the same time cutting down from a field of diagnostics, where children are being diagnosed with mental disorders and other problems that afflict a large number of children, causing them to become upset and may be harassed? Is it normal to be required? Don't you think you'll make sure that it's not cut down but added?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u72	Mr. President. So I would like to finish what I wanted to say before about the social security system, I'd like to say that at the beginning of this terms, there were 4 billion earmarked for changes and 2.9 billion spent here by the General Assembly for the recommendation of Social Affairs to reduce the breakdown of disability pensioners. Still, the remainder of the matter remains unmoved, so I mention it. But I think it's totally important that we get into having the conversation about the suggestions on the table of the staff as we speak. A senator sat in. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must agree with me on the fact that we must approach this system, i.e. Watching the system like it's built up. We agree that it is omnipotent. We agree that it is complicated in implementation, and then we must simply be able to take over the debate at the council on how we want to see the microenergy pension system built up. We must start working on the proposals of the staff. When it comes to mental - health matters, they speak harshly. A senator of 540 million for this year's special purpose. Of course, there is no increase in mental health during the term. She's been a lot bigger. It's been a very special priority. Health Ministers to promote mental health, and the need is greater in that area. I count, because of what. One senator expressed concern about this, that there has been a major build - up projection with a vast increase in access to, including, the one in the United States and the other. Psychological services throughout the country but also in the services of psychiatrists. Of course, it takes time to build this up, but I believe we've been on the right track. This rhymes perfectly with the emphasis we place on financial prosperity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u73	V.E.G. President. As financial and economic ministers, I am responsible for three sectors, as well as for the Ministry to share five others. I'm going to give a special focus in my case at topic level 5, but the subject areas that are strongly involved in the custody of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs are exactly the subject of 5, which is the tax, property, financial and financial resources, the legal level 33, the financial expenses, the responsibilities and pension debt, and the legal domain of 34, general financial reserves, and the specific financial resources. In particular, tax, property and finance. The responsible management of government funds and property is important in supporting effective and productive services and thus improving the standard of living in Iceland. The main objective of the topic area is that the government's tax, property and financial management are consistent, transparent, efficient and efficient. The main focus is to a better and more efficient public service, which is reflected in both the policy and the emphasis of the seminary and the financial resources. First, there is an emphasis on increasing digital services in the public and company and the plan is that in the coming years Iceland will be joined by the world's leading nations in the digital public service. With increased emphasis on public digital services, there is an opportunity for future economic growth as a result of operating economy, high time savings in society, and positive environmental impacts. At the same time, information systems and the development of technology through the state will be under way. The value of digital services is part of the government's investment campaign and is expected to be additional investments of up to 1.5 billion from the next year in order to expand the production of the ministry, also to renew the information technology infrastructure, which is the basis for increasing the efficiency of public service. Second, there is increased trust and an improvement in taxation by the use of surveillance, research, and protection against money fraud and tax collections. There are 150 million additional donations in the budget of financial resources, tax research, and tax control work. In addition, there are estimated to be a 100 million increase in IRS in the years 2022 and 223 in this strategy, but an increase in IRS is expected to increase its effectiveness over the years and can be seen as well. have a positive effect on overall survival. Third, the more targeted use of government property and increased investment in social infrastructure. It is being accomplished that the state can make its economic account practical so that all government property will be used in the best way possible. An important aspect of this is to add perspective and transparency to the government's property. It is also important to improve planning for long-term investment projects, thus creating a better basis for priorities. As we have seen, the current economic situation calls for investments that can be reprobated to stimulate the economy at a time when it is most needed. It is aided in the maintenance and restoration of the State's housing, including at health institutions, police and district reforms and high school, and is expected to include 1.6 billion additional investments in such projects next year, and another million again in 2022. Other emphasis on the topic area is developing a future policy on sustainable taxation of vehicles with special emphasis on the taxation of driving equipment and technical implementation of such taxation. The aims of work include: to speed up energy exchange by increasing the share of renewable energy in transport and reducing emissions as well as ensuring continued tax revenues of the state's budget in view of tax degradation due to increased electrical and fuel use. It is a huge case on its own and one of the larger issues we are working on in this region, an exciting opportunity to transform Iceland, to make it more technical and green, and to achieve economic goals while moving the energy sources that drive transport around the country. I have to stop here to trace these main priorities, and we have an opportunity to go to another area according to the Congress's interest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u74	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. What I wanted to come in to is exactly what I wanted to do. A minister was discussing, i.e. IRS and IRS divorced. We took that conversation only yesterday, but I would have wanted her to be a little deeper, about the tax requirements that are over 17 billion. There's an increase of several hundred million, I think, from the previous year. Should it not be part of this financial program to try to overcome it? These are enormously high amounts of money, and they cannot all be bankrupt. And isn't there something wrong in the system if there's a way to go bankrupt with the various companies and individuals for this enormous amount of money? I would've wanted a little deeper discussion from the top. Minister on this matter. Then I'd like to ask him a little about clearance to add money to Farice, on page 8. 17 on the budget bill. I guess that's a lot of money. How's the top? A minister sees that it will be financed? Then I cut to the end that they're buying ambassadors' houses or offices in Washington, London and New York, expecting to sell property back, if ever. A minister could go over it. Then I noticed that it's all about to go to the state's fund to take over Harpa, business, debt, and everything that comes with it. Is that not considerable money? If the highest. A minister would review that and all that goes with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u75	A respectable president. We have been working this way that we have estimated taxes on the other side of the income, while we are expected to have lost tax requirements that work against them. It's a bit of a phrase in itself, but it's more beneficial than taking off the scripts and not separating them. I think it is beneficial to look specifically at what we have to cancel at any given time of our tax returns. I suppose it is possible to say that the best way to limit the need for subsidies of taxes is to try to ensure the best public environment of an enterprise, to maintain economic stability on the land. Then I'll think the need for copies of taxes is to be kept to a minimum. However, when we go through the financial depth we are in right now, I think we need to assume that not everyone will reach the country after the payoff, and this can lead to some form of the tax requirements being canceled. In fact, it may be a matter of taking a closer look in historical context, but it refers to estimated tax returns after stress and then to times when due to bankruptcy. For Farice, we're thinking of increasing the stock market to secure the company's financial status in order to finance sea cables. It is quite an investment, but bottom research in the ocean has been in progress and will continue before the next step can be taken. I'll be able to move on to the scene with Darp and about foreign property below.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u76	Mr. President. I'd like to boast first of all. The secretary of finance for the wide vision he shows by finally accepting the proposal of our Middle Classes, whom we have made three times, to raise the tax research costs and to the tax taxation by 250 million, and therefore it should be celebrated. V.E.G. The secretary of finance correctly pointed out that the provision of funds in this way is likely to increase the income of the state because of the improvement of the fund. Actually, I didn't see the bill, and the highest. A minister corrected me that the tax investigator was receiving some given amount, but it was marked by the tax investigator. But what is well done deserves respect. Then again, Mr President, I want to bring up customs issues. I didn't see the review of a memo, I know it called after what I don't think has come about the dislocation on it. But it is clear that there is a great need for the customs department, especially for the renewal of equipment. We Central Classes have moved here, probably for two to three years, suggestions on equipment necessary for customs monitoring to carry out their work on the border and to increase national safety in all ways. Although tourists do not have much to do with the work of customs, much more is involved than in tourists. The project also has to do with importing all goods, importing small packages and shipments. I draw attention to the fact that despite a small flight this spring, there was still plenty of drugs on the market here in Iceland that somehow made their way into the country. So I have to ask the highest. Minister if he intends to improve the interests of customs in this bill and by means of extra proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u77	A respectable president. We've made it a point to be in good relations with all of the department's key agencies, including the Bureau's headquarters. you have need of money. We've listened to our pleas for additional documents where appropriate, within the range of our resources. This is true of the taxpayer who has increased funding in order to be even more successful. But the same is true of the tax and customs service that both sides depend on the most efficient and efficient use of technology, that we have the right diagnostic tools, e.g. to see outlaws. Of course, the sights are strange and raises reason to dig deeper and take things into consideration, and international cooperation is also of enormous importance. It is particularly important to ask whether I intend to contribute additional funds or funds to these provisions. I'm here measuring for the bill as it has been built in my Ministry, and we have money to play within a fixed frame. At this point, we do not assume there will be additional proposals. But I completely agree with it. When a senator highlights the importance of the work being done by customs, he does so by stressing the importance of the customs work. Not only can it be obvious because of the revenues that result from this activity but it is also possible to be careful that the laws and regulations are followed, including the international agreements that we are involved in. The key and effective management of customs is in the context of equal competition between those serving here and other countries and is of utmost importance to protect national production and services as well as other factors listed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u78	Mr. President. Deloitte's marine database was introduced on the 2020 fishing road, held on September 16, U.S.A. The database contains information from 89% of the marine export sector, while the funds are calculated to reflect all of them. In all, companies paid off interest at 10.3 billion dollars. last year. Since 2010 it has paid 103.2 billion. to the owners for interest. The employment of the fishing industry has improved by 479.2 billion. ... froma collapse. The database reports that the income of the fishing industry has increased by 33 billion dollars. between the year and the year 280 billion. last year. They've never been so great before. The cost of decapitation, capital expenditure, and taxes was 73 billion. and increased by 20 billion dollars. last year. The final profit was 43 billion. in 2019 C.E. True, we received higher tax revenues in the government fund with a higher income, but income tax is not a resource tax. At the same time, fishing cost dropped considerably between the years, with 6.6 billion dollars. Four thousand million dollars. less than they were in the year. And still lower hunting costs. They're estimated to be 4.65 billion. in 2021. It's under the roof. Minister of the price of hunting fees acceptable? In difficult times, would it not be possible to increase the rate of fishing? Society now has as never before to rely on sectoral problems caused by the crown virus.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u79	A respectable president. These are good numbers for the survival of the fishing grounds that Deloitte was publishing and expecting it to return to higher fishing costs. These figures, however, must be put in the proper context. When men speak e.g. the ultimate profit of making up to 40 billion cubic feet is to ask: What is the financial commitment? What is the total amount of money that is involved in making this particular profit? How much money have men invested in business, in ships, in tools, in factories, and in the purchase of sources in exchange for this profit? What has it since returned to the community through pay and pay - related fees, pension rights, direct taxes and indirect taxes, services, businesses, etc.? What's the benefit of society in general because it works well in a fishing field? I'm gonna be very clear when you ask me if there's no way that's possible. A senator asks here. In fact, I find this very amazing question to be: Is it not because of the difficult state's situation to raise the shapes of the seabed? This is kind of the problem with the Conspiracy and the discussion of the fishing road, there is no prince. The amount of expenses placed on the seabed should be flung along the surface of the Kingdom Fund. There's no prince's tap. Why doesn't the United States suggest that we only raise the income tax in general at all companies because of the poor state's position? Why not? What happened to the prince's fingers that touched the fact that men were paying for access to a resource? What happened to this? Is it now that we need money for the government, and then we just go into this business and make our income? The answer is no, when asked if it's not now a good time to raise a curse because the state is going bad. [[The president calls.]] No. We are to base on just a fair curse on this business, such as everybody else, and it is especially important when we are in a financial crisis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u80	Mr. President. I can't say I was surprised by the minister's answer. But I think we should just pay a higher percentage for access to the resource that's used in this way. As we look at the numbers I listed in my first speech, I am amazed at this position. The Minister. In my opinion, we are actually handing the fishing companies so well supported from a government fund with far too little fishing costs. But otherwise. What's the bottom line? A secretary for the development of pension payments compared with the development of minimum wage insurance according to the biographer agreement? The difference between the social insurance paid, whether to the elderly or to the poor, and the minimum wage insurance per the biographies agreement, is nearly 80,000 dollars per year. This will be 86,000 K by month, and it will be 86,000. per month, with a 3.6% increase in social security payments as assessed by the budget and the increase in minimum wage insurance according to the biographer contract. In recent years, there has been a dramatic disintegration of pension and pay, and it is still disintegrating and will continue as long as the problem is not addressed. The Norwegian Minister's Committee issued a report two years ago or so on how there has been an inequities in the North countries and what needs to be done to counteract inequities. The important thing is that governments make sure that the benefits of social security, child - care, and housing work for real pay development and the least possible paybacks in the welfare systems. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is to change the 69th gr. the law on social security so that the sparkling between the retailers and those who have everything to pay their social security can be stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u81	A respectable president. First, I'm going to reiterate that we can expect the fishing fee to produce even more money than the budget's criteria are expected in view of the apparent success of the projecting year in 2019. We can see further from the pressures of the year that lies ahead. Here's a question about minimum incomes in the country and the context of social security benefits. In recent years, we have seen an enormous increase in the minimum income in the country. There have been types of collective agreements where time and again there is an emphasis on an increase in the minimum wage rate. It points out that social security needs to be followed in the same way as in the same rhythm. But the question that shouts at you in this regard is, Who's going to pay this? Who's to be paid when both social insurance and disability pensions are raised on budgets of about half? In seven, eight years, we have doubled the money to the budget. And the question remains, when people come here and say it's just not enough: who's going to pay for it? We have the insurance bill to live up to this, but there's an ever lower rate of social security funding. What's the money? A senator with the mind to increase over tens of billions of dollars of social security at the same time that a government fund is fired at 300 billion angles? 300 billion or so this year, and then 260 billion next year, almost 600 billion pitch. But, hey. A senator is actually proclaiming billions if not tens of millions of increase in expenses on top of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u82	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the speech. I think we can agree that the success we've achieved over the past few years in paying off debt and funding the currency store has been very important to the position we've been dealing with today. We have also been able to build much of our infrastructure, but surely we can always do better, and that is, in my opinion, with the financial strategy available and also give us a tremendous increase in the framework of expenses. It's, for example. The joy of seeing the contributions to innovation, research and knowledge exchange increase by 70% since 2017, and a great deal has been discussed in this hall. The growth in transport contributions has also increased dramatically, and I now do not talk about all the increases in health care. But now we are confronted with this virus, which is clearly clear to us that it has had a profound impact on society and on the financial affairs of the State. Some say that the forecast, which is the basis for this program, is optimistic. We know that there are no farms ahead of us, as happened during the upcoming of banks with stability contributions, and the debt ratios only decrease with economic growth and recovery when the economy returns. In this context, I would like to reflect on the position of the state funds, which at present have been kept to a minimum of historical interest, and the interest offered by the Icelandic government is considerably lower than that of those who volunteered for the 2008 financial crisis when virtually no one wanted to lend us and only on the fruit of the yoke. Of course, this low - interest environment will help the State to take up temporary battles to help with the restoration of the economy and maintain the well - being we have built. So I'd like to ask the minister first, how much of this angle will be funded by foreign loans and how much by domestic loans? There is nothing that can be seen in the present situation. Second, how can a fund be affected if more foreign loans are to be undertaken, e.g. if you have a vaccine later than expected?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u83	A respectable president. These are very important questions raised here and pointed to an important part of this strategy here, leading to the sliding process. The question really matters: How will we finance this, and what will it cost us in the long run? You're absolutely right. A senator that in recent years we have enjoyed a more favorable interest. This leads to a greatly improved State credit score, which has resulted from an international decrease in interest and growth in the country. I'd like to say that interest has just been down and has been historically measured within the country because we've been successful in the economy. We've had a good deal of money policy and money. This question is addressed directly: Is it possible to borrow foreign loans, and to what extent? I would answer that, so that would be possible. In recent years, we have not had the need for foreign loans to finance government spending. In fact, we have been paying off our loans at home, and we had a very high debt ratio. Under such circumstances, it would have been strange to finance the government with foreign loans. However, there is only a limit to the extent to which we can trust in the domestic bond market and the domestic budget market for government funding, and therefore it cannot be excluded that we will, to some extent, trust in foreign loans. But we should try to keep it to a minimum because, in the long run, and for the overall population, it is better to have our debts at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u84	Mr. President. I thank the secretary for the answers, and I agree that it is, of course, always best not to take a loan, but it is quite possible that we may have to do some of that in the light of the situation, especially if something is delayed in reaching out for the delinquency and what if a vaccine is delayed. We're here with a five-year plan, and at the end of it, we're assuming a little contraction. We, considering, need to reduce the share of debt by an average of 5% per three years following this schedule. So you wonder, " How much can I miss the plans here to keep the plan going? ' It has been said of adding just indefinitely into investment, and 1% of GDP is 30 billion. How much can we do with the suggestions we are here for this? You're concerned with the nature of the case, but you're also concerned about the collection of state funds, if the inflation takes place and everything we're always talking about. There are many things tore up in the plan, but I may feel that there is something missing in writing or analysis, a projection of optimism, as well as a future projection. But if we try to move to some percentage: How much is needed to allow this schedule to soar and inflation and other things to start?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u85	A respectable president. I'm going to be a spokesman that can't be taken lightly. I'm going to be very hard on this plan, since we have to work on arrangements to achieve our goals if economic growth is not to become more responsible. It should not be headed for a higher State debt ratio than approximately 50%. It would be irresponsible to try to maintain the country's standard of living longer than is expected in this programme without a rational basis. Indeed, we can take a firm stand, and it is the right thing for us to make a temporary compromise to support the economy. But when the virus stops watching when it has left the community, we have to take our policy lightly from losing debt. It may take some time, and it must be started in time, so there is little to worry about. I also intend to maintain a view that even though we have our own currency, we Icelanders can't afford to owe us as much as other countries do. It's because of the composition of the economy and our being exposed to greater fluctuations than the variety of economic systems. This means that we should continue to base on the system of debt that is more rigid in debt than any other nation assumes. We had that argument in our time, and I think it proved itself right now. What seemed to be an enormous amount of room in terms of even the 300 billion debt collections - imagine you 300 billion debt collections, before we really wanted to try the debt rule, this seemed to be an enormous amount of space - suddenly just enough for 2020 and we'll be far beyond it in 2021. Of course, we're talking about an unprecedented situation and an incredible collection of debt within a short period of time. But this shows how important it is for us to have rigid debts and to get us back into the rules of the law when conditions have improved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u86	Mr. President. It was a pleasure to hear the grandest. Ministers talk about the importance of using technology to investigate tax fraud and tax collections. That's exactly what I wanted to ask about specific techniques. Scholar Charles Babbage, who designed the first calculus and computers in the 180th century, stated in his life story: "If wrong numbers were inserted into a calculator, the results would still be correct. " Thus, a projection that is fundamental to financial planning has been criticized for having little fortune - telling value, especially in terms of financial matters, since financial matters are only limited to a very limited degree included in the model. This, along with figures published in financial programs, raises questions about how the results should be considered trustworthy. In this context, it is reasonable to ask, " Is there no basis for any consistent assessment of the prophecy? ' How likely it is, e.g. that after a financial recession of 1,21/218% for two years, it will mount up to 8% growth of 2021? How soon after the import of 103/4:23% for two years is it likely that it will flare up to 17% growth of 2021? It is naturally difficult to predict the behaviour of the economy when there has been an absolute failure in the current situation with Covid-19. But the other is that even when such a blow has come, it is possible to visualize how things should work, assume abnormalities, even belts and bracelets. That's what I'm thinking. There's a specific basic prince in calculus that goes in like a slush, trash out. Believes at most. The minister of finance, for the prophecies of this defective model will be fulfilled? How likely does he consider the predictions to be effective? How should we react when it turns out that they do not meet, even in the best of years? We know that this is a more difficult situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u87	A respectable president. That's exactly the tip of the question. A senator that we must make every effort to ensure that our national interests are supported by the best methods and available data. We need to realize that when we predict the income and the remuneration of the Kingdom, it rests on grounds that have been calculated and are not perfect. For one thing, we now have a financial program of optimism and pessimism. We're trying to deepen the discussion on exactly those factors. It's always the same thing that you see, no matter which side you roll this die, that economic growth is always the dominant factor in how everything is going to be played. It is possible to wonder, " Is it likely that economic growth will be much higher in the next year or in the near future? ' A senator turned aside. But I think history shows that the Icelandic economy is extremely flexible. We're an open economy. In the last ten years, we've been through an overly intense growth season. No one could foresee the outstanding growth in the arrival of tourists. We saw that in the progress that is now drawing to a close, and the economic fluctuation we were in when we took the biggest initiative we've had in about 20 years ago, that the work market is extremely flexible in Iceland. Thus we were able to prevent what most models would expect by attending a foreign labor force in our country. I don't think it's right to use the word "junk" in the context of the Habitat fortunes. I think it's the right method for us to let the secretary of finance not make up their own predictions, regardless of foreign experts'opinion, but that he is being built on the economic forecast. [[The president calls.]] It can be discussed back and forth. [[The president calls.]] But this is the form I think is most likely to produce results.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u88	President. There's a problem, like the highest. A minister says that economic growth is an underlying factor. In recent years it has been said that economic growth is primarily a measure of change in the amount of money in traffic. In fact, it is much better to build such analyses of production power or other factors that simply focus on how much people are producing valuables and other things. This may come to a point because we have this model, and it has a ring. In the equation, there is a concentration of cyclic sensibility that makes economic growth always wrong. We have a projection that has virtually no predictions, as shown, even in good times. Now a financial program is being built on a forecast that has virtually nothing to do with it. It may be true that we must work with what we have. That is why the first question was, How will we react when it turns out to be wrong, as it is almost certain? Now it may be okay to use the rest of the time to discuss another factor. Now in the Ministry of finance, a new digital leader has been in building up and improving the technical support of the State, and much has been done. But would it not be in the light of circumstances to try to speed up the process further? The budget is in a hurry. But why did they stop where they were stopped? Isn't there a basis for a much faster performance, and perhaps in view of the need for a better algorithm, to use real - time information better than we have been doing, and even to create some kind of projection that adapts to the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u89	A respectable president. I'm not going to make an issue about economic growth being not a perfect measure of what is happening in the economy, but it gives a very strong general clue and is laid on the basis of all developed countries and all international institutions dealing with economic issues. However, there are other factors that must be viewed as wrong. A senator points out. Societyal growth is a key factor. We've seen it, for example. in the most recent OECD counts of 2019 that pay in Iceland has increased far beyond what has happened in other countries as a share of production in the country. It's just a serious matter, and it indicates that we've gone ahead. Here is the underlying question: What should we do if the basis for this plan is wrong? For example, suppose, first of all, that economic growth and growth are wrong and the situation becomes worse. Then I have said many times that we are awaiting adjustment to a new reality, and there will be very difficult times. At that time, we have set the budget of the state's budget far above the income gathering system. We would simply be, if we weren't going to intervene and adapt to new realities, to take the quality of life out of the future, and then to let the future generations take account of it. It's in my opinion that it's undefeated. Of course, this also shows that in recent years we have been building the public ministry and its good things on the shoulders of our employment. When employment is lost in the workplace, it becomes evident that we cannot afford the level of service. I appreciate the encouragement to promote digital Iceland, Iceland and everything that's going on there. [[The president calls.]] We're in a lot of action. I hear a call to do more and go further. I'm glad you're here. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. We've been looking for ways to increase the number of service routes in Iceland. And there's a lot of work to do there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u90	Mr. President. One of the important things that are put on, and I think it is, of course, proper, is trying to increase society's investments in trying to get bikes started and create jobs. The nuclear word in government investments and the government's work today, doing so by means of a debt that I don't make a difference, is that what is under attack is profitable and will bring long - term benefits to society. It is the justification for such action. In a recent review of financial policy, it is suggested that when it comes to investing national interests or investments, it is a significant concern when it comes to investments. In this context, I would like to, in the future, to mention a plagiarization proposal adopted by 2018, of the financial minister's policy on the quality, practicalness and effectiveness of public investments. There's not been a report yet, but I'd like to ask the highest level. Secretary of finance to what methodology is used in selecting and implementing tasks and whether it is absolutely clear that the most profitable choice is always chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u91	A respectable president. It is true that we build our investment efforts, including those that we may have. that it is now wise to make long - term money for money. It is not merely because they are profitable but because circumstances have led to a room for the expansion of the government's investments. Because of the lax investments made in the private sector, there is room for that. It is not only because of a profit motive but also because of the economic reasons we have decided to take action. In the long run, we need to keep very close watch on the state investment levels so that we can be sure that we will meet the minimum need for public property. By means of a new accounting rule, we are building a government balance account that enables us to look over time to what is being written there. Then we will gradually be able to offer rough food - only a gross estimate - on whether an investment works out of the writing process. If not, we're walking to the powder. What we've done so far is even. building it into a transport plan for making interest evaluations. It is then the role of a transport adviser to suggest the priorities of tasks that include transport. is being watched for profit. But we are not here; we do not have a complete estimate of all the interests of interest. We are more based on general evidence that some types of projects may prove to be more profitable than others. Of course, the Senate is known for regularly making clean political decisions on investments, regardless of economic interest measurements, the subject of another discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u92	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It seems to me that there might be a considerable task here, and maybe it would have been better if the work had been done. It gives me a little Spanish when it comes to accepting that not all the projects and projects that are undertaken are profitable. I would have thought that there should be a good list of lucrative projects for society that will provide a growing economic advantage in the future, which would be possible for them. That's where I think a pot is broken, and I'm sure it's not just on account of the highest. For example, a financial minister may have committed some sins in the past that he did not put forth more effort to do so. Of course, I have to nod when I'm the highest. A minister points out that the council may at times be a matter of passing out a little. But we have to try to make a solution that doesn't happen because I think it's very bad if the state is in debt to projects that are not known. It's like the highest. Ministers have spoken of general truths. Today, general truth is often that it does not always have a realistic estimate, when it comes to large investments on that basis. I'd like to encourage the highest. The minister and the government, as well as all of us, to step in to these matters so that we can be sure that projects are profitable and effective. If, for some reason, they want to do other work, they will not be put in the sense that it is based on a practical basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u93	A respectable president. I welcome the emphasis. A senator puts forth effort to make return investments. We may be aware of this in transport workers, where traffic time and traffic safety are viewed as short - term. We have a list that shows where the accidents will be most important and how much effort can be made by fixing a road mechanic where we can reduce travel time, reduce accidents, increase safety, and so on, quality of life. Environmental issues and air quality will also come into play. So this is extremely important. I'm gonna give them a heads-up. A senator will be an excuse for me to review my original findings, which is the financial account of the state and the importance of looking at whether we are maximising the balance of the financial account, the property of the state, at the same time that we exploit new investments. We've used the methodology to go public renting so we'll see only black on whites how much it costs us to store citizens in a certain home. Here, there's a lot of media, for example. to pay market rent for housing. This brings up the State's cost of holding the property. The option, then, is always to dispose of the property, sell it at high prices, move the operation to a less expensive site, thus maximising the use of funds committed in the State's financial balance if you see that the total interest is in this. I think it's possible to go over all the government's balance accounts very carefully and ask ourselves questions about whether we're maximizing the value of the property. Of course, in this relationship the mind wanders far and wide. That, for example, the kingdom may be a very large owner of banks. You might ask yourself, " Is that money stored well? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u94	A respectable president. During the previous discussion, the 69th verse came up. Social Security Act and the highest. The secretary of finance repeatedly asked: Who should pay? We used to be, for example. discuss pay development. They're supposed to increase your social security according to pay development. But with some amazing trick, it hasn't been done. There is only a 3.6% rise in the coming year, although the trend should be about 7%. Yet, this financial program tells us that pay development is about 5.2%. These are the most amazing tricks to prevent social security workers from following pay. It'll always be more and more. But who will pay? I think it would be really smart now that we're going to make a deposit in a pension fund. What would we get to do that? Probably about 100 billion. What could you do with your money? Much improvement could be made in the interests of the poor, older citizens, the unemployed, the health - care system. This money could be extremely useful, even if it were only temporary in today's formidable situation. That's why I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: How does he feel about this idea, that we just get involved in it? I don't think anyone would object because it's kind of a great idea, especially in the light of the fact that we could have the earmark money on welfare issues. At the same time, we might make sure that no one would have to line up after meals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u95	A respectable president. I understand that some people wonder if they can start taxing on payment or even accept government tax that is in the pension system. These ideas were toyed about ten years ago, and we risked them to counterweight with the methodology that was then run and consisted of raising a considerable amount of taxes at that time, after the collapse of the financial system. But we'll get out of the situation then, without going that way. I think we should make an effort to do the same now. I believe we have here in front of us a very trustworthy plan out of the situation. There may be two things I would like to mention in that context. First, each year we grow older. We'll never have seen as many years of old, retired people as we can see in a few years. This trend will continue year after year, and it is becoming relatively rapid. The fact that the nation is getting older is a concern for the government. It will cost us much more to care for these people. In that case, we will find it useful to have taxes on how to pay in pension incomes. Hv. A senator said maybe we should just do this for a while. I think there's really no way of doing this temporarily. I think we're either going to have to figure out what to do with all the taxes and start taxing on credit or not. It would be very difficult to step temporarily and then back into the old system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u96	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answer. I'd like to point out that in the collapse hundreds of billions of taxes were lost. Why were they lost? Yeah, because we're going to leave the pension fund on the market with the government's taxes. We just have the examples in front of us now, for example. With Icelanda and the Pension Fund. That's where we lost a lot of money. How much taxes were lost there? Is it not far better for the government to have that money? If we were to do this permanently, we could use the money during the crisis to make life easier for older people, farmers, health - care professionals, and all of it. Then you could put it in a reserve. Then it's at least Come to the state and not be playing with it on the market. I think it's kind of a brilliant idea. Did we realize that our pension system has become 5,000 billion? And there we are talking about nearly 2,000 billion tax returns. That's not a nickel. That's really weird, because we know it's just money in the woods, not in the hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u97	A respectable president. In the end, I think that the pensions would be fine in comparison with the state's funds for financial responsibility. If we took all this money to heart, there is no guarantee that we will take it better for a longer time than the pensions within the rule they perform. In fact, I believe that the pension fund is fully committed to doing very well in behalf of the nation. However, the question is exactly right. A senator's challenges are to the extent of the pension system. We are not a bigger economy than we have seen, and in recent years, we have seen a somewhat bleak trend in terms of the business of the pension fund. There will be occasional failures, but the success of others is often less pronounced. In addition, the pension system has been doing well, and it was relatively well off after a major blow in the collapse. Scenarios related to the size of the pension fund are presented to us. in the incredibly high proportion of pension funds in the registered stock market, the percentage of registered associates we've never seen before. For a short time, the pension fund had about 20% of the amount of money left, but they now have more than 50%. The need for investment is so great that it can affect the flow of payment in and out of the country. There are new challenges. They are in a certain way a luxury problem because they reflect a great deal of money in the country. We can cope with this and make it a matter of doing it well. I think the idea of going rather the way of taxing a pension fund than the one who's invited here is not good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u98	A respectable president. I'd like to mean that one of the biggest changes in transport that has been seen in this country are ahead of us. This group of subjects goes to 56 billion or 67% of the 83 billion in my department. Over the next 5 years, there are 282 billion. I think it's safe to say that the people of the country have not had such a period of construction in transport and road transport. As soon as we work against the recession of the economy, we make our road system big and increase the safety that has been and is my heart's concern. So I'll mention some projects, it's a double Sifjanes Way, Southland Road, and Westland Road through Kjalarnes, Roastland Road, Vestafjörður Road of the Gufudals, a road through the city's coast and a bridge over the glacier in the Mountains, to name a few projects. Inside this is the capital deal with its 120 billion projects, the newly formed society. I'd also like to mention cooperation on the road, cooperation between public and professional life. They may go on to big, important projects that support national benefits and emphasis on traffic security. First, the bridge will be over the Horny Plain, a new road over the Axes, and a new Elfjörður Bridge. Other projects include a lowland tunnel and a tunnel through a trying mountain in the Moriscos, a second tunnel under the Halfground, and the Sunway. One of the main safety measures is the reduction in single-burn bridges. The government's investment campaign accounts for 5.8 billion for the next five years and aims to reduce the number of roadways by more than half during the period, 19 in 2025 instead of 36 today. We'll add to the ports and important water cover. Next year there are 1.8 billion for provision. There are large tasks on the drawing table, focusing on meeting the needs of the season, such as new waterfronts at the Sun Bank on Isafjörður, extending the North Garden of Gravitation, rebuilding steel spells in the Deepvag because of increasing fish farming activity and rebuilding the Bjöflf's banks on Soilndir farms, to name a few. It's certainly down on the flight now, but it's temporary. Meanwhile, we make good use of the time, investing in the markets. The following year there are 3.8 billion available for domestic flight, and in the next five years up to 14 billion may be on the flight. They are now working to expand the base of Akureyri, with the goal that it will be better equipped to accept an increase in international flight. At that time, the airport will also be enlarged to ensure safety of airport flights and to strengthen the role of the airport as a reserve airport. In addition, airports are being maintained in many parts of the country, such as in Reykjavík, Isafjörður Airport, Thors Harbor Airport, and certain landing sites, such as Northland. It will affect safety, favour, and positive development. I released this list of Egl's airports that are being built up as a backup airport in the international system. However, more is needed than the presence of the infrastructure. They need to be used. I have stressed that the inhabitants of the country should be able to balance their facilities, improve their access to central service in the capital by making the international flight more practical for the inhabitants of the country. It's been going on, and I'm proud of the ceiling bridge I opened for the last month. The population in the country is now available for a 40% off - rate flight rate. The project is, in fact, a cohesive project of transport and rurality. At the same time, the climate is one of the biggest national paces that has been involved in equality in recent years. I know these are big words, but there is no new news that there is a significant difference between the use of men and women on the international flight as public transportation. Women usually pay for the flight themselves, but men don't pay much for the flight themselves. Of the business travellers, 82% are male. There's plenty to go on in the community. We will continue to support national parish programmes. We focus on increasing the number of employment instruments, telecommunications, telecommunications stations, and health services. You know how it is. I'm changing into communication and online security, and I see that time is getting shorter. That's where we add, especially the Internet security. That will be a great deal of success in society, 1.6 billion over the next five years. Another security case is the new radio cable, the third one that will be found between Ireland and Iceland and will bear the beautiful name Iris. It creates opportunities for employment and investment within the country and for foreign investments. I don't need to mention a light-related country here. Finally, I'm going to name the locals. There are temporary difficulties, such as those of others. There are temporary difficulties in people who have lost their jobs, whose clients have lost their jobs, in the countries that have both failed income and increased expenses. Hence, in this temporary situation, countries and societies need to work hand in hand, as we signed in a joint declaration. It's a temporary situation. Our mission is to soften the impact, keep the sea, and be ready when it is published, as it will be published. [[The president calls.]] And then we'll be ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u99	Mr. President. There is a very interesting thistle on the website of the European Union. It covers extensive support from the Norwegian countries to the rural communities. At the end of it, the Icelandic government's new agreement with rural society is indeed welcomed, but the article concludes with these words by permission: Nonetheless, it is clear that Icelandic rural society is not really given the same amount of support from the government as from other parts of the North countries. I realize that these are temporary difficulties, but I am concerned that this is not making it possible for certain rural society to be as much involved in the resistance as necessary, e.g. not being able to make enough investments. You see, historically, rural society has represented approximately 1 percent of the population in the United States. 50% of all investments. How important it is that they can continue their high investment levels! Added to this, of course, concern that the community's close - knit services in the country, which are often given by rural society, are in danger. Besides that, the State government is promoting a reduction in public activity only to increase the problem. Granted, rural society is in very poor shape. But there is no exaggeration to say that all of them are in considerable difficulty in this crisis, and they cannot owe themselves in the same way that they cannot earn money in the way that the State does. That's why I say, "I'm at the top." Ministers say their last words on this matter? Will he give more support to rural society and then where, how, and when?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for fine speculations and excellent questions about the situation of the local community. I agree that the situation differs. I wouldn't want to put it that way, so it's generally bad, because after seven years of economic growth, you would assume that some rural society had lived for the better, and you wouldn't expect the economic growth to be endless. But she's really different, and I share worry with you. A senator because the rural communities will be sufficiently powerful for a long time to share in investments, as they have truly done. However, I would like to remind you that the government has done a considerable amount of work. In spring, we were told that we would need to meet the drop of income that would be in the equation. This year it turns out to be more than 4 billion. In connection with this declaration the other day, we have the funding that is nearly 5 billion, because we are always in temporary condition. But I would like to remind you that by what we did in our budget and by various measures, some 15 billion have already been introduced to rural society, including in direct donations. There were probably about 3 billion in spring, both in support of sensitive groups, in health care, in mental - health matters, in children's leisure activities, and with everyone working the campaign, which is probably about a billion and that will be another billion next year. And, of course, with a number of other measures aimed at strengthening the situation in the rural areas; in ports, air traffic, etc. So I would expect the extent of our day to be directly or indirectly about 20 billion this year, not just the 5 that this statement indicates.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u101	Mr. President. Last time I checked, this campaign, like, wasn't being carried out. to leisure children, but let's leave it alone. It is true that many societies have lived in the best interests of their own. It's just a hell of a hit. It's going to be so much longer than we expected. It would be incredible if my rural society had to save out of this crisis, take it to an increase in mold at school, or postpone important projects, so I don't talk about cutting things down in my neighborhood. But now I'm going to put on everything else. Now I'm going to go to a little history because when I was preparing for this earlier, I remembered when I was a member of the local government and a senior officer. Minister was the minister of the marine road and agricultural business. Then I went to a really fun meeting with him at the Ministry on the parish plans. I think it's in a financial programme that we're supposed to cut off money for the parish plan. He then put on a brilliant idea that the cost of fishing was related. I found this to be fun and a great improvement because the local communities around the country would benefit directly because the fishing costs would not be dropped from all control. That is why, since I have the opportunity to ask, "Is it the highest? " A minister still thinks about this brilliant idea, or has he brought someone else?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u102	A respectable president. First, I'd like to finish this with my community. In a declaration under which we signed, the government's point of view, on one side to support these measures, we declare that we are ready to continue to monitor the development of funds and to be behind our societies as far as possible, ensuring that their activities will not be too confused in the months to come and miss. The support the proclamation includes an important step along that way, so I will answer the question in the previous answer. Then I don't know that parish plans are down. It may be that due to the spring raise temporarily, we added 200 million more if they are not expected to follow but they are not down. There's no cut. Then there is a reason. A senator is one of 2011's great ideas of the Agency's enterprise in working on a fishing policy. Then we were wondering how we could make sure that in our rural communities or settlements where the resource is used, our income goes more directly to the companies, to parts of the community or to the national community, because it belonged to them rather than go directly to the state funds. This idea is as good as it was then, and I'm ready to take a discussion about it into the future and what's more: we've had a lot of new and good ideas, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u103	President. The financial program says: An additional example of system improvements that could bring significant improvements in economic development would be to promote and integrate rural government levels with the aim that it could have both a more active share in the successful economy.... At the same time as this is in a financial program, the secretary of finance is endeavoring to explain the level of the countryside as an independent administrative point. At the same time, the government is trying to legalize rural societies into a unit that I believe is not a constitution and a law. Furthermore, we know that rural income stocks have failed to meet the requirements for quality services. The pay of public staff from rural communities is lower than the pay of public employees from the state. In financial programmes, the aims and criteria for future development are that the proportion of those less than 20 miles [30 km] from the clinic does not decline based on the 2018 situation. It's not supposed to go up, it's just not going to turn down. It is a resolution, not in accordance with the fact that economic management should be successful. In view of this, I'd like to ask the local Secretary of Staff how sound and image actually go together. How are rural communities independent when they are legally forced by their cohesion? How are rural communities independent when income stocks fail to provide legal projects, income institutions that have been determined by governments that have majority authority at the council? Based on the fact that two of the government classes have been ruling over over the past few decades, how do they really have the credibility to promote improvement in the government level? Let us be absolutely clear that the present situation is at the command of the ruling classes. There is no evidence that they have any vision of the future in the community, how we need to focus seriously on the construction of a global service core to make the necessary and self - serving services really available in each area of employment. There is absolutely nothing in this financial program that shows such the will of power classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u104	A respectable president. That was quite a shock, all kinds of statements. For example, I might wear them individually, but I'm going to try to answer the senator on a subject and ask him one question or two: Is the senator willing to agree that it would be wise to go to a major political level? If the senator agrees, there are some ways to do so. The way you're going in the statement that I spoke to you about. Einarsson It is earlier that we place 935 million on the request of our rural society to strengthen and support the unity of our community. That's obvious. There is also an agreement with the member of the financial programme for the next five years on which they can work with the State to become sustainable in this environment, which is truly full of uncertainty about Covid. We have a clear view of the wisdom of creating a stronger unit of rural unions, including those in the United States. Because two independent local political experts have appreciated this, and unity was proposed in a Senate resolution adopted here at the council and then by the council. A senator calls a legal force. I'll ask him again, if he agrees that it's wise to promote the level of government and expand the rural areas, how can you do it if you're going to have some opinion as a member of the council and is the one who puts the law on the rurals? How can that be legal? So that's all we do here, isn't it? We're putting songs on all possible and impossible things. Then there is the law of independence. The same applies to the communities. What we're doing is working in a single combination to present ideas on how to support the unity, how to take place. They'll tell you what. A senator, 3.56.5 billion each year, benefits to the inhabitants of these rural communities. [[The president calls.]] Then they will not have to come to the Kingdom and ask for 5 billion support each year, but they will be able to make it themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u105	A respectable president. The question was not answered and more asked. Yeah, I agree with that, but it's a question of how. The law I'm talking about is a violation of the constitution, and that's why it's legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u106	Wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u107	Next, I'd like to ask about online security issues that are important in modern society. Recently, we learned that Danir has granted access to communications through the U.S. intelligence services in Denmark. It certainly brings to mind the network of our Icelanders, most of whom pass through Danish jurisdiction. What counsel has a minister taken to guard our lines of communication? He's responsible for communication. I'd also like to ask a minister about government policy and especially communication. Now it's time to raise the manifest of Farice to add Farice 2. Is it consistent with a policy of ownership that the list is raised to cover them, and is it positive for the Icelandic economy? Whether the answer is yes or no, a minister needs to answer why. As I don't get tired of pointing them out, the Ministers need to explain to the council and to the nation why public projects are positive for the Icelandic economy. More specifically, we need to understand why remuneration is a better way to finance the project rather than some other way, as perhaps the PPP, which I know is interested in, or clean official implementation, or any other possibility people might think of.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u108	A respectable president. Hv. A senator avoided answering my questions about rural society. [[I'm asking.]] If there is a clear course and a good way to go in that direction, but they say, I am against these paths, then they must come in any other way. That's what happened. Not a senator. In terms of ensuring communication, I think it is very easy to explain it to all the people of the country, to all the public in the country, to all the companies and to the instruments under it, that it is a very reasonable investment to go to the third large, let's say, the sea cable--then I'm not forgetting the fourth person going to Greenland - because of a significant increase in safety. Now I'm afraid to give the numbers, but I think we're talking about going from 99.5 to 99.9 or so. That's the key to safety. Of course, all of us work around the Internet, and perhaps more communication is in an acceptable place, but at the same time, we'll be able to build up more advanced data industry or other activities that are involved. That's why I think it's very easy to explain to the public that it's a reasonable investment. It is also easy to explain, I think, to the public in the country and to the management that it is wise to do this at the hand of the state that has been fully acquired by the state, it has happened during the period of this government, to ensure competition. The chapter in between will be a core unit of government, but then they will compete at the end of their corporate technical solutions rather than some pressure-induced monologue on the string or the few. [[The president calls.]] I think I can very well explain that this is a very reasonable investment. Of course it has to be financed. This will likely be done both by borrowing, by increasing their own money, and by possible remuneration. A senator mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u109	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister of the past and would like only to have a word with him in basic two matters. One is about the other, and we'll start with that. It now has a plan and aim to increase the growth of rural communities and to the small size of them and, in fact, to the minister's Constitution. What this leads to, however, and I may not feel that it has been enough in the discussion is how this affects the democracy of the rural communities, how this affects people's approach to democracy, and so directly affects the control of their rural society. That's what I'm saying. I'm completely in agreement with the goals at the highest. The Minister has published the exact agreement we agreed on last year. So I wondered, " Is it reasonable for the Minister to believe that even within the financial program or in some way in the Ministry's rules there to be some kind of standard for that, perhaps more advanced guidelines, than now legally stated on a number of local government agents, whether there should be a separation to form home governments, as if it were decided to do in the east, and we're going to see how it turns out? ' This may matter. Then there's the other part of the program, the gender equality and gender ideologies in the countryside, and if there's anything that's being worked with specifically in the Ministry. It is serious that women may actually be well inside, in many rural communities, a third of rural religion, but usually half the population. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u110	Mr. President. Thanks, man. A senator, for recording this subject in this discussion. It is true that in the context of budget and financial planning, we are putting capitals into this process, meeting one of 11 of the proposals in the Senate resolution of the expansion of the level of government, which is minimal in population, and in connection with the direct financial support of the balance fund. But there are other things in the synonym, including Special proposals for equality and, in fact, only democracy, as well. We're already working on it. The bill refers primarily to one of these 11 suggestions, but we are working on the basis of all the rest of the proposals in this mass resolution in different areas. I agree with what. A senator that it is a most exciting way to establish world governments at the New Company Mujalla Council in East America. I think there are a lot of rural areas that are wondering together on a large area of land, which is the case in many cases in Iceland, just looking at how it's going to work. We are, for example. in the JOSE Committee's agreement with the local community for the next five years, to write in text that attracts partnerships and financial support, but as a result, a review of the overall analysis of the rules of an equation will be required. This whole thing hangs more and less together, like I was trying to talk to each other about it. George, it's George Pirata. He's a senator earlier today. This is one combination, the approach to how we interact with our societies because, of course, they are the other administrative level, and the same in terms of that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u111	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. The minister himself, I'm sure, in fact, with more work to the countryside and how we could contribute to this and expand our rural society is certainly the only way to do that. Then I'd like to follow, just to bring in the Minister what I've talked about, both here and anywhere else, Which part of the missions are being taken over or accepted by rural society, let's say, should be selective. This has been tested in agreement with rural society for health care at both the Akureyri and the Hornfjord, and perhaps the question is, Should that be more so? Should we, then, have some kind of motivation in the balance fund in order to meet such a situation? The other thing I'd like to mention is the transport contract that I consider to be a great deal of joy and a reasonable space in the budget. There it is, on page 19. 246 set up environmental transport targets. I wondered, " Is it really the best thing to do, that in 2021 26% of the transport in the capital area is environmental or sustainable, perhaps being reasonable, and whether we don't have a community to try to go much higher than this? ' This is, in effect, expected to increase by 1% a year in these factors. I want to go to the highest. A minister will determine whether he cannot see an opportunity to go forward in a more specific way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u112	A respectable president. First, just the questions about local societies. I've got a little bit scared that we're going to classify societies in A and B, in the first category and second category, by putting on different duties. Of course, the challenge today is unbearable, as it is, with communities of varying degrees, from 30 to 130,000 people to 130,000, and that is also unfair. That's why we're on this mission. On the other hand, I do not find that a dull thought, and it seems to me that these projects have done in many ways well, experimenting on health matters. I know it quite well from the Cape of the Hornfjord, where people performed experiments around home nursing and services and actually all the health care and all that. I don't think we should be afraid of anything like that. There is a warrant for that in the local administration Act, just as we discussed at home. With regard to our climate goals, the benefits of transport energy exchange, I just agree. Senator. A few years ago, we set out small goals or talked about many things, such as. banning the import of the 2030 gas and diesel trucks and we thought it was very bold. I don't think it'll ever try such a ban. We talked about that in a relatively few years, we were supposed to be in 25%. All we can see is that it's now by revolution between the ages, so I think we have to challenge ourselves to the hills and join with the wind. A senator said that it is all right to reexamine such goals regularly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u113	Mr. President. It's a very tight form we have here to discuss this super-cool party. I'll agree with the highest. Ministers that it is arranged that there are significant changes in transport ahead, and I trust we will have the opportunity to deal with the big picture and deal with specific matters. But to use only the time here, there are clearly some good things to do, although there are always better things to do. What I might want to do in the first pass is this approach. In view of the situation, it is my opinion that it is simply economic responsibility to take a big step right away, to speed up action as possible. There's been quite a talk here and the highest. The secretary of finance arrived, e.g. If you agree that there is a need for action, this is not necessarily a matter of financing alone, i.e. The debt, it has to be in place. That's why this is a major concern. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to a possible review of the To-do List, on the one hand, of the transport programme and on this bill on the cooperation project on road projects both approved at the General Assembly last spring. Has a minister considered changing the development program, e.g. by bringing in some of the projects of this PPP list, a six-program list, into a public clean-up and possibly taking someone else on one of their own? It was foretold that six projects were not necessarily the projects that would be best done on their own. There were other reasons, and I specifically mention the Ebjörg Bridge. It is prepared for environmental assessment and is generally well on its way. Would it be something that could help with this pace? The other thing I'd like to mention, and the minister came on, is a decrease in the number of single bridges. There's good news but, nevertheless, there are quite a number of such things left over in some five-year list of projects. Is this not an ideal task to speed up the situation in which we now live?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It is true that time is running out, but let's try to use it for this. In all the preparations for these huge transport projects - because we were both going to spit in a transport plan and to think outside the box that ended in cooperation and that we met the capital capital agreement and thus we were able to perform a significant amount of work - we always kept our eyes on the ball: Can the contractors manage this? The answer I received was that we had always been within their boundaries. The key point was that we weren't giving for a year or two but we were looking back for a few years because our companies couldn't grow like accordion, one, two and three. It would be too expensive, and they simply would not be able to cope. But they thought that what we were doing was manageable. However, more factors come in there. For example, one reason some items have been delayed e.g. unexpected decision by the Organization to have the Kjalarnes Road take over the environment. It delayed organizational procedures. In fact, we've already had an offer, but we could have seen projects on it this summer. He had been financed, and the design was complete. With regard to the cooperation effort and whether it would be possible to take some of those who might be delayed because of the form if I could understand the senator correctly, into direct financing, I would feel inclined to look at it. I think the bridge across the Hornland, however, is most likely the best. The early design of the Elfjörður Bridge is complete, but we are trying to look for ways to make financial benefits in this new route that can save up to 20% of government money. [[The president calls.]] We can say in another way that 20% of this money can be used on more projects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u115	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. 20% of the savings done by some type of project is always well kept quiet, and especially in these times. It's good to be examined. I'm happy to know that we're all looking for ways because it's important too. And this accordion, which ministers well describe, is correct as long as the private project is complete, but it is natural to fall. I'd like to use this second pass to the rurals. During a conversation with what? paritaprevir The union, Logi Einarsson, came to the top. Ministers into government assistance for the problem that rural society is facing today. It was good to hear that the government would continue to monitor the development of local societies. I wanted to make a brief conversation with the minister about the legal role of a unit that serves our most vulnerable groups. We have a story of what happened over a decade ago in another crisis that affected our communities, such as a government fund, and it suffered from services in the same groups. We are seeing very bad consequences now. So it's extremely fragile. Now I do not plan to set priorities for people's problems, but it is important that we do so in the limelight. I wondered if in this conversation all, community members at the Ministry, local minister of the management office and finance minister and then the other members of the community were somehow trying to assess the potential effect of a switch in this service when it comes to the assistance of the rural communities in the long order of their institutions and of the services that now need to be cared for. Has this taken place during the past few months and then possibly in view of the experience we have since about a decade ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. At the same time, a senator was looking at this only because in support of the rurals in connection with the government's declaration, it was seen to ensure that the rural communities have the same financial status to deal with the problems of disabled people. At that time, an additional amount of money was put in just as it was last year. Similarly, financial support, often for the most vulnerable groups, was estimated to increase by about 30%. That is why over 700 million were given exactly that assignment. But I'd like to mention the third act that's not in this statement. V.E.G. Department of Social Affairs and the one listed here set up a team that immediately began to monitor the progress of rural activities in the service of vulnerable groups. There were regular meetings with the president of the European Union, with us counsellors and key executives. But the point was that communication between the local community and the State was direct at that time. We put funding for this last spring on that line. We changed the group to a larger team of workers, and they are now working where they are to identify the new arrivals in the rural areas. It has to be examined separately, and we are putting aside the funds we set aside from our equal funds into the immigrant Development Fund to support certain factors. So I think we're trying to use our finger in this, just learning from the experience of the last crisis. We hear it from other countries. They're asking how it works for us. Many of them had trouble during March and April of this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u117	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers and continue the discussions we were in earlier on income farm members and their legal projects, especially the issues of disabled persons. We know that certain rims are at public transportation for disabled people in the country. I don't think ambitions are great when you have to order 24 hours a day in a wheelchair to make it to a bus in the country. I think it's a very small ambition given the way the Rebblers handled it. They bought a whole busot, a completely new one, which makes it possible for wheelchairs to get on a bus every time they need it. Of course, the other is even more serious, but there is a local community that said that he could not serve a disabled person who had the right to NPA and simply took over and placed him in a nursing home. This went even further with what he was to pay for that assistance, and he was in the position of losing his home and that of others. It tells us that there's something really wrong in there. Now, in the present condition, financial support for poverty and other things, I still ask a minister: What does he see in this situation? Does he see the solution to the guarantee that this service will be fully impaired and preferably better?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u118	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator that we can often look to the Entires and good role models there. I have just studied how they handled this in an adequate way in public transportation on the roads. Certainly there are shorter road systems and smaller people, less people. That's what I'm talking about. A senator, of course, says that what we have discussed earlier today is a challenge for different societies and of different sizes of living under the same service; I don't talk about the addition of distances. That is why the government has watched a little bit of how to strengthen the communities. I mentioned that before Covid arrived, we decided to support the affairs of disabled persons and that our communities had a little bit of the same money as last year, and also financial support, but clearly the need for it is growing. It's into things like we did in spring where we set 600 million to provide temporary support for leisure subsidies, to equal children's opportunities for sports and leisure activities, 540 million to increase health care services, especially the health benefits of home and mental - health services. We're reimbursed the same amount for next year. We put in spring 450 million to promote social resources and to provide support to vulnerable groups, we set 157 million for the total amount of NAPA contracts this year and about 100 million in supporting homeless resources, mainly here in Reykjavík and Akureyri. Mer thinks that we've tried to face these challenges and to help our communities with them, but I can say that doing better in the years to come is to throw a government fund in the corner, that's a challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u119	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I hope deeply and fervently that I will see to it that this service will not be impaired either. But there is something else. There's no flight to the Western Islands now. It's got to be a hell of a deal for the Western eyes, and I'm gonna ask a minister, "What's the solution to that situation? Does he not feel that it will be solved so that flights there will be secure? As soon as the flight's down there, we're discussing a city line that's an amazing thing I think we should postpone. Evolution is so rapid that the expected structure will not be necessary. All too much money is put into that structure, but at the same time, traffic problems are not being solved here in the capital area. As I've come many times before, you've wondered why it hasn't been solved once and for all. It would mean that when people entered the capital area on their way to Southnes, they would not have to go through all the rural areas, except the Seltanenes, to get their way. There's another one that seems to be a ghost, and that's the Sunway. It always seems to be somewhere in discussion, but nothing is going to happen. I'm asking the highest. Minister if he can predict that something will be done there. Or is it just a dream in a can?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u120	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has often talked about this upper road, but to be clear, it is in the hands of the locals. In fact, I heard the happy news that the fence is being placed on a so - called refugee road today, shutting it down. The road is there, but it would have to be a real third circle in the regional organization. I think we're gonna do what. A senator may agree to send them a message to the local community that it is a reasonable way to do so. Just as an organization is on top of the countryside or other members of the community, so is our flight to the Western Islands. It is not part of the government's strength, and therefore it is not for a transport minister, except that there is a need for manpower, i.e. The airport, the flight story, and so on. There, unfortunately, Istavia broke up with her staff. I'd rather have liked men to try first to secure their safety, in terms of medical flights and public security, but then look at the application instruments, how flights are going to be arranged. I know from my conversations that the town council and citizens and West Coast companies will be ready for a full-scale plan on flying that way. If you are looking at the minimum speed at Covid time, a minister will be ready to do the same. But this isn't exactly a minister because it's not a stately flight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u121	A respectable president. I'll discuss a large and important group of subjects, rural society, transportation, telecommunications, markets, and so forth. I'm going to try to combine my coverage with the highest level of discussion. Transport and rural Minister on two factors that link all of this together and that's ports and flights. Let's start with rejection. Now, as we know, and starting to talk about it for Covid, it is extremely important to increase our export income. They are very important. There are several ways to do so, and many factors are involved. There are fish farms, tourism, and the industry all together, and food production as a whole. There's a huge part to play. Three rejections are specifically mentioned in a financial paper. There is mainly the village, the Narchy, and then the harbor of the Sea of the Year. All of this is a big, big project that becomes even more important each day. We need to meet all the needs we now need, increase in export, increase in economic growth, environmental activities, more jobs. In the village crew, if that structure goes fast and safely, we're getting new food into the market faster. We're getting a passenger transport there to move people away from the mainland in a more environmental way and with a variety of travel methods. In the Northern Coast, by making a shelter there, we will see the exporting of Icelandic intelligence about shipwork and ship repairs, and one of the things I think are extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for recording these matters. I agree with him that this is a huge project we have. During this election season, we have become desolate to spit heavily at the palms of this class. If we take the harbors for example, we, between 2020 and 2021 years, are adding up to about 41%. We're adding 31% to the roads, which is a lot, but in rejection, we're adding up to about 41%. And from 2016 onward, i.e. The increase is 96%. I know we what we're doing. A senator knows why. It's simply because there's so much going on in protests. The ships are growing, and there's more activity. There are other ports that need import and export. He mentioned three. I've had a special meeting with the Vega program on these issues, on these three ports. The main problem is that at this point, we cannot tell us exactly how the plans of Vega, and the designers who are working with these harbours, look. However, the size degree is somehow so that next year, by adding 7,700,800 million, to me, we can continue on the lamp we're talking about with all these three projects. This too costs a billion dollars each year, 2022 and 2023. But as I have read the conversation in the hall today, people are more likely to encourage more investment than less. I think it's something we should try to get close, so I can reach out for these projects, which surely cost money but are the basis for creating exports in the years to come and new jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u123	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these clear answers. Clearly, we agree that there is a cost to making a profit, and there is just a chance. I think we can cooperate here at the council to complete what is needed in order for these projects to continue the country's benefits. There is another such matter that is also related to geographic matters, such as the harbors, and this is the domestic flight. Now the air bridge is here that's good, that's a big deal. There is also much discussion about international flights as public transportation, but the role of the international flight is not to be forgotten to move the service abroad and increase access to the general service, allowing experts to fly in the morning and return to their home in the evening. On the fact that the international flight is in progress, there are certain infrastructures that also stay in business like airports, e.g. The Western airport. As soon as public transportation takes off on the flight, there are so many other things that are lost. The number of passengers is always being looked, but it can't be done at all. Somehow we need to make sure these infrastructures are okay. The Western airport is, for example, one. Also, the exercise airport, which is extremely important under certain circumstances, can serve more airports. It's the southest place to store fuel for the Land Guard's helicopters, which is very important. He is a medical airport, with a patient flight every third day, and many who have difficulty driving in a car and drive long distances now need to apply for longer distances. So we need to make sure that in such locations as the Western Islands and other locations around the country, the aircraft may not be all full of passengers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u124	A respectable president. You're right. This is where a senator steps up, and there's a challenge to flying. In these times of flight, within the country, a reduction in the number of passengers has been studied, if I recall correctly, by about 50%. We've taken on the Council, the State, to ensure minimum services at the Covid time in the public transport system by supporting flight and making agreements with all those who have flown within the country on different levels. If we are going into such a situation now, we too need to look to it. We've had our eyes on this ball. I mentioned before the huge increases we have in the road system, with an increase of 31% between the years and the rejection rate of 41%, but the airports rise by 57%. Since 2016 the increase is 107%. So we've hit the palms of our hands, and we've done a lot this year, and we're going to do even more next year, build a planeload at Akureyri, and at Egls, and strengthen it here in Reykjavík, go to 100 million. K. Provided in maintenance at Reykjavík and many parts of the country. We can sort of count the most airfields in the world. In fact, an old project, an old parking lot outside Isafjörður, has been completed. That was the wait we had been waiting for for 40 years, and we did that this year. Thus, we look at things, and we have been working according to plans agreed by the General for transportation. A position has been made to promote and increase domestic flights, and that is what we have done at the Ministry, even though not everyone worked with us in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u125	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech and the discussion that has taken place. Of course, there could be many places to go, for under the minister there are diverse language groups, as the members of the council know, but I intend to try to keep myself very separate. So many people have gone into the business that turns toward the rural affairs I was about to come into on my own, so I'm going to go over for a little bit on this huge transport fund. It certainly is positive that we are now looking at a total of 59 billion of the budgets in transport and communication through financial contributions and when we consider the financial agenda in context. I would like to grab down here, by permission of the president, on page 24. 17 of the budget. It says: ▪ In turn, donations for innovation, research, and knowledge exchange have increased most or more than 70%, considering changes between budget 2017 and budget 2021. Transport and communications contributions have increased by more than 60% in real value at the same time and are removing about 36 p.m. ... tonext60mac. This is a 61% increase between 2017 and 2021. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister explains that it should then go down 32% in donations to 2025. This is shown on page 22. 7 in the financial program that total transport and communications contributions will be only 40 billion in 2025 compared to 58 billion in 2021. Today, a minister who is increasing his budget by 61% from 2017 goes back to about the same number as in 2017 in 2025. The highest. Minister would you please explain this to me?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u126	A respectable president. It's not that difficult to explain. We're spitting into our palms, and we've been doing it systematically. We temporarily set about 5.5 billion for three years in the 2018 financial program because of the extracurricular system, which, of course, we can't be drawing into the future. We set up a budget for the last 4 billion for four years on transport, which we were making use of the profit of land activation. Nor can they be drawn into any long future. It changes a lot in Covid times. In addition, we have been adding an investment campaign of 6.5 billion in transport during 2020. I guess they're about 11 billion in 2021, and I can't quite remember the numbers in front of 2022. Then it really goes out, and in 223 C.E., the government's investment is no longer an investment, and it would be unnatural for this government to be in an effort to make it appear in numbers for 2024 and 2025. However, I have heard men here today speaking of the wisdom to further improve in investments and transport ministers would be the first to agree on putting more money into it. I mentioned this to why. paritaprevir This year, Vilhjálmur Árnason was able to spit for nearly a billion, each cost a billion a year, 2022 and 2023, as well as probably less than a billion, in 2024. So it is the project of the next financial programme, the next government, to discuss how to draw a picture further into the future. But then, which I don't have time to say right now, we add the PPP, the cooperation work is going on over there. As a result, they build up the project during the period 2024 or 2025, totally unchanged. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u127	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is quite possible to conclude that it is not reasonable for the government to promise great projects here until 2024 and 2025, such as the Supreme Court. Minister says, and go. But the highest. However, in recent discussions, a minister spoke very strongly of the 900 billion performances in the pipes in the next 15 years. Not only are these kept away but we should either stick to what is practical, short - term, or look at the big picture. But it is fine to have a grasp of the government's understanding and a vision of the need for transport in some place that lay the foundation of the amount that was used to invest in 2017 and will be back in 2024 and 2025. This will only be injected if the current vision is in charge. The other thing I wanted to come in and ask the highest. Minister to the surface is the position of the interior flight. Granted, the so - called aerosol bridge has been introduced, but in my opinion, there is so much more that makes the international flight of about unbearable for those in that business. Just for a little example, the moment the Covid situation came up with all the cost and payment of airlines in Keflavík, as far as possible. But it wasn't about domestic flights. While there may be some communication between the Department of Transport and Istavia, it has been a far cry from which to look at the lack of understanding that operators and international flights have been working in terms of currency during the pandemic we live in today's world.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u128	A respectable president. No, that was the wrong conclusion. One senator said that men are accepting some lower level of construction. I explained in my last words, and let me do it again that what's going to work there is cooperation. In the years to come, they will find themselves at ease, and thus they will increase the construction and financial resources that are being made up. We are making sure that in the coming years, the projection will be very high, or the same level as we're heading for it to be 2020 and 2021, the next five, six years. If it will be a positive government, as positive and as powerful as the one present, I have no faith in anything but that in these years, 2023, 2024, and 2025, when it comes to it, I feel irresponsible to draw it up. I don't feel irresponsible, however, to mention 900 billion because there have been a deal, the capital contract, until 15 years of age, a process of transport has been adopted by 15 years of age, and six projects for cooperation that well - meaning, if you're reasonable in math, have worked together on 900 billion. It's 15 years old. But I will not manage it as a secretary of transportation until the next year, except for the rest of my life, we will see how the election goes. Then again, it's wrong. In fact, a senator's claim is, and I'm surprised he's doing it as the former secretary of transportation, that the Department of Transport has something to do with the science of Istavia. It's just not like that. Istavia is under the Ministry of Economic Affairs in regard to business. We have legal regulations and activities, but unfortunately not the whole package, which I think would be more reasonable. But, hey. A senator who was former assistant to the transport minister should have known. There has been no communications from the Department of Transport on how the management or managers of Istavia should conduct themselves in particular matters relating to their customers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u129	A respectable president. In short, I'll be explaining the financial programme for the 2021/2025 in terms of the topic fields that I hear as foreign and development co-Progressor: Nr. 4 Foreign Issues, and No. Thirty-five international development partners. These include international cooperation and relations with other countries, security and defences, foreign trade, civil service and national rights, and developing cooperation and humanitarian assistance. The development of the development of these two topics will be somewhat different in the period. On one hand, contributions to the topic area 4 are expected to drop from 13.6 billion dollars. of 12.2 billion. in the period, or about half a billion. However, in accordance with government policy, contributions to a subject area of 35, international development increase from $6.8 billion to nearly 8.9 billion, or more than 2 billion. In addition to maintenance, there are two explanations for the reduced donations available to foreign countries. At the same time, temporary projects will be completed. This is premeditation in the Council of Arctic, U.S. National Human Rights Agency, and the expansion of foreign services to prepare British exits from the European Union, as well as other smaller projects. In the present situation, it will be a real challenge for the foreign service to ensure the success of these projects and to deal with others ahead. These include Iceland's proficiency of the Council of Ministers and the need for interest in the passage of Britain from the EU. Many people do not have to comment on the importance of maintaining safe and successful relations with our most important country of commerce in the continent. This priority, however, is not in financial planning, so it will require a great deal of flexibility and perspective on foreign service. Finally, in the United States alone, Iceland's volunteer to the administration of UNESCO on behalf of the Northern countries in the year 2021-2023. The work of the foreign service has rarely been more tangible to Iceland than the past few months, especially to the thousands of people who have come back here with the Office of Civil Service and over 200 unpaid voters working for Iceland. The current pandemic has completely changed the situation of the Icelandic economy, and its restoration is a challenge. One of the most powerful demonstrations that governments can perform is to support an Icelandic export company more fully. This is in harmony with what our neighbors have put their focus on. During the next few days, the Ministry of State will have a formal plough based on the role model of civil service. By promoting the EIC network in EICs, exports could be provided with an even better service, which could restore increased exports and more efficient market work abroad. Since this project is being completed outside the budget, however, waiting must be carried out. One of the main challenges we face in security is related to multi-item threats and including online security issues. Among the things to consider is to ensure the safety of the marine cables linked to Iceland with Europe and North America. These cables form the lifeblood of our relationship with the outside world. Then I have appointed a special group of people who have the responsibility of making a comprehensive assessment of fiber optics with regard to national security. In addition, there is a need to consider reforming the harbor and the oil supply base of the Atlantic Community in Helga. It has to do with the Community support and supply transport programme, which is important for Iceland's defenses. A respectable president. I'm starting to get back to the 35th international development team. With active involvement in developing cooperation, Iceland endeavors to fulfill its duties as a responsible nation in the international community. Again, more than 2 billion dollars are being increased by contributions to the topic field. during the period. The increase is mainly explained by government policy of contributing to development cooperation as a proportion of gross national income increases from 0.30% in 2020 to 0.35% in 2022. The main projects of the topic field are two-sided. The multi-national development team in cooperation with national and international cooperation countries, international institutions and non-partic groups, human rights, equality and sustainable development is a guide in Iceland's development partnerships, in line with a vision of the UN's world's global aims for a sustainable world. Special emphasis is given on areas where Iceland's expertise is most effective in combating poverty. Then there has been the establishment of a new cooperation fund on employment projects that contribute to employment development and sustainable growth in poor developing countries, in line with the appeal. The main mission of the Icelandic foreign service will remain here to protect the interests of Iceland and Icelandic companies abroad. The Foreign Service is the national guardian for protection and security, foreign trade, and cultural affairs. Then it will be a more comprehensive interest in the more meaningful work and contribution to sustainable development and human rights. [[The president calls.]] At the end of the pandemic, there will be international cooperation, trade, and active support, which will once be the basis for the continuation of regional living and opportunities with what is going to be the best in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u130	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. I'd like to ask you at the beginning about two things. First of all, on the website of the Norwegian Sea Department, we have seen that the Norwegian and the British have signed a fishing framework. What is the situation with the Icelanders? I also read on some Norwegian website that it was expected that the Norwegian and the British would complete a free trade contract in December, and the second question is, What is the situation in Iceland? Are we in a position similar to Northmen? Are we about to finish it both in the next few days, weeks and months, as the Norwegians seem to be doing? Otherwise, I have to say, I don't feel like there's a lot of sound and image when you look at the financial bill and then the financial plan. It is widely spoken of as adding up and strengthening the export of the people, but at the same time cutting down and building up. It says, for example. in the aim of 3 of the budget bill, to ensure Icelandic enterprises as best access to foreign markets. On the other page, we find that we are getting together about 190 million. K. of this team, foreign state service and administration. So I ask the highest. Minister: How does drawing so much together in the export work and then planning to achieve the results mentioned? On page 18. The 161 budget bill shows that 32 million people in London are saved, but at the same time there are also others, including pages. 175 in the budget, that the stage will be an important step in establishing a successful future with the British. Once again, the sound and picture do not match. It's, for example. In Britain, funding is being reduced at the same time as people beat their chests and say that they are taking an important step in securing interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the queries. Only with respect to the Norwegians and the British. It should be kept in mind that they have not signed a greeting and access contract at all, so it is not. Then I'm pointing to the British and the Norwegian. The contract signed the other day is a frame deal that deals only with the work procedures, i.e. that they will have annual meetings to determine enteroculation and bioavailability. At the same time, decisions were decided to base on the ◯zonal attachment‡ method. The next step in Norway and the British must negotiate the dinner change and the bioavailability for the next year. In our dealings with the British, they are in good condition. You are not supposed to bring the time point when the conclusion is due, but the issue is in full effect. However, in the absence of sound and image, I have never understood why men always see a link between increased spending and success. If we do, I think we're on a bad road. I think it was very wise for us, though there was a lot of opposition at the council, to finish the National Institute of Iceland, which makes us more integrated our service between foreign service and Iceland. I think financial resources are much more useful, as well as making sure that the job life is in the driver's seat in cooperation. So it must be in my opinion, and that, of course, is our job. We can totally use all the money we receive, and if the General decides to place more money in the foreign service, they will be well spent. But always putting a link between increased spending and success doesn't work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u132	President. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Since the Norwegians have made a multiplicity deal on seabeds, have the Icelanders concluded a frame deal, as it happens? And have we not set aside any goals to determine when the British holiday contract should end, as the Norwegians seem to have? According to the page where I read the story, it was said that they ended it on December 31st. Her name is The Nordic Page, by permission of the President. Because of the highest. One minister says that there is no better outcome unless money is added on page. 175, 176, and 177 in the financial program, plan to achieve all these goals, and they need to be improved. To do the job, they need to add the possibility of the Ministry. I don't really know if you can read it differently than that, so that you don't have it. Can you add people within the current Ministry framework? If this is possible, there must be another cutting. Then we must ask: Where is the highest purpose? A minister cutting down to meet the challenges listed on three pages in his financial program? I'd like to say here, Mr. President, that in view of the situation we live in Iceland now, in view of the challenges of future foreign service in terms of obtaining foreign trade, as well as, of course, Iceland's office and management in the country, I need to increase those possibilities, - I need to get the Icelandic word over ◯resource's, sorry about the top. President - the opportunities, the instruments, and the tools the Ministry has to do their jobs. They won't be pulled out of some drawers at the Ministry. I don't think it's a lot of ambition in my schedule. The amount of money to the Ministry of State drops over the next four years. There is a lack of ambition to hold at least the resources in which they are and to add, so that all the beautiful, beautiful words can be handled as the highest. Minister puts in his plan. I know that the goal is kind and kind, but it needs to be realistic and practical. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't mean just talking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u133	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator when he says that it is not enough just to talk about things, it must be done. When I arrived at the Ministry of State, we went to a lot of work, which was called Foreign Service for the future, where all stakeholders could bring their ideas to reorganize us in the changed world. One thing we have done is enhance our flexibility. How does flexibility manifest itself? He'll be here, for example. ... tothe Civil Service project. A better organization helped us to cope. It was in the midst of the foreign service that did that work at that critical time. Another example of flexibility is increasing cooperation with the Iceland lab. I'll admit that I felt that the job was quite compartmental. Although much was done in both places, it was compartmental. Today, men are working hard together to achieve better results. I also set priorities in such a way that I did not take advantage of the money to open an office in Strasbourg, which I would rather use in the interest care of the EEA and Borgit. Then it would help if the ambassador's bill was completed, which will enhance the flexibility of the ministry. When I came in, 4 percent of the diplomat's diplomats and ideas were up here in the Senate Hall to have the third, and that's from the state of government. The opposition to the ambassador's bill is, in fact, the only thing that has united the government opposition to this council, and that's when I'm talking about Pirata, Convergence, Reunion and the Central Party. They want the present system. It'll be very nice to take that discussion. I'd like to say that for the Norwegians and the British, the Norwegians have a lot more time than we do for the council, and I can assure you. A senator says that we are fully working on a future trade agreement with the British. I hope we have an opportunity to discuss it thoroughly here in the next few days and weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u134	Mr. President. On this occasion, I have generally had a wording with a minister for developing cooperation. I'm going to skip it now, but I'd like to say, though I find it very difficult to accept that we're just going to reach half of the goals expected by the United Nations and we've agreed. I'm just gonna talk about climate issues. Mankind faces a very complex and varied challenge that requires close and efficient international cooperation, now the last pandemic that is being added to complex projects in other areas. The budget says, with President's permission: In climate change, the costs of action and inaction will increase as time passes. The economic impacts and costs of climate change can be significant. However, the cost is largely uncertain, and the effect can be unpredictable, sudden, and chain - sided. However, economic incentives and regulations over a period of financial planning can have much to say about these long - term effects. There the government accepts that economic incentives and regulations can have a powerful effect on the future. But the goals established by the Icelandic government in a new climate action programme are simply too weak, and greenhouse gas emissions are rising each year in the history of this government. Iceland has weaker goals than hers, e.g. Denmark and Norway and despite the beautiful promise of a green revolution or a green transformation, except Iceland's contributions to climate operations to less than 1% of GDP 2021, and the increase is negligible. That's why I'm asking the highest. A minister of whether he agrees with us in the United States that we need to take steps much larger than has been commanded and to set ambitious goals and funds for the seminar so that we can take the lead along with other northern countries. Would it not have been more fun if a minister could go to every find abroad and really stand equal to his colleagues?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u135	A respectable president. On the basis of the development team - Did I hear correctly? That's what I'm talking about. A senator trying to minimize our raising from 6.8 billion to 8.9 billion at the same time as we look to the deepest economic depression in Icelandic history? All this money we're borrowing. Otherwise, it will be our children who pay for it. At the same time, however, we are setting such priorities in developing cooperation. Should it be minimized? I think it's incredible. I haven't heard any criticism from anyone I've talked to in Iceland at foreign meetings when it comes to climate. On the contrary, people look to Iceland on climate issues. If all countries were like Iceland, this climate problem wouldn't be there. We are here with renewable energy of 801⁄290%. We are conveying that experience, including In developing cooperation, we are specifically referring to a person of the earth but also to the water mains. When it comes to fishing, we follow the lead in a sustainable fishing process. In case of a moment. A senator wants to know what questions I get as a representative of Iceland in foreign fields, and they want to learn from us. We are here with the Theocratic Ministry School, which hundreds of people have attended, and we are adding a little bit more strength to them. There people are determined to learn from what we have done for decades, and hopefully much more people will.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u136	Mr. President. I'm glad to add to the development team. But I've kept saying it since I came here that we should try to reach 0.7% and as long as we haven't caught it, I'm critical that we don't take big enough steps. V.E.G. Secretary said if all countries were like Iceland, there was no climate problem. But if all the peoples did eat, and walk about like the inhabitants of Isles, they would have 5.6 ground. Although we have the advantage in many areas, and have had the ability to use our geologist, that does not make it necessary for us to compensate for our segregation in this country. I feel sad if a minister is involved in that meaning, despite being told it in foreign meetings, that we are even doing more than we need and that everyone looks at us. I don't think it's a great ambition, and I know for sure that his government partners, in the other categories at least, do not share that view. Most of the budget is about protection and interest in the United States. I only found the EU once, but it's about the EEA deal, of course. I'd like to ask a minister for a wide interest evaluation, if he believes that the most important subjects in the future will bend to the defensive structure in cooperation with NATO and the United States, but less in connection with the ambitious EU climate programmes that will be approved later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u137	A respectable president. Let's go over to the climate. If we're going to simplify this, we're going to have a tremendous use but we're going to have renewable, environmental and sustainable energy. The reason we measure emissions to each individual is because, for example, this is the case. Aluminiums that are also in other parts of the world. [[Up front.]] - Why does he catch it? A senator in front of me? In other places, however, they are driven by other energy sources, which require much more pollution, so that the river is not further absorbed. That's why. Can we do better in the environment? Yeah. Should we do better in the environment? Yeah. I've written about it and talked about it, and I've been working on it since I got involved in politics and why. A senator knows that it wasn't quite yesterday that the man standing here started. There is no lack of ambition in this regard, but of course, we should talk about things as they are and speak out of fact. It is a mystery to me how to do so. A senator can link the EU to the defense. But it's a good thing that there are some who count hope in the EU, at least they can be found here in this room. They're hard to find elsewhere. The general rule is that people talk about the major problems facing the European Union. And there is no joy, these are our neighbors, and all we want is for them to succeed. But their prayers are very difficult, and it would be nice to discuss them here in the Hall of Congress. Maybe we'll get a chance to do that. Mr. President. Of course, looking out for security and protection is our national priority. Everyone must agree on that. If you consider the current arrangement to be in the Atlantic Community and a two - sided defense agreement with the United States, you need to make an alternative. [[The president calls.]] I do not know that such an option has been made to anyone in Icelandic politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u138	Mr. President. What the system does is a real function of the system. What is being done shows the real course. It is safe to say that the Ministry of State recently met a great deal of international waste and, during the time, a great need to bring people home. In view of the future, however, it is reasonable to assume that the Ministry's work will be more traditional and that mountain, including some of them, will be more routine. to support Iceland's state of international and international and global development through development. The second one seems to be fine if we completely ignore our commitments in that regard. But I have to ask about the interest guard. As you look at the goals and standards in a language field, it is interesting to see where and where you are not donated. Consequences over the period of foreign affairs include: Explains a reference to the institutions' algorithm, and that's hardly a lot of offense. The safety and protection issues are high, but they seem to be mainly successful in the maintenance that should be performed anyway. I don't quite understand how this can be considered a five-year plan. But more importantly, I don't quite understand where the offense is. Why are we playing defense in foreign affairs for the next 30 years? Where is dilation e.g. on Iceland's embassy? What plans are there to do more through international institutions than what we have already made? Where are the goals for increased cooperation in climate and peace? Where do we cooperate with other international institutions? Just seriously, where's the ambition? Not least, given the highest recommendations. The 2017 minister of state has asked me that interesting times lie ahead in Britain for Bfenit and a great opportunity for our relationship with the British, at last I ask: " Where is that opportunity?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u139	A respectable president. I'm just not exactly in the same place as some senators here, i.e. that if financial contributions are not greatly increased, there is no ambition. That's some really bad news. I know why. A member of the Southern District, and I know that there has been a lot of ambition in agriculture, but in recent decades the government's contributions have dropped tremendously in agriculture. Does this mean that people are losing all ambition in the land? [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator doesn't want me to use this problem, I'm fine. Many others can be taken. That thought doesn't work. On top of it, I'd like to point it out. The council says we're going through one of the deepest recesses ever, and if people are going to show up here and say that there's nothing they can do but put more money in that group, let's just give up right away, which we're not going to do, that's a very long way from. We place tremendous ambitions on all the issues we focus on. It may have passed by. A senator, it's a pleasure to discuss it specifically, that we went to special policies after Covid began. We tried to learn from what was good and how we could benefit from what happened. One thing we can use is, for example, More telecommunications, it calls for less money, but we'll be able to use them better. What we give special attention to, and that's why we're setting up business watch because of it. A senator referred to civil service, the big task when we were helping people come home, and that is their example. Then we're putting together a government agency, a embassy, in a manner similar to what we did with civil service, and then the Iceland Office, which was better established by the government in its resistance to government opposition. Foreign Service won't sell anything, not one fish. But we can open a door, and working with a job, we can help expand exporting prices. That's one of the big priorities right now. I can use any extra money, it doesn't have anything to do with it, but the main thing is to make the most of the money we have and set a level and reach our goals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u140	Mr. President. Well, there's nothing new at all. Secretary of State will not answer questions directly addressed to him, and perhaps they will not be expected to change. It's not just about the money, it's about how well they're used. It's about the goals that come out, and there's no big deal. The deepest crisis must be answered with the most ambitious course of action. Not elimination, not surrender. There have been perturbing questions all day to some of the highest levels. Ministers and objective responses typically. But this is the first time today that I see members of a number of different categories, the Central Party, the Union, the Pirates, and I expect more people to appear and agree that ambition is part of a lawsuit. Let's be absolutely clear. Foreign affairs seem to be of no importance to this government when you look to the initiative and to the results. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I have no further questions for the highest. Minister, he'd probably not answer them anyway, except by shifts and confusion, but never by foreign politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u141	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has big words, but they do not contain much. In case of a moment. A senator will not be able to argue that there are no goals and plans. I mentioned the Covid report, twelve specific suggestions. There were 400 people all over society, in business, who came to Iceland's export policy. That's what I'm talking about. A senator to say that these people who worked together to establish an ambitious program on how we can expand our exportability, just being outcasts, and that this work is ambitious? That's what I'm talking about. A senator is saying. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator may think he is hitting political cones in some raw skin game, but he is criticizing what has been stressed, to get members, not just in the Ministry, but in the whole society, who are directing policy participants in important business practices, because of this. A senator specifically discussed foreign transactions. We can talk about the Theocratic School. We can talk about the emphasis on developing cooperation, e.g. on human - minded evolutionary policies. A member of the board of directors, including the U.S. To. That's what I'm talking about. A senator trying to minimize that work and its goals?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u142	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u143	Not only will it be released but it will not be held. I listened to what I heard. Senator, everyone listened to him. A senator, and if he isn't trying to downplay all the things that all these parties came to, he has to say so. [[The president calls.]] He spoke very much down to that work and made it extremely low, and I am sorry that I was hoping that there would be a broad, political reconciliation and solidarity in these things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u144	V.E.G. President. The Treaty specifically requires international leadership of human rights, especially the sex rights and rights of gay people, and the climate and environment. Iceland stresses active participation in the work of international institutions, but the situation today is that the support of certain countries to important institutions has been reduced or even disappeared. For example, the established organizations of the United Nations have conditions like those of the United Nations. During this year, the 75th anniversary of the United Nations is under attack. These are institutions set up to ensure the well - being of people, to promote balance and peace. This is serious. In this environment, a strong Norwegian partnership is extremely important, even more important than ever, since the common values and infrastructure of the North countries are democracy, human rights, equality, and justice. International cooperation will continue to be one of the cornerstones of Iceland's foreign policy with the government's economic and climate aims under control and a new vision of the northern countries as the most sustainable and integrated region of the world in 2030. According to this, I would like an explanation from a minister of the lawsuit's budget line, which tells me that he leaves at least 14 billion dollars. 2021 down to over 12 billion 2025. Despite the potential for this reduction to be explained, including that our prehumanity in the Council of North Pole will complete, and with the reduction of the growth fund in the EEA, the minister believes that this decline reflects an increased emphasis on climate and national security? Are we able to fulfill our responsibilities without adding money? I think now, for example. to the Norwegian team where there is increased emphasis on climate, but since there is no increasing cooperation with the government, the situation in the Northern Council is that there is considerable reduction in donations for cultural work that is very sad, with large amounts of normic cultural cooperation what holds the grassland together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for what she had to offer. Hv. A senator picks up things that I think we can be very happy with. And it's not because we're beating ourselves on our own but because we're e.g. to read what has been said about our progress in the Council of Human Rights. Not long ago, an article from the former Secretary of State of Costa Rica came to mind, as he said that other North countries had to do what Iceland had to do when it came to their seat on the Human Rights Council. I certainly agree. A senator when she's talking about Norwegian cooperation. We can also be very happy that after Thordi of Stoltenberg, it is our man Björn Bjarnason who writes the next report. I am confident that any Icelander has played the same role in international work as the former minister. It shows what confidence we have in this cooperation. Our will is clear, and I hope the North countries have the good fortune to work together as much as possible. When we arrived at the Civil Service project, we were extremely successful, but in many ways we could do better. When it comes to whether more money is needed, we can always use more money, that's just the way it is. We, however, cannot help but look at our situation. When we're talking about next year's budget, we're borrowing money for the future. To me it's just that way, and I might be the only one about it, that we need to make more of the money we have now. We do not want our children to get into debt because we have failed to fulfill that role.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u146	A respectable president. It is very difficult to talk about all these important tasks when we are in the deepest economic lows in history. But we need to talk, so that's what we're here. The response to Covid among the highest executives in the North countries was in complete conflict with the official Council's policy of being the world's most integrated region. The response to Covid showed that it is not. Then I don't mean the cooperation of the Northern Civil Service, it was a good example, but I may have rather a first reaction. Prior to the outbreak of Covid, the Northern Council adopted a community security policy. A National Council wants more coronary equipment so that disaster can be dealt with with with with with with great shame without doubt about roles and responsibilities. Reports and reports on community security show that Finland, Sweden and Norway work together in various ways, but Denmark, as well as the Dutch and Greenland countries, are out of control. The minister mentioned Björn Bjarnason's report, a member of the North American Defense and Security Association, focusing on Internet threats and multi-item threats. Network security activities have been performed for several years within the frame of NORDEFCO. In recent years the Norwegian countries have built up Internet security forces. Its purpose is to prevent and deal with national network attacks. Today these groups represent common courses and exercises and exchange of state reports on threats and dangers in the norse environment. With increased cooperation, countries can improve their collective ability to deal with threats and dangers in the network. I'd like to hear a minister's opinion on this Council of the North Council's policies on increasing community security cooperation and whether he considers financial planning to reflect an increased emphasis on the norological cooperation of defense and security. Does Ministers think it would benefit us if we were to work more closely with the North countries on the Internet security scene? And finally, if Ministers don't think it's time for Iceland to become a member of the Institute in Helsinki, the centre of the multitasking threat, but Iceland alone of the Northerns is not involved in that institution? Will a minister take advantage of it and make room for our participation in financial programs?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u147	A respectable president. Hv. A senator offers a pleasant but challenging question. I agree with what. A senator of the northern countries was to do better because we want to view ourselves as the world's most integrated territory. I didn't have any trouble with the way things started, especially when it came to the Covid epidemic. I also believe that we can do better when it comes to handling these matters. Like what? A senator referred to the civil service project as a model. Even so, there are many things that we can do much better to become the world's most integrated territory. You're absolutely right. Senator. I hope we can take a report from Björn Bjarnason's son and discuss it here and there. The Foreign Affairs Committee, many of which are included. Hv. A senator draws out the Internet security issues, but they are extremely important. So much is certain that we're going to do something about it on our own, I'm not going to belittle it, but we have to work on it with our alliances. Hv. A senator named the Helsinki mansion, and I've also looked at the Tallinn mansion, even though it's not in the north, and I feel that it is a weakness that we are not participants in that partnership. I feel somehow that you don't have to explain why working with our allies is a priority when it comes to Internet security. I've said it in this chair before that I feel like we're way too blue when it comes to this threat. I can agree with that with what. A senator here is doing a job, and I hope we have a good discussion here at the council and hopefully some relief on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u148	A respectable president. At the top. Ministers can agree on many things, not all, but also others. That there's no difference between raising money in lawsuits and increasing the quality of work, working, I can totally agree with that. On the other hand, when we face such challenges as this, when we have to build up our foreign service, strengthen our bond, open our ways, and make them more payable than ever. Therefore, the importance of the EEA Convention will never be too often stressed. I see that on page 18. 176 is referred to as the practicality of business and priorities for specific projects. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it's not clear that we're setting priorities for the EEA deal. We are to do everything in order to protect the important international agreement that we are involved in and that has had an amazingly important effect on improved lifestyles in Iceland and an open door, not only for business but also for students, etc. We know that. It says on page 18. 176: So, unchanged is a real challenge in following up the priorities that require much attention, such as funding for the EEA Convention... In view of the fact that I don't necessarily think this government has been speaking up the EEA contract, although, certainly, a minister has done it every now and then, I want it completely: Is it not absolutely priorive to the EEA Convention? That's the first question. Then there's the second question. In view of all of this, I want to know whether he agrees with both the Morning Press and the Central Party in their criticism of the EEA. It's at the top. A minister under the criticism of the Central Party and the Morning Press of our important international agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u149	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech and for the inquiry. First, just the priorities. I agree with everything. A senator says that priorities need to be established. I indicated that we started certain Covid jobs, as it were. Who was she? Yes, learning from what happened in Covid. How did the ministry work in that situation? What can we learn from this? You see, we have to learn from this. Some finally went up, like communication through video meetings, etc. has been talking about for decades. That's tremendously good, and we want to keep going. We also stressed the need to help open doors and help Icelandic companies increase export prices by selling in foreign markets. This is an example of priorities. For the EEA, the work is done there. Ever since I came in here, I've put tremendous emphasis on promoting the protection of EU interest. That's why Brussel is now represented by every consultant. So did the EEA report, and we're following it now because there's not enough plans and suggestions to set up, we have to follow through on that. But this isn't just foreign service. The EEA contract is linked to all the Ministry and needs more people to do so and, of course, do so if you want to do well. I can't go after any open questions. The ones who spoke down the EEA contract when it started and since I got involved in politics were EU lovers. Since then, others have taken up what they want to get out of the EEA community. But I think it's quite right what was set up at the time, that if the EEA deal wasn't there, it's a hard way to find another way. The EU guards, those who spoke down the EEA Convention, had clear targets, they spoke so that men would be rushed into the EU as a result. Although I trust to wake up. A senator will not be there, so I still see examples of those who want us to walk in the EU.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u150	A respectable president. I reiterate my question: is the highest. Secretary agrees with the Central Party's criticism of the EEA Convention? I thought the Minister spoke at the end like a United-man talking about Liverpool, but that's another story. I just want to know if it's the highest. Minister agrees with any criticism that may include: The Central Party has submitted to the EEA Convention. Secondly, I want to, and then I come all the other stuff, to know how it's going to get British to admit Iceland as a beach fishing nation in a macroil. I think it's very important that we get information about it, because especially in these times, such as the highest. A minister well describes, we need to protect our interests in Iceland, our business interests as well as our economic and social interests. And that's when foreign services are important. How's it going to get the British to recognize Iceland as a beach fishing nation in a mackerel? This would be of great importance to us Icelanders, especially in view of the fact that the British are accepting a commission from the European Union for the years, and it seems to be a pretty good conversation between foreign ministers and British. How many times does it have. Ministers are discussing mackerel and Iceland's status as a beach fishing nation with the British Minister? I suppose a minister would have kept that perspective and the interests of the Icelanders in their conversations with the British, so it would be good to be informed. Third, is Iceland's situation stronger by negotiating with the British than the EU, according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u151	A respectable president. Again, the question is, "What?" A senator to see if I agree with the Central Party. That's a question I'll never really get that way. A senator needs to forgive even if I have a little problem with getting my feet in that material. That's a very open question. I think I've made quite a deal with the Central Committee on the EEA Convention. Usually when people do, they don't agree, and I don't know that the Central Party changed its stand. And if they don't agree with me, I don't agree with them. I hope that answers a question. Senator. With regard to the British, problems about fishing and such factors have not yet occurred. I would very likely have had some of these digestions if they had come up. What I've been most concerned about with British Ministers when it comes to fishing for cooperation between Iceland and Britain. They can learn much from us in that area. They had spent decades in the European Union and caught only 25% of their jurisdictional fish. They are now for the first time in a long time to regain control of their jurisdiction. [[Up front.]] Imagine if we Icelanders were in this position, were in the European Union and could only catch 25% of our own fish. It's just reality. We've been discussing cooperation in various fields of fishing, and I'm not celebrating until the finish line. I'm not celebrating until we've signed. However, I have tried to converse with the EU, including for implementation of the customs contracts and such. It's been a very difficult, respectable president, and I've had no success as far as it goes, if it answers the question of why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u152	A respectable president. This is a matter for foreign and development co-worker. I'd like to start by asking him about the EEA deal. There's a lot of good in him. There are many things that are all right, and then there are bad things. But I would like to receive information from him because EFTA has now issued a final warning to the Icelanders in an alleged violation of the agreement that the Agency has had for eight years of treatment, requiring that the laws and directives of the EU be made more legal and superior legal proceedings. Here again, the EEA contract is damaged and will cross the constitution if this is true. I want to be clear, don't you think that's clear? Isn't it time we cut the umbilical cord and just tell the European Union a clean, clean set of laws? I would also say that maybe at the same time we should send heartfelt sympathy to the British, but still rejoices with them in escaping the terrible monster of the EU. You just see the best thing about what we were talking about here, about 25% control over the fishing grounds. It simply shows that they can be God's living beauty when they finally escape. But I'd like to know if it's not entirely clear that Icelandic law is valid instead of EEA.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u153	A respectable president. Of course, because of the EEA deal, I think we've been very lucky at the time where we were, we were in EFTA. There were then many other countries in EFTA that did not intend to enter the EU at that time, e.g. Sweden, Finland, Austria, and, of course, Switzerland, thought that because of its neutrality policies, it could never go to the European Union. So there was a lot of equality between EFTA and the EU at the time when men settled down. Therefore, we are the EFTA countries with our own surveillance facility, our own court, this two-sided system to the European Union, although, of course, it's much bigger. For these things, we made these rules, including The so-called accounting 35, at the beginning and there's no way they've been doing anything about the EEA Convention that there's a huge change. What we've been pointing out in these cases - it's nothing for the first time and it's not the last time that such things happen, it's quite often that ESA follows some things, and then we need to see what the outcome is. But life is always a matter of choice. If we are not going to be in the EU, which is, of course, a choice, then we need to ask: What do we want? I mentioned earlier that the ones who fought against the EEA treaties when it was formed were Europeans. Why? They felt that the only way we could go to the EU is 500 million people market, even for business purposes. It would be difficult for us to maintain such a wide range of employment as it would be if we did not have access to that market. But that's just the way life is. I'd love to be able to draw up all the things I wanted them to, but there's something in it, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u154	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of state answers, and I agree that we're supposed to stay on the EEA deal, but we're supposed to keep it intact. We're not supposed to let them rule us, we're not supposed to let them rule us. But I'm going to go somewhere else. In the past, clean energy was spoken of. V.E.G. Secretary of State said he'd got a lot of attention on the fact that Iceland has pure energy. What, then, does he say about the fact that we are selling this clean energy? We're selling it to those who burn oil, use nuclear energy. Does he think that's normal? Is he asked about how much we're selling and why we're promoting the idea that the environment could get a stamp from us that they use pure energy when they don't have it? I'd also like to ask if it came up to you if it's not time for us to set up passport surveillance on the border. I'm sure we know who's coming to the country, especially at this time when foreign gangs seem to be taking their place here. As a result, this must be a minimum requirement. I know Danir recorded this, and Swedes have temporarily adopted border control. I don't know if they still do. But I had to show a passport between Germany and Denmark. So I'm just asking, why don't we have a border security here so people need to know when they get to the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u155	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again for the inquiry. First of all, if it's about somebody controlling us. We'd like to keep us out of harm's way in the EEA. Then we use our institutions and say, Our companies are being violated. It is not in harmony with the rules we have agreed on. So they will not both be released and held. If we don't have this, it's obvious that if an Icelandic company could not compete for equality in Europe, they would go to Europe. Of course, the same is true of other things. There are plenty of people, especially older people, who like to, for example. live in hot European countries, having access to health care and so on. Of course, that's very good. If it's against us, we'll say, you're breaking our common rules. Of course, we need to be consistent. However, the matter is more complex and more legal than anything else. Of course, we are always determined to be princely rulers, and we must always guard our interests. The independence struggle is endless. It's never over. In case of a moment. A senator is making constant notes, and I must admit that I don't quite understand it. It doesn't come to me, but as others do, I look at it and say: Things aren't exactly what they should be. I think we should be very careful about selling it somewhere else, so that it's not any deeper in the year. As for passport control, point it out. A senator in Schengen, and he must discuss it with a minister of justice who will handle it. [[The president calls.]] In fact, I've never been able to go between European countries or come to the country without showing passports, at any rate, to keep it on hand, which is another matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u156	Mr. President. Even though there's a jury at the highest level. Only 2% of the budgets, or about that, are sometimes spoken of as being an bottomless sum of money, and somehow it is the easiest thing in the world to get balance in the state's affairs by slaughtering in foreign service. I think that in the last few years, we have seen quite a fine example of the importance of the ministry and the activity there has been. V.E.G. A minister named the Civil Service, an office that I doubt has known about any human child a year ago, but it turned out to be the survival of many when necessary. This shows us so closely what this small growth of our foreign service, with suitable staff working there, can do in times of trial. I'd like to ask the Minister, part of it because he has experience as an ex-committee, only to help me understand the requirement. It's a 2% stipulation of these classes, as in the general program. But how does it work, e.g. Secret 4 of foreign affairs where about half of the expenses are tied up in a multinational business? Does this mean, then, that 2% of straddlers outweigh any particular nuclear element in foreign service, such as civil service? How is that, for example? in the development team, which is most likely part of the transfer between Iceland and international organisations, is the requirement for the increase being applied? [[The president calls.]] And the question arises: What is it, if it does not lead to their improvement in the schemes you would expect to be its purpose? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u157	Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is true that these are less than 2% of total fees, of which it is 1.75, 1.8%. Thank you. A senator for running civilian services only. I think he's right about people not knowing what she is. On the other hand, many have taken advantage of her ministry. Naturally, people may not be carrying them in a public square when they, or someone close to them, encounter some problems. It is good to draw attention to the fact that more than 200 people are working for an Icelandic country free of charge. I have stressed the need to draw closer to these people and to invite them to our home to introduce what is going on and to show them a little appreciation. These people, the jubilants, throughout the world, were invaluable to us in this situation. Then we'll start up a new department called home ambassadors. She uses the members at home and then serves as ambassadors to certain states, even though they are located on the Red Sea Path. It was very useful. Hv. A senator entered something very good. People are always trying to put a frame around the big government business, not just Icelanders, but others too. We took very successful steps in terms of government finance, financial laws, and so forth. Then, you try to move on, and you are always looking for ways to do things more effectively. This may not exactly apply to the factors. A senator referred specifically, as when we agree on making certain donations for development cooperation. We make a deal, for example. to make contributions in the EFTA building fund, and so on, and there is no straddler in it. [[The president calls.]] However, this requires that the manager try to look at things as effectively as possible. Whether this is the best way or the better way, then it can be discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u158	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to the target and standards of the section to address safety and protection. A minister may be remembering that in 149, the legislator asked for the presence of an army in the area of security at Keflavourfield. It turned out that when the answer was written, there had been a daily military presence on the field for three years. The financial agenda now aims that the presence of an alliance in this country is maintained this year and up to 2025 and is expected to be longer. The presence of an alliance in this country should last 365 days a year. The number of participants rolling over the year is 1,500, up to 500 toward the end of the period, for the number of beds that are also the object of this program. I'd like to ask the minister, "When is the military base?" Lasting presence as government official aims, although the troops run, even though they are not always the same individuals, even though there are sometimes fewer and sometimes more - when do we start calling it an open military base? And has this discussion occurred anywhere other than in financial planning? I would not have thought that it was the right way to talk as much.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u159	A respectable president. I think the easiest part is to answer a question. A senator like this: If a base is opened in Iceland, it won't go unnoticed. A senator rather than any other Icelander. This would not happen under the cover of night, and taking such a decision, which, of course, has not been discussed and actually not been discussed, would take a very long time. The increased presence as a dog. A senator refers to nothing. It is not that people in the Atlantic Union have nothing more to do with money than to spend it on these items. It's just not like that. There's a reason why this was far less important. And there's a reason that things later grew. And we know exactly who she is. The rise in Russia's presence in this region has called for an increased presence on the side of the Atlantic Community, and we are participants in the Atlantic Alliance. Iceland's defenses are based on being in the Atlantic Community and the two-sided defense agreements against the United States. Then, too, we work in security together with the northern countries, which have increased greatly. It's not good, it's because of the conditions we live in. We view these matters so often as routine security and protection, but we've been discussing it only earlier today that there are also many more threats and we need to take them seriously. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u160	Mr. President. We see here the developments we've seen over the past few years that are a reduction in foreign spending. In the next four years, contributions to foreign affairs are now being offered up to up to 10◯11%. The financial policy shows that the budget for the seminar is mainly reduced because donations are reduced to the EEA's building fund and for projects that run their course in time. What's positive here is that Iceland's preeminence in the Council of Europe is one of the main reasons for the promotion of spending as well as the increase of contract funded donations for multi-ethnic work. As chairman of the European Parliament of Iceland, I rejoice that at last we have a permanent land under our feet when it comes to leading us in this extremely important human rights institution to which we are involved. At first glance, it is positive to note that there will be an increase in cost of development over the next four years, or about 1.3% at present, but this increase requires detailed explanation for the increase in donations for development issues to go directly to the New York, Geneva, Paris, and Rome staff committee. In other words, money at Iceland's headquarters in the world's most expensive cities are taken from the financial resources of developing cooperation instead of being taken from the financial resources of the State Ministry that I would have thought was normal. That's what I believe is a fairly peculiar emphasis on the handling of funds. Mr. President. I am impressed by the fact that the budget for development is directly carried out on drive - to - date tasks that are designed to benefit the least of our brothers and sisters, not in a delivery office. So I want to go to the highest. Secretary will explain. Then I want to hear from the highest. Minister of State on how funds will be spent in promoting the protection of Iceland's interest and Icelandic views within the EEA, as required in the Treaty. I'm sorry, I haven't seen to this point specific increases related to that important interest guard. I trust the Minister that money is not being pinched in this necessary interest care, which must be fully maintained in order to pursue the highest interests. Minister, a free trade deal with the United States. [[The president calls.]] It's like today's situation in the best possible fall of a bird in a forest. [[The president calls.]] The European Union is now the most important part of the world, and it needs to be a guard and a much better way to work in that area as well as in the interests of our Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I didn't quite understand everything that came out here. The cost of the EEA contract is 2.5 billion a year. There is no earmark in an alleged vacation contract with the United States. There's a little difference, because of that. In some way, a senator was equalizing this. We're not just talking about supporting EEA interest, we're doing it. Today, the representatives of every council in Brussels.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u162	Is that enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u163	When people applied for involvement in the European Union, this was taken out. This was not done until I stressed it, and in the two governments I've been in, it was okay to do so. I don't think we're going to do enough for protection. I don't think that's possible. As soon as someone thinks he's done enough for a interests guard, he's in a bad place. But we do much more than we have done before, and we have not only spoken of it but also done it. Of course, with regard to development, those who are working on them are in the Red Sea as well as around the world. That is a very long way from making all the increase into office offices, a very long way away. But there is only one way to my mind, and that is to do it according to the international standards that exist. I don't see any other way. I don't think it would be very good if we were discussing these contributions and doing these things in any way other than the nations we compare with us. That would not make the discussion easier. We only live by the rules and international standards that exist. They know something like that. The discussion about the FAC, what? A senator knows very well as a member of the committee at work. The Foreign Affairs Commission said that when they changed the rules, we took it into account. [[The president calls.]] I'm very good with that, a respectable president, to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u164	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for the answers. I might have liked more ambition when it comes to our interestkeeping on the EEA deal. But I would like to go along with the climate issues that are on the table of the Ministry of State like other advisers. How's the top? The minister of foreign affairs realizes that this largest project of our time and generation, when it comes to the importance of international cooperation on climate levels, will be more extensive than at present? It is unfortunate to see this class as badly cared for by the Ministry of State and, unfortunately, in the financial program. I wish I could have the highest. The minister of the State is interested in my putting the climate above in his focus, in order to form it has been very interested in furthering cooperation with Britain and the United States. I'd like to encourage the highest. Secretary of State to share with us other people how Iceland's foreign policy can become more and more apocalyptic about climate. The foreign policy climate is also an enormously important response to Covid, as part of the resistance and subsequent procrastination. Then there's the defence and security issue that's been cut off in this discussion. V.E.G. A minister must also clearly explain the exact amount of money for maintenance projects due to the presence of a military force, as noted in the speech of young men. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son, has become a daily defender in the next four years. How much is the highest? A minister is able to collect taxpayers' pockets for building in military service and in the area of defense over the next four years? I have to admit, I'm having trouble seeing it exactly so I'm asking the highest. A minister to explain the contributions to his defense and policy and his vision and how it rhymes with policy and vision of the political party that leads the government to the highest degree. Minister is part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u165	A respectable president. I don't know exactly what to do. A senator is referring to the fact that there is a lack of ambition for the EEA. You see, I don't think any ambition is just talking, but I don't do it. I can come here and say, "I've done it already. Instead, the budget of the past few years takes place in policy and follow-up. However, I do not intend to say that it has been perfected because I feel that something is wrong when someone says that he has achieved perfection in something. You can always do better than I can compare myself with anyone, and you can make an extremely good comparison when it comes to the protection in the EEA. Then I'm not talking about what I'm gonna do. I'm talking about what I've done. With regard to climate, a respectable president, they're everywhere in our foreign policy. Northbound, the Norwegian team. What's one of the key elements of Björn Bjarnason's report? It's the climate. Never do you get critical of foreign fields because Iceland and I are not putting enough emphasis on climate. We're about to double the budget of green climate between 2019 and 2021. Double. So I don't know exactly what to do with it. A senator is going into this regard. [[Up front.]] I'm just a little sharp. True, it takes some time for a member of the body to read the talks I have given internationally.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u166	I've read them all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u167	In case of a moment. A senator has read all of them, and she knows completely about my climate focus when I speak for Iceland. There is an increase in security and protection about 44 million next year. Those expenses have gone up for reasons that I studied with intensity. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. But when it comes to security and defence, it's not that we have much of it, as if I've gone over here at the council. [[The president calls.]] We've taken a special discussion about it, I did it to why. þm. Páll Magnúson, and I sure would like to discuss security and defense at any time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u168	President. I'm a simple man, as we have often seen, who likes to be in the big lines. As far as I'm concerned, I think it'll end more than diving into some financial groups and asking for dollars and money. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on nothing less than Iceland's foreign policy and perhaps not least, although I know it's not at the top of the topic area. Minister, to national security. At least I know it's the best. A minister who handles the nation's foreign affairs comes very close. One of the lessons I learn from Mr. 2020 is that the best investment in national security includes actively participating in international institutions in the civil field, in health field - I'm talking about the World Health Organization, the United Nations, normic cooperation, etc. - more than in this out-of-date, old-fashioned thought that's riding too many houses around the world, i.e. military cooperation. I could add online security and other things. Aren't we making it to that point, Mr. President, that we need to take advantage of the opportunity when life throws it in our faces to reevaluate fire - age and out - of - date ideals and look up again at things as in this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u169	A respectable president. I'm getting something into the national security business. I'm sitting in the chair of the National Security Council. I can agree with what. A senator on the importance of participating in the work of international institutions, and I think we would agree that we should look at the security issues in a broad context. We look forward to threats that no one spoke of 10 to 15 years ago, except perhaps those who saw the longest in advance, which are, for example, the number of years. Network security. It is of utmost importance, if we are going to succeed, that we will work with our allies when it comes to them, but they all do so in one way or another, whether the North or the states of the Atlantic Alliance, under the hat of defense, because it's working together. The government of all nations has the obligation to protect the lives and freedom of its citizens. I wish the world was completely different than it is, but it's just like this. We can say that what we learn from history is that we cannot learn from history. You don't have to see a lot of people who are threatened by what they really are afraid of. We have seen in Europe in recent years that the border has been changed. [[The president calls.]] We cannot pretend that it is not happening, and we cannot invite the Icelandic nation to be defenseless. It's just not possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u170	President. Somehow, I was hoping to the highest. A minister would not be so heavy on the cold war drugs that he could take himself up a little with me and get over these things, that I think, out - of - date, old - fashioned thinking. But I'm fine with that. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, especially in the light of what he introduced, his role as vice president of the National Security Council, whether he cannot join with me and declare that he is ready to review that policy, although only in the sense that the proportions there would be only different from what they are today. If Iceland's national security policy is examined, there's one after the other that speaks of the Atlantic Alliance, a national defence agreement from 1951 and a Norwegian team, and it talks about security and defense, defenses, equipment, and I don't know what or what. You sometimes feel as if you are reading a history book, building north or whatever it is, but not necessarily a description of Iceland's modern status, where I think the emphasis should be on civil cooperation around the world, on Internet security, not to be spoken of health, the United Nations, etc. I know all of this is to be found in the highest foreign policy. Minister, he's spoken for everything I'm referring to. I'm just checking to see if I can't pull the top. Minister only with me, if only in the focus of national security policy. She's a scary warlike woman, I'll tell you. It is fearfully trapped in - and here I speak as a historian - debates and ideas that were all about in politics once, i.e. ... warbots. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u171	A respectable president. What I'm happy with is what I'm happy with. A senator's view of security is broad. That's exactly where we'll get together. And again: It is a defense when it comes to e.g. Network security. If we look to the extent that we have become these systems, and become even more dependent, and how easy it is for those with knowledge and ability to inflict harm on all, we must be fully awake to it. I've got it. I've got it. A senator there. In case of a moment. A senator can promise me, which he cannot, that it will never again be so that men wage warfare against other nations that we can reevaluate things. We've been lucky over the years, and that's good. We have no such story. Let's just look at our friends, the Baltic States, all of whom I encourage. Imagine if Iceland had been one of those states, between Estonia and Latvia. We'd have woken up one day because of what. A senator knows the story, we the Soviets had arrived. One or two years later, the Germans had arrived. Then the Soviets came back. These nations were in exactly the same place that we were in 1918, and they are impressed with our cousins and friends, and I agree with them. We're lucky we didn't get into this, but it's also for certain reasons. It's because we've been in the world's strongest defense alliance. No one is trusting to get into that situation, and hopefully he will never be. [[The president calls.]] I hope we see disarmament, hopefully we'll see a more peaceful time, but we can't take a risk with the security of the Icelandic and Icelandic people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u172	A respectable president. This brief talk that I give here will not allow us to do a detailed study of the subjects under the Ministry of Social Affairs, even if we add two minutes to the end. [[...two of them.]] However, I'm going to try to go over most of the things, and I'm going to say in the beginning that during this terms, I've been able to add to the social security issues. In general, the increase has become quite prominent in individual affairs, and I'm going to review it below. Before I do, too, I want to say that it is quite clear that in the circumstances that we now live, it is extremely important that we succeed in protecting vulnerable groups in the community, and I am very pleased that it is the government to do. In this financial program, we see in the next year's bill that even in spite of this temporary downturn, which is actually getting late, it is clear that the government will protect vulnerable groups. But as this situation persists, it becomes a bigger challenge to do so, as we have discussed in the current financial debate. I'm going to try to go over all the language fields that I hear in this bill. First, it is the matter of disability and the affairs of disabled people. The total amount of money leading up to this class has increased since 2017 from 62 billion to less than 75 billion in 2020. It is expected that it will continue to increase over time and will be up to 87 billion in 2025. That, then, is a 25 billion increase from 2018. It is true that there is an increase in individuals, but there is also an increase in the seminary. In the case of the elderly, the same is true. In 2018, 74 billion were involved in this class. In the current year of 2020, the figure is about 85 billion, according to this year's budget. It is expected that it will continue to increase over time and will reach 101 billion in 2025. Understandably, it is largely due to demographic evolution, but it is still increasing. From 2018/2025, over a seven - year period, an increase of 25 billion is expected. Regarding other lawsuits, there are family issues that include child reforms, obstetrics, family support, children, health benefits, accidents, and refugees'issues. During 2018, 33 billion went to this stage, each containing all these lawsuits. Now, in 2020, it is 42 billion, and it is assumed that by the end of the financial program we address here, it will reach a total of 48 billion, an increase of 15 billion in the period. It is clear that there are tens of millions of increase in funding in these areas. Then we will discuss the series of lawsuits that may be the most important issue of whether we will be able to defend it, i.e. Work market and unemployment. In 2018, 20 billion ran in order to do this, and it is assumed that by 2021, 64 billion are running for unemployment. It is not expected in 2025 C.E. time that this will be down to 43 billion. It is still 20 billion more than in 2018. It presents the greatest challenge of whether we will succeed in defending the previously mentioned other team of vulnerable groups; elderly, disability-employees, families, and other important things, i.e. whether we can get the job back up. That is the most important and most challenging thing in the years to come, all the work related to it. I intend to use my second two minutes to discuss it specifically, because of that. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson mentioned it earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u173	V.E.G. President. In chapter 271, improvements in social security law, disability, are as follows: ▪ More emphasis will be given to people's ability to operate. There will be an emphasis on the ability to make self - advancement, including with your own work progress, instead of looking only for impairment due to illness or disability. It is important to consider that the potential for disability in the labour market and to draw out the strengths of individuals for active participation in society, including the labour market. Part of this is the development and introduction of a multidisciplinary evaluation based on physical, psychological and social risk factors instead of medical factors. This is in harmony with the development that has taken place in our neighboring countries. That's what I'd like to say. A minister may not have talked about putting this skills aside, reviewing the part, and starting out by advertising certain jobs that people can apply for, making their jobs first, and not making things difficult, and making sure that people are able to apply for them. This can be done through a work agency that has agencies in many parts of the country, and the government may therefore follow through with a good example. In fact, we hear it's better in the private sector to hire people with impaired skills.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u174	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this suggestion. In recent years, we have been providing funds to build up such jobs and have set up an increasing amount of money during this ultimatum period. But it is absolutely true that better could be done in this regard. There is concern that the government is not strong enough in this, and I agree with it. Senator. The Ministry of finance has been in charge of that matter and has been implementing proposals that are, unfortunately, not fully carried out. We've been in a conversation with the Corporate Community during this most ideal period to take steps to establish a work-by-adversity assessment. The objective was to present some sort of legal adjustment in terms of which men could get along. It is clear that one of the factors that Covid has affected was that work. It was not completed in the spring council. It's one of the kind that I assumed would be difficult to talk to here at the General in this election year. Therefore, we have been considering other ways of not requiring major legal adjustments, but the steps would be one way to promote the thinking and ideologies of this financial program that have been agreed on at council. Let's hope we find out soon enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u175	V.E.G. President. I continue in the same section of the strategy, which shows that one of the goals is to support even more fully the population of those who receive a rehabilitation pension. This is a section on goals and standards. It says that work rehabilitation should be emphasised in order to reduce the incidence of disability and give more people the opportunity to participate in a workforce. At the same time, the period of rehabilitation would be extended from three years to five. That's all right. Now I have heard that students and especially university students are able to attend only three phases about, instead of doing a full study. The prostitute in this matter is that a person may be accepted at a university by enrolling in a full - time course. It's unnecessary, isn't it? Is this the most important thing you've ever seen? A minister can work on, in a Regulation, or need more? I'd like to ask the highest, too. A minister would be interested in further opening the possibility of those in the rehabilitation business of attending both the college and the college, although I realize that the workforce is responsible for the workforce, not necessarily because of education. But all of this goes hand-to-hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u176	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions and speculations. The government is raising contributions to rehabilitation of about 1.5 billion. I'll take a look at those tips as valid. A senator was involved in the interaction of study and rehabilitation. My experience has been that there are many things that seem very unfair - and I'm not answering that this is not possible. A senator is saying - when considering some form of friendship, but when it begins to look at it better, there are other reasons why things are the way they are. As soon as I say there's no rule that this is possible, there may be some other evidence behind it, and it will be acknowledged here to the highest degree. A minister doesn't have them in his hands right now. However, the tip has arrived, and we will consider it. I think we all agree on the importance of rehabilitation so that people can get back on the road. We want people to get back on course and an important part of it is to be able to re-create, even in other professions and areas that are possible for the individual despite the lack of ability, and thus can become good and antisocial and become taxpayers, not to run into disability, as we are seeing to an excessive degree. So I agree with what. A senator needs to be flexible there, and we're going to look at this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u177	Mr. President. Unemployment in this country has never increased as fast as it is heading for the deepest crisis in a century. The largest increases are among young people as well as peripheral groups, but also women who seem to be the worst out of this condition. Women have different jobs than men. They are more likely to be in any kind of care and service work than they are in road and construction projects. Now it's the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Child Services as well. 20% unemployment, possibly 25% next year, requires creative thinking. We have work to do first. Work, work, work is our job. We need to create jobs all over the country. The proposals of the government, which were taken care of by so - called testimonials, were primarily considered opportunities to encourage students who have come on unemployment record. So I want to ask the highest. Minister to see if it is possible for him to have a special campaign throughout the country, as was done in the years after a crash, to enable those who are on unemployment by supporting a business to hire employees, that treat companies all over the country, not just localized in some small country, but throughout the country, to support companies who can use basic non-employment benefits for a person's salary for 6How12 months, and thus encourage recruiting people to work in the work, to get people involved and on the payroll. Everyone heals, the jobseekers, companies, governments and society all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u178	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these speculations and questions. And I say, yes, the only way we can protect all the other issues that the government gives us is to make it through the workforce. I have doubts about the possibility of creating tens of thousands of jobs and not allowing us to blow life back into the industry that's only at zero right now. We were making sure that Icelanda's contractions were 97%. We have simply overinvented much in our tourism, and it is urgent that we get it started that will speed up again because in this brief period of time other jobs will not be able to accept all these people. We will need creative thinking in some way to open the country, to open up our tourism, and to get it started as soon as possible. About a question why. A senator on the flexibility of the unemployment reform system, whether companies and institutions can get unemployment benefits, then I wrote under the Regulation a change two weeks ago, that I think, where it was just opened up to make that flexibility possible, and it is not bound to certain areas of the country. The change in the Regulation is now in preparation and when you have a conversation with a certain area. In areas where unemployment exceeds 6%, unfortunately, a large area in the country, this regulation change allows people to work and maintain benefits if the person has been unemployed for one month. This one month is required and the company has not been laying down employees. [[The president calls.]] So we've made a requested change, and it's important to introduce it better and then go on to special initiatives with individual companies, employment groups, or individual rural or national parts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u179	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer and urged him to learn more about the way that had gone after a crash, where the person was not able to recover, but rather, it is to encourage the companies who, of course, must not pay under tax persons. But I'm afraid it's the highest. The government did not trust itself to raise the basic employment benefits, not even temporarily as we did in the United States. Poverty is a political decision, chief. Minister, I would like to ask: How is it that there is no evidence of meeting the thousands of families who are now looking forward to poverty, families who have lost their livelihood? Then, too, I would like to ask about the money - related period extended by law last September to the thousands who had already fallen to basics. V.E.G. The secretary of finance told Silfrina at the RUSA this weekend that it had been a mistake, so that I witness directly to him, in the legal capacity not to guarantee the harmony. I'll take it from here, tops. Minister of Social Affairs, that the thousands of people who have come to the core, about 240,000 after taxes, get an extension of income exchange and access to this system? Then I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to biopayers from the social security system that have fallen substantially back from the minimum in recent years. If sensibilities had gone up like the pay sheet, pensions wouldn't be more than $250,000. It's almost 300,000 bucks. That's a little more than 40,000 bucks. It's under the roof. Social security ministers are going to leave this most vulnerable group of people in the country behind, leaving pensions with a price tag instead of a pay card number, and that's why this group keeps falling back from the standard of living tens of thousands each month?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u180	A respectable president. The government has never ruled out anything about the prolongation of the income-related period or anything else that leads to unemployment. We simply keep considering these things, always evaluating when and how we can respond. But we also need to look at things in the context of the government budget, in the context of how much money we have and how wise it is to borrow, how long this time will be, and other factors need to be weighed. Because I was going over it earlier, and just to figure out the numbers, I, in this context, suggested that there were 20 billion in 2018, now 64 billion, and we assume that it is living out all of this. The situation in a job market is serious, and a major project is: How can we get as many people back to work? How can we get the tourism back on track? I reviewed my opening speech that the total amount of money that flows to the social security system has nearly doubled in the last five to seven years. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Senator. This has been done, and to them, as it were. A senator mentioned. The big project there is also related to the work. In the budget bill to be submitted, we continue to assume that improvements are related to an index and they will rise. I realize that we're not talking about a pay card, we're talking about a consumer price index, but if we're going to defend the position of these groups, as is done in this financial program, the big job is that we're going to make money here. [[The president calls.]] That's why unemployment is the foundation. It can't be self-sustaining to run a government fund with a tilt. But the government assumes it because it intends to protect these groups. [[The president calls.]] That's a fact. It shows the data. It shows the numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u181	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister of Social Affairs is discussing the share loans that have been incredibly well-examined. I feel it in Southnes that a lot of people are asking about the offer that will probably be there, while 20% of the 400 that are being supported a year will be in the country. The Regulation that set up the confidentiality puzzle today is stated in Article 14. The following conditions for maximum size of apartments: that a two-bedroom apartment is not more than 90 m2 and the maximum price is 44 million. K. On the Ásbourg, we have apartments after counter-improved, magnificent, which is approximately 5 m2 greater than estimated practical for 14 grams. An apartment on Ásbek costs 27 million. K. or 17 million less than the maximum price for such an apartment. The square price is about that. 2,200,000,300,000 k. When there are low income prices to buy an apartment that costs between 400,000 and 650,000 dollars. on square meters. The rules on the consultation puzzle can't be such a box-shaped thing. A respectable president. The four-bedrooms may be 100◯110 m2, with a maximum of 52 million. K. On the Ásbride, the apartments amount to 1,237 m2 per 33,237 million. K. approximately 15 million. K. less than the maximum of the new apartments. So I ask the minister, in view of the ideals of the law, that sharing loans on the premises would be offered and inexpensive and good choice, whether or not we need to correct the Regulation and to have it more flexible to citizens who want to buy new or use and rebuild houses in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u182	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these speculations and inquiries. The basic thought behind the share loan is two. It is on the one hand to secure young people's funds to get into their own homes, money from public funds. The other smell of share loans is increasing the supply at an economic setting. It has been hard to believe that government housing procedures were only on the demand side but not on the forward side. There's an operation that's also responsible for the forward side. We find great concern in our job affairs because it is simply freezing when it comes to building new facilities. They're finishing what's being built, they're finishing what's in the pipes, but there's nothing new about going on. This operation, the share loan, should work into it alongside the demand side. On the other hand, there is also a flexibility toward the land, and then I come to it. A senator rolled up here, i.e. Whether sharing loans are allowed to be used, much reused or rebuilt in the country. It is addressed in the law but also in the Regulation and in the indication. Then the senator will consider it. Today, the rule went on a consultation course, and she made a recommendation to get viewpoints, get comments. The person standing here is not so square that he is not ready to listen to comments. I'm not going to answer it right here, and now whether it is possible to take into account the exact comments as well. A senator offered, but I encourage as many as possible to give counsel on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u183	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for that good answer. I think the thought that came from the law of share loans needs to be realized. The minister said that he could not, of course, guarantee it here and now that the four - centimetres that appear in the Regulation will be exactly as it is shown today. I think the most important thing in all of this is that the owner's interests are basically in the head. If there's a substantial difference in housing that meets every requirement, measures all the guidelines and everything we're asking for in the law, and was much discussed at the Committee and the Senate when they were put up and done, then I think we have to take the best interests of the buyers. We must then face it by making up for this Regulation in a judicial way. As a minister spoke so well of, a respectable president, it is, of course, presented for consultation. I know men in this Ministry, like the Minister, aren't box-shaped. They will consider the points presented here and the comments that will be made. Other than that, I just want to reiterate that I've been surprised to learn that these loans have been incredibly successful. Not only have I had a lot of conversations but I hear people say that there are an amazing number of people who want to take advantage of this possibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u184	A respectable president. I want to reiterate the fact that this Regulation is being put in a technical check so that a tip can be submitted. It's a big deal, it's a big system change, and as the council handled it, the Regulation included some pretty big decisions about how to process the process. So I thought it was important that it not be signed unless there was an open, clear debate about it. I also made a commitment to the hearing of the matter during the last days of the council, but I found that my steps and challenges arose because of the misunderstanding that the Minister was asking for a ruling warrant, that it should take a warning and that everyone could comment on it. According to this, I also want to say that it is important to bear in mind that the application to the country's settlements is designed to restore housing, but it is in the best interests of those who want to make their own housing that more is based on practical housing. Even if we politicians are under pressure, in that this applies to all possessions, not just new possessions, I mean here in the capital area, it is important that we remember that the interests of young people are that an economic home is built. Hence, the dual role of these laws must never be lost. One way is to ensure that young people get to their own accommodations, the other is to ensure increased availability of new housing. If we were to open it completely, so that all housing could be valid, this would be just a demand gate operation, not on the forward side. I find it extremely important to be maintained, and especially now, because this is exactly the kind of tool we can use at a time when the construction market is dropping, as has been the case in recent recessions in Iceland. Now is the opportunity to use this tool to encourage the building of more housing, and then we may be able to slow down only when the market is full. This twofold role must be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u185	President. I have to admit, I don't quite understand how the top is. Minister of Social Affairs can stand shameless in the pant of the Generals and present their starving policy to the stage. I don't think it's a shame. I think it's amazing at the highest. A minister can accept the shame of unemployment in the largest unemployment crisis we have ever experienced. We know at least 12,000 people are already on the edge of written unemployment benefits, benefits we also know will not be enough for alimony. Everyone except the voodoo economists of the Independence Party and the Professional Association also know that this government's hunger policy against unemployment crisis will only increase economic growth, prolong the crisis, increase the level of inequities and increase poverty. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: How does he justify this foolishness? I'd like to state that I'm not asking to hear about the prolongation of income connections. Besides, I don't want to hear about my index on a show. I'm asking the highest. Minister: How can he justify this for the 12,000 people who are already on the edge of a recovery - and use a lot of these people on children, the highest. Children's Ministers - and have financial obligations and a black future? How's the top? Ministers to justify this inheritanceless starving policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u186	A respectable president. Our major challenge is to find employment for as many people as possible. The grand task is to bring the tourism back into operation. As I told you earlier, we found out today that Icelanda's flight had fallen by 97%. And when a nation's largest industry is not reduced to zero, then it is effective. The government has not ruled out anything. We brought you the prolongation of the income-related period. Well, at least not at all. A senator said I wasn't allowed to say it here in a pit, so it's a great thing, so who's in charge of what he says, so I say, "We're here with a prolongation of the income-related period." We haven't ruled out anything or anything about any more changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u187	I'm asking about...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u188	However, when unemployment rates fail to be supplied at 20 billion in 2018 and to perhaps 80 billion in the current year, when budgets expected 36 billion are clearly clear, we need to examine all of this in a large context. The government has not excluded one or more of this stuff, but the big job is to get things going, get things going again here. And if anything is, it should be our job to be able to ensure that the overall resources resulting in unemployment gains are allowed to land faster than we anticipated. [[Up front.]] But have we ruled out any further action? No.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u189	A respectable president. Department of Social Affairs says they haven't excluded anything yet. But this is the budget of the government that tells us, Congress and nation what government policy is, not what government policy may be later, but now and for the next five years. [[Hear, hear.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Social Affairs whether he feels that it is justifiable for those who rely on public contributions to receive the same increase as the lowest wage on the biographer agreements. Simple yes or no-questioning. Another question to the highest. Social Minister: Is the decrease in personality discounts expected to parallel the changes in the tax system during the New Year's season affecting the voluntary spending of pensions? Then I'd like to ask the highest. Children's Minister of Childbearing Policy, but in support of this policy, there is a plan to validate the third optional United Nations Children's Convention, to the highest degree. Children's minister has claimed to be supportive. There is also something that the council must accept after all. Does this mean that the Minister of Child Affairs is going to promote the finally release of a commission and a vote for a council, despite the protest of the Ministry of State in the past during this election period?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u190	A respectable president. These were a lot of questions, but I'm going to do my best to answer them. [[Up front.]] I figured there were four of them. First, regarding policy now, because of that. A senator entered it, I'd like to say that as any government in power must bear in mind in these days that it must be ready for flexibility. We are always working to get our business back on track. Precautions were under way yesterday and again today. This document was printed a month ago, or one and a half months ago. [[Up front.]] When we are living in times like these, the change is so rapid that it is of utmost importance that we are ready to respond at each time. That's what I was trying to say earlier when I said, the government is ready to respond. It has also been the lawgiver, and it is vital in these times that it is. But the job is to get the job started. In terms of the rise in the social security system, they have been associated with a consumer price index. [[Up front.]] Then I'd like to say, "This is the conclusion of the budget bill." There's going to be raising in there, and they've been working on it so far, and they're going to continue. But as the economy moves, it is extremely important that growths continue to rise in there. But if we don't get the unemployment down, if we don't get the economy started, I'd say, "There's a serious risk in this program that we're facing another reality about it. With Iceland's Childfriendship, I'm a great sponsor and I'm on my way to the council in the winter, and a plan of action that's in progress. There I think it is important to look at all the procedures presented in the current policy, including the optional book. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think events in the last few weeks have shown its importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u191	A respectable president. In the deep economic crisis we are sailing through, it is vital that we build on a global economy that has been promoted in the policy of this government and is reflected in a financial program. Under these difficult conditions, it is urgent to defend the interests of the government, and it has been the guide of the government and also the final life agreements made by the administration of the State. Many fine things have been set free from the stocks during this terms of low income, children, the elderly, and the poor, and the unemployed. These include increase in income-related unemployment benefits, social support in housing, job outings in school, child - welfare benefits, and a large decrease in disability-employment rates, and a marked decrease in the payment of the elderly and the disability of the health system. The contributions to this group of paintings have indeed increased by 18 billion during this most excellent time period. Recently, a bill was adopted for special social support to the elderly in palaces, and efforts are being made in the construction of nurses around the country, and large amounts of money have been spent in mental health, including the rest of the world. increased access to psychology services. All of this is a matter of well - being, which is of great importance to protect the ideals and positions of vulnerable groups in this pandemic, which are difficult for the nation's economy for an indefinite period of time. At the beginning of the terms of the season, a system modification of the microenergy pension system was proposed to 4 billion per year, which has not fully returned to those most in need of financial support. I know that the group on this subject has not reached a common conclusion. The sensibility of disability has been part of that task force. But I would like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it not the time to place this material into the hands of those whom they were assigned to take action and to present suggestions on its contents?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u192	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this speech and an excellent list of many of the projects the government has done, and a fine review of the work position in the social security network changes when it comes to dealing with disability workers and the government's policy of taking some kind of professional assessment or promoting increased participation in a labour market and the challenges that have been involved in the system. You're absolutely right. A senator estimated 4 billion on this project, and the result was in part that the budget was set down last year, including to reduce the decline in the system and to other factors that the thought was going to be used when the system change is under way. The remaining 1.1 billion remain unmoved within the framework. He's in a financial program presented here. The thought was, as if I traced against what. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagledot, last spring council, making some legal adjustments to make this possible, but it didn't come along, just because of Covid. We've had a conversation with the Microcreature Community about how we employ this 1.1 billion. Because the conversation isn't over and we're working on the update, and I'm expecting this to be introduced in the near future, let's say. So it could go into effect and stay in the next year if the budget is approved with this $1.1 billion continued inside, which I now expect.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u193	A respectable president. I encourage ministers only to impress these matters. A financial program shows that the government wants to contribute to measures that may reduce the elimination from studies as well as to support non-employable youths in school or training, but they are certainly at high risk of social isolation. Elimination from studies is high in Iceland and can significantly affect future employment opportunities. In our bill, we agreed on a plan called study that enables jobseekers to start studies and gain full unemployment benefits for one term that set specific conditions for updrafts and contributions to promote education in the country. Today, the workforce is permitted to strengthen study counsel for one school year for two busy years, as the jobseeker continues to study after the first term. The aim of such work - market operations is to prevent deduction and at the same time ensure increased and more intensive school services. Thus, the support of unemployed for study and re-education to meet tremendous changes in the work market for the next few years with a so - called fourth industrial revolution is never more urgent than at present and that people do not become permanent unemployment. Now I want to ask the highest. Minister: Can he agree with me that it is important to consider whether this arrangement that started in the summer, a study is an opportunity, in some way or in a similar way? In the long run, it will lead to the future of promoting workers in the rapidly developing technology that, if successful, changes in jobs and jobs but will reduce the cost of unemployment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u194	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good review of these provisions, study is an opportunity, and the importance of learning techniques as part of the most planned employment agency. She has the task and role when a person loses his job to find a different way of life. Of course, learning to go and educate yourself in another area or to add or something can have a significant effect. The choice of education, the choice of where the individual is headed, is always working closely with the labour oce because the project is to restore the individual to a workforce. We now have funds to care for this year and the next year. A labour agency is funded to buy the relevant education from a educational institution. I think it would be very good if we could do this permanently. But this, of course, depends on the financial resources we place in the seminary because the employment agency needs financial resources to buy the relevant services from educational institutions. I think it would be very positive if this could become permanent. Still, we have already provided funds needed for the Labour Department to buy 3,000 of these ways of learning, and we have to make sure that they can fill them, and in what ways they may be different because of the different circumstances in which people differ, problems that vary, opportunities, and opportunities. I'd be the first to support the fact that we'd add this if necessary. So I say we do what we do. A senator would agree on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u195	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss the increase in income-related unemployment improvements here and I'm curious that those who first lost jobs due to the Covid pandemic in March of this year were not allowed to enjoy the extension when it was announced at the end of August. These bits, which we at exorbitant and other government groups have repeatedly pointed out that it is likely to make mistakes, seems to have been a real success in this matter. It must simply be a mistake that the number of people who lose their jobs from March through August does not fall under the same hat as those who follow. It is not until the August/September monthly session that the government announces this extension, although it has been repeatedly noted that it is wise to do so in the light of the situation. V.E.G. A social minister responded. Helga Vala Helgadóttir, a member of the United States council, earlier and explained that the cost was high. Now I understand the challenges that governments face regarding the enormous cost and mismanagement that we face. But this could not be because if this was the case, it would have been a long way, not to have it extended for a month or two or a half or two months to ensure what is right and what is fair in this situation: that everyone will have the same government help in this situation, and this will not be about a date. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is the danger of taking these small steps, irreprehensible steps. [[The president calls.]] Here, we must face mistakes that will be corrected. That's all I believe.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u196	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question and speculation. I'd like to say what I've said before: There's nothing out of these materials. All primecasts are submitted to the General Assembly and visited by the welfare committee, and it is clear that there are always things that need to be considered again and more clearly than eyes in that subject. [[Up front.]] But this is something that we are looking at, and we will continue to examine. However, taking the cost into account is important. This year, there are now some 80 billion unemployment improvements expected to reach over 20 billion. We've never paid as much on unemployment as in the current year at the same time as I think the government has done so little about unemployed. Of course, that is not because these are enormous sums of money. But can we do better? I'm sure we can do better. Surely, we can always do more and more in these respects, and the person standing here is absolutely ready to do so. I'd decide what to do with it. A senator said he was talking about the pieces of the government. That's where I disagree completely. We must be willing to respond, respond quickly, and otherwise is unwise when we do not know what is beyond the corner, the last 12 months we have not known. When we put the partial improvements on, we were talking about the possibility that this could be a very short time, and tourism could start in August, September. We were then talking about, when we opened up, that perhaps we could get a good winter. How can it be in this situation besides that it's gonna be some kind of butthole when you don't know what this virus will pick up tomorrow or the other? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u197	Mr. President. I'm grateful for the answer and the fact that it was not a call for more money but for more fairness. However, domino acids in the part-change process were intertwined. There was a lack of harmony, and it's only right, and it's fair to fix it. I'd like to come to the end to the top. Ministers a little surprised and mention a lawsuit that doesn't hear under his office, but underneath, there's certainly some sort of person I'd like to talk about. I'd like to talk about gay people being left out when it comes to the funding of this government and the financial agenda. Under the umbrella of queer people, there are children, there are youths, disabled people, older citizens, refugees, refugees, and refugees. These are people that must be concerned with the Minister of Social Affairs. I have to say that in these days, when the Coalition '78 have recently accomplished priceless work for these groups and received special acceptance of the Children's Lands, I feel quite impervious that there is a budget and financial programme to be submitted to the State's contribution to these organizations. Now I'm well aware that it's been less than two years since the jury left the Department of Social Affairs at the Ministry of Presidency and some good works have been done in the press. But I'm talking about the exact operation. I'm asking the highest. Minister of Social Affairs whether he can use himself in this matter and whether he can think of some form of cross-cutting approach in the affairs of gay people, since here are many lawsuits below, the number of people I listed. They're academics, they're health issues, they're rights. Is it time that this category of language be replaced by the respect he deserves and at least That this insolence will not be tolerated? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u198	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I agree with what. A senator on the importance of the organization and the importance of their service, especially in times such as these. Although this does not directly represent the Minister of Social Affairs, because changes were made so that this lawsuit was transferred to the Ministry of Presidency, we have been in good contact and cooperation with the organization. As a result, we were able to make a small financial agreement with the organization extra in the middle of the Covid family in particular for children and young people in Covid's time because there was increased stress there as well as elsewhere. I just have to admit that I saw in the news, like others, that there was a time to close the organization's office. The director and director of the organization have requested a meeting with me, and this meeting request has come just today. I was checking the phone on what time it was, 16,28 seemed to me, two and a half hours ago. I had kind of thought about having that meeting with them, and I'm really not much more involved in this than I was in the news. Without having it, there is a promise to be made. A senator or anyone else, I want a chance to get a little more involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u199	A respectable president. The increase in social security benefits seems to be an enormously complex phenomenon. Earlier today, I had a conversation with the highest. The financial secretary and after the amazing calculations I received from him, I no longer understand who figures what and how an increase of 3.6% will be achieved by the next year or by a 3.5% increase that was the 1st of January. If given correctly, the increase should be 7% now according to the pay number. But the highest. The secretary of finance said that this was calculated according to a special pay sheet they'd found out over the next year, and that's why it's 3.6%. But then I cut by the top. Social and child - care minister said just before that it was based on a consumer credit number. What's right? Is it the consumer salary or that amazing pay number at the highest. Secretary of finance? It did not work out because the budget clearly states that the pay card is expected to increase by 5.2% next year. That's one more number, and I'm going to say, "I have the highest number." Ministers see these calculations, or doesn't anyone know what it's like? Is the method that's used there just some lucky thing to do? And then I'd also like to ask if he's ready to make sure, once and for all, that the right work, the decent presentation, is calculated for this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u200	A respectable president. Hv. A senator ponders over the percentages. I'm going to start by answering the second question on the right process. I will not belittle the fact that the person who is struggling with situations in Icelandic society does not have many opportunities to support himself. I don't talk about the same person with children or rent markets, etc. And I've traced it here, that funding for the whole party has been growing greatly in recent years. The vast majority of the disability products of disabled persons are payable to microenergy pensioners, which have grown since 2018. At that time, there were over 60 billion in the seminary. According to the next year's plan, this figure is expected to reach 80 billion. There's a 20 billion increase. And in the timetable it is expected to reach 86 billion and has increased by 25 billion over the seven years. The numbers are worried, and that's why we've been very interested in it, and I know that why. A senator knows this, trying to take action to reduce the incidence of disability. When the billions are examined, they do not buy something for what goes on in total pay to the party. However, the increase in progress makes any small increase in total resources so much for the future if we are not able to reduce incidences, especially for young people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u201	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I respect him for his pity, and I understand very well that he did not want to answer my first question about the percentages and all. It's because it's completely incomprehensible and I don't think there's any answer to this, it's so much bullshit. Yeah, we put a lot of money in this group, but we really do really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, Is it taken in? Or the increase? I don't think that in this financial program it even takes about 12 billion dollars. save at MPA services. At the same time, a rural society with forced action against a disabled person is just forced action. He takes counsel and authority, puts him in a nursing home, also charges him, and just tries to get him off the flat just because he can't pay in both places. For my part, I say, what's going on in this group of languages? Is there no sound policy with this government? Is there simply a policy that people whose lives are dirty or have queued after meals should only harden their jams, that they are the only broad banks in society, the only people who don't have the right to live? We know that no one lives at 220,000 bucks. Payback to pay rent, pay food, medicine. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u202	A respectable president. In my answer before, I didn't say that when we calculate the rise in improvement, we are able to consider consumer calculus if it is higher than the financial account of the Ministry. This is clear and should not be a basis for misunderstanding. However, I would like to say that there have been changes in both the elderly and the microenergy pensioners, in their time and in the present government, to reduce the decline in the system. However, within the comparison of the numbers mentioned above, the total pay for the party's case falls from 60 billion to 87 billion on schedule to 2025. Then I want to reiterate that our big project, when we're taking hundreds of billions of loans to cover the loss of state funds because we have a lot of unemployment and tax returns, is to defend the position of their groups. A senator talks about it. After the 2009 economic collapse, we saw that these groups were under attack. That's not done in this program. The same procedure as done is not proposed. And I'm very pleased with that. But at the same time, we have to admit that in order to defend it, the government fund is about to start taking hundreds of billions of loans in the years to come. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u203	Mr. President. There are a number of things to take into a very large chapter that is at the top of it. Minister of this plan. I'd like to mention what may be one of the biggest projects of this winter at the Minister, which is the prolongation of the womb. This is a long, timely, urgent operation. But what I'd like to bring up here is something I'm a little worried about, which is what happens to my maternity. Of course, it is the school, but it rarely starts at the age of 12 months, where the maternity will go away. Thus, the bridge of the gap between maternity school and prenatal school is something that needs to be solved between the state and the rural society that runs the nursery. What I'm worried about is where that is. I would like to ask the Minister about who in the government has that ball with him today because this change was made in the highest goals. A minister from a prior financial programme to aim for the development of a member of the Department of Social Affairs, since the subject of pre-school education did not agree with his language under the Precinct. But when we turned over to the academy at the highest school. Education is not about this but about the education of preschool teachers and other factors directly involved in the State, not on the complex agreements that need to take place between local members and state on how the bridges are built between maternity school and nursery. I'd like to ask a minister to address these concerns by telling me that there's someone with this ball at the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u204	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for such speculation. Before answering his speculations, I would like to say that I am incredibly pleased with the steps that the government has taken in the womb during this term. We've raised payments for maternity vacations. We've been extending our birthworm for 12 months and, in fact, restoring the birthworm system, I mean. And we can see that the money that is going to flow to the birthworm, to a country's family, is nearly doubled in the present government, from about 10 billion to some 20 billion grossly calculated. So it is an enormous source of satisfaction. It is now the bill of consultation, which leads to the birth canal and is expected to enter the council in this month or at the beginning of the next month. Whatever it is. In fact, a member of the United States makes up his mind about the country's rural communities. We've had discussions with our rural communities all this terms through their entire organization, the Union of Icelandic rural society. A survey in which they have made it says that more than a part of a community is available for a high school service that has bridged the gap, but only a smaller proportion of children live on that bridge. We can read about this: Largely the small and medium-sized rural areas that have been building this gap, but larger rural communities have not. The question is, When a greater part of the country's rural society has created this bridge, should we not put pressure on the other part that hasn't done it, doing the same? You see, we have two administrative points in this country, the rest of our societies and the State. The Kingdom has taken an amazingly good - looking step in this terms. I have felt that many societies have ambitions to do the same, and I have said that we simply need to put pressure on them and encourage them with every means possible to make them take that step. But it is not in the power of the Ministers to do so, that is in the hands of the countryside.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u205	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. In terms of pressure from 12 months of age on rural society to meet the birthworm, it may interfere with the idea that we are talking about changes that are going into effect at this time of the year. So there's got to be something to do with the babies born next year when they become 12 months old. It is a question of whether the pressure alone is adequate, or whether the sleeves need to be boarded and done. I would like my second question to ask the Minister for a little child support and particularly the goal of the plan to increase the simplicity and efficiency of the child - welfare system presented there. I'd like to wonder if there's any ambition or ambition, because we know that, all too long, the child - welfare system has been falling apart. The report Children's Improvements in Iceland is most closely identified compared to the rest of the North countries that BSRB had Dr. Kolbeinn Stefánsson work, showing that in this country there is a decline lower in the income ladder than in other parts of the North countries. so that child damages do not come in with the strength that they need to do. This is reflected in the fact that most of the past few years have not even been able to produce the money available to the system in financial laws. Speaking of a system to be rebuilt, a respectable president. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Rather than, by permission of a president, increasing the simplicity and efficiency of the child reform system, don't you just have to revise it from the ground and initiate it with the labour market partners?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u206	A respectable president. The right to divorce the hysteria, I would like to say, with the families at the point of not covering the gap now, because not all of the rural communities have reached out for 12 months, they are the government and the present government. A senator once supported, including to these acts, yet they have taken enormous, handsome steps in this matter. It has taken the step that we have extended our birth certificate. She has taken the step that we have raised payments for maternity clinics, and she is now taking steps to bring up a system of changes in the hysteria that will be met with some comments that have been made in recent years. At least I'm very pleased. We've actually rebuilt the birthworm system, I mean. While the child's benefits are in this area, they're in the President's decision on the hands of a financial minister. So even if it's a government, the financial text comes from the secretary of finance, which brings it in. Although the entire population is approved by the entire government, it has been at the Ministry of finance in recent years. On the other hand, I agree with what. A senator may have reason to take up the child - reform system and jump it in the same way that we have now fixed the birthworm system, making it more concerned about family members. But that project will have to wait for a new elected period. I would be happy to be the minister who took it and the child - reform system the same way that the birthworm system has been taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u207	A respectable president. Icelandic school systems have worked hard in the time of the crown virus. Events in recent months have tested the strength of the resourceful staff who have kept the school going during difficult times. All should realize that the long - term well - being of students, social functioning, and well - being of them need to be first of all as we look ahead to the next year. In many parts of the world, children have not been in school for six months, and many fear lasting effects on communities around the world. Thus, the success of the students at all school levels must be of utmost importance to us who are sitting here at the council. I'd like to mention that we've been doing a lot of work under my feet. We have increased from year to year in order to respond to the situation that exists, with a 11% rise to the seminary. A respectable president. Educationism to the year 2030 will lead to the future. Its objective is to ensure that children and young people are highly educated and highly educated. The government will finance a multi-country operation to enforce educational policy. First, high school and university make a total of over a billion additional ones in 2021 to respond to a huge increase in education. I think it's extremely important that we have the education system as open as we can see. This is a time of great challenges, and if we're going to let our community come up and accept the big changes that are taking place, I think it's the most successful thing for our community to do that our education system is open and we're supporting students. We also support the people who are planning to change and improve their skills in the Icelandic labour market. I'd also like to mention, a respectable president, that the economic shock we are experiencing these days shows us black in white that we have to increase the variety and innovation in all ways to create new jobs. In this regard, the nation's main interest is to promote the education, technology, and industry. A global strategy has been initiated with the aim of increasing interest in working and technical education and increasing the number of people with such education in the labour market. It is important that students who complete the study in the fields of work and trade gain recognition of their university education and thus may be able to expand their skills and gain greater opportunities for the labour market. In basic schools, increased emphasis will also be placed on the work, technology and art articles in line with the main education. A respectable president. By extensive consultation and agreement in society, new laws on education and appropriate teachers and principals, which will give considerable support to their teaching work, where a teacher can now work at three school levels. There have been extensive operations to increase the number of teachers, and funding has been given to make it possible for teachers to complete their education through paid training. This strategy has resulted in a tens of percent increase in attendance at the teacher's school. At the beginning of this terms, it was said that one of the greatest challenges was the Great Teacher lack that would occur in 2032, but now we have not changed that position for so long. It's a great joy, for I say: Teachering is the most important work in society because it lays the groundwork for all other jobs in society. I would also like to mention that the General Assembly agreed to an agreement on the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, which includes nine procedures involved in reforming the educational system. In particular, I would like to mention the value of a mother's teaching, which increases in basic schools and aims to improve vocabulary and reading ability. A respectable president. It is a joy to see how much we are increased and given in this category, and it will surely benefit from education and culture in our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u208	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to college and college. During the days, I noticed that Keilir and the Southnes'education network received extra money, but Southnesia's educational network offers learning and working out options for students in search of a job. I'd like to ask if a minister has any idea of taking such a trip to other parts of the country in cooperation with institutions of education there. And now that I'm up here, I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity and ask the highest. Minister if the wording used on Keisis's website is not working now. By permission of the president, you can read: Kelilis's school bridge offers studies for individuals who have not completed a student's test and who are able to graduate after school for the local and foreign university studies. Keilir is the only school in which we have an opportunity to study together with the University of Iceland, and the study is available for use in all HI studies. However, I have received some reports that when it comes down to it, students are denied university education and are not completely correct on the school site. So I'd like to go to the highest. A minister by how she intends to resolve this so that students can walk with confidence in this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u209	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his keen interest and interest in the jury. Hv. A senator asked about the education network and the procedures we are taking on the Southnes. It was a long time and a great joy because it is, as I said here in my introduction, absolutely clear that we will educate ourselves through this state. It is in the long run. The question is, will we have further cooperation with other parties? Yes, that's what we intend to do. We're going to promote national education, use technology, use telecommunications. We just announced further cooperation in the East, where we are going to expand our technical education and then offer university education. Hv. A senator also asked about going to Keili's college and university bridges and whether we had no intention of improving this so that there are more schools than the University of Iceland. Yes, it's being done in the Ministry, and I hope it's taken care of. I agree with what. A senator says it's a great deal of justice. The source of information must reflect the reality and facts of the case. I agree with what. A senator says that it is extremely important that we correct these matters, and I understand that this has come into play.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u210	Mr. President. I'm a little busy with chapter 19 of a financial program that's about the media. The proposal is to see that contributions to the Kingdom News will be dropped by 300 million. K. but the tax increase will be replaced because the radio rate will be increased by 270 million. K. As everyone knows, this is an obligatory subscription that everyone must pay, whether they like it or not. I have to ask the highest. A minister may not have considered simply a economy requirement for the company that has 5 billion on budgets, just below, to run and the rest of the country's pockets are applied. I wanted to ask a minister about this. It also states that we should return to the so - called free media about 400 million. K. as this year's work, but the greatest dissatisfaction seems to be the way it was carried out, if I remember correctly, what was being done by a simple regulations. I'd also like to ask a minister if he will be back in the year to change the distribution rules in any way so that there will be more transparency in this matter and more slowly, for those applying, in the way of the results.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u211	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the interest in the media of this country. At times, I feel a little sad when I hear the language going through my mouth. A senator is always on state radio. This was set up in the 1930's in the Annuity class, and it has been with the nation throughout that time. Of course, the radio plays a very important role in providing a fair news transfer and culture to us and has been very prominent in creating TV programs and other programs. The radio is doing many good things. But I can agree with that with what. A senator, of course, is always important about business and other matters. Hv. A senator asks if there was an increase in the economy requirements only on the state radio. The answer is: No, we haven't wanted to do that at this time, because the policy of action established by the government these days is in the spirit of Keynes, i.e. We know that to get us through this situation, we need to be very supportive of the entire community, education, culture, and investments. That's what we're doing, and we're also on the State Radio for that matter. Hv. A senator asked in strength to extraordinary media. The arrangement is adopted as an example to the Norwegian people, and everything we are doing in this regard is very beneficial. A Regulation was issued which takes into account the bill under consideration. You're right next door. A senator that this was not an undisputed case, it is now often that way in politics, but it is very important that we be able to strengthen the media in this country better than we have ever done so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u212	A respectable president. I think ministers and I share a vision of the importance of education and education and that education is the basis for a good society to be maintained here. V.E.G. Here a minister went on to say that some contributions were made. But that's not all there is. This is to form a little Spanish to see that contributions to higher education are drawn together by about 50 million. At a rate, contributions to educational and ongoing education centres decrease by 30 million. K., donations for Icelandic education for foreigners take place, sponsors for the continuation of education, work allocation fund is reduced by 35 million. K. Since 2019 and the rehabilitation fund is cut down by 10%, 70 million. K. there. In itself, I did not intend to have a place of speech at the highest level. A minister of this thinks that, in terms of agreements and funding for art and culture, it is stated that there will be a cut-off of about 350 million. K. Today between the years and the numbers are 500 million. K. surgery there. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister sees how she sees that the arts and culture in the land will flourish when we so desperately need the work of living in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u213	A respectable president. How important it is that the contributions made for art and culture are maintained at the place they are now between 2020 and 2021! I agree with what. A senator that when we reexamine the financial program, we need to review these factors. It is my conviction that we must, to get through this, as I mentioned, to keep our community in place, and that's what we're going to do. I want to tell you what. A senator says that we are having major operations to support the artists of the country. We've been raising a lot on the artists. This week we're going to introduce a bill that will be especially considered to be independently acting artists. In particular, they take action to help those who work in music and are in the field arts. The value of many of them is complete, and we admit it, and we're probably facing it. We've also seen that our systems don't get enough control of all our artists, and they deserve us to take these actions. We're going to reexamine the state budget before the season ends, and I'm thinking of looking at this part further.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u214	President. Thank you very much. The minister of these answers and assures her that our support in the United States, as well as that of prospective member of the government, will not stand up to change the plans for a massive cutdown to this operation. As noted in a question before. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's burgundy contributions to the State Radio are about to decrease by 310 million. That's a 10% cut next year. It is said to be due to fewer advertisements, natural, and also that fewer landmarks pay radio fees, normal perhaps. I'd like to hear the highest. Ministers will tell us how the Agency will compensate for this. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister on the implementation of a service contract with the Agency. V.E.G. A minister earlier said a few words about the importance of the State Radio operation, and I think that we share that vision. We realize that the Agency has a very important public role and today when there is a lot of big stories and stories flying all over the world, it is just as important to trust in any agency's reporting. I'd like to hear the highest. A minister only tells me his ideas about this institution and what is involved in a service agreement with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u215	A respectable president. Like what? A senator likely knows how to develop contributions to the State Radio in the rhythm of the development of the social network of radio fees. The number of landmarks has been falling because of the economic crisis we are dealing with right now. Similarly, when a successful income has gone well, we have made a significant increase in income. So now they are shrinking because of this trend. Of course, we're talking in the budget bill, but I can tell you what. A member of the Parliament that the State Radio has been taking on something, which has resulted in increased costs for the crown virus. That's what we're talking about at the Ministry. The types of service contract have been delayed and this includes due to the conditions upstairs. The contract may have to be changed, but it's in the final meters. It will highlight increased education. I'd also like to mention here in our discussion that the Kingdom News has been giving a lot of attention to its educational role and particularly in these times, giving instruction to children and young people in the light of the situation. That's very thankable. So there are some new features in the Service Convention that take a little into account the situation and the way it looks forward to the future. I can also tell you what. A senator says that I think it's very important that we have a powerful national radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u216	A respectable president. I happen to want to ask about just about the same things that happened. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson. I may simply allow me to reiterate the topics we've been discussing here. I would like to quote the words of a popular musician, a national treasurer, Páll Óskar, by permission of a president: ▪ Most of us have had no income or have experienced loss of income as long as 70%, and some of us have been out of pay for seven months now. No one can live for the eighth month. I may be lucky, I only have two cats, but behind me there may be ten musicians who have children and homes and who are paying off cars, mortgages, and I don't know what or what. So, yes, we need help too. V.E.G. Well, Minister of Education is giving a bill that is to be met to some extent by musicians, but I would like to ask why this tremendous long delay has taken place. - Who's standing in the way? Is it possible to declare the opposition of the Independence Party to cultural activity that stands in the way of this? I ask because the previous administration of the government has simply been of no use to musicians only to a very limited extent. Paybacks reach a small number of musicians. Work and pay funds are limited to part of the class and musicians have not been able to gain irreversible costs due to reported concerts, etc. It's been going on for months. Why So Long Did It Take? Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary to RUSU position. The budget for the state radio is down by 310 million years, and I see that the financial program points out that it is in terms of a radio fee. Still, the radio charge is just dropping 60 million from year to year. What explains this difference, why is there a much greater decrease than the radio charge? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u217	A respectable president. I want to take steps to support much more fully - in fact, I say not only for us but also for us, the people thank them by meeting the group that is experiencing a massive drop of income. We're taking care of a bill, and I'll just tell you exactly what's been going on about it. We were going to put together some independent, professional artists, to form those who are renting music equipment and light, and so on. But we've decided to separate them because we'll be able to bring help to the independent artistry that the rest of our resources cannot control. Then there will be general action for the companies who experience this massive payload. Initially, we are going to take it together as an example of dancing, but we have learned that it is wise to do so in this way. I hope to bring back a bill in the government, because we've had this separation, which will lead to increased support. I'd rather take more time on it, so we're pretty sure it's a good operation, and we don't have to come back after a month. We've been working this thing very well with the entire sector. There was a very good report on the music at the Covid time we've been using as a base. It recommended a more complex approach, but we noticed that it might be better for us to have special contact with our companies during a general procedure and that this would be a specific support. It's gonna be pretty good, and I'd rather, as I say, there's some delays, but we can say, it's pretty good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u218	President. The financial agenda puts it that from the budgets 2020 to the budget bill 2021, this is how to raise the amount, increase education and culture spending by less than 6 billion, if all is combined. Of these, the contribution is being made to the increase in the number of students at an advanced and university level following an increased unemployment level of 1 billion. An increase in contributions to the University of Students and the Credit Lines of Icelandic students, as well as contributions to the university to do so comparable to the rest of the North countries in 2025. That's the financial list. But I don't get it all because I'm almost no change in high school funding. The budget is 200 million. K. above 2025 and 2021. At the end of a financial budget, the college level is certainly 3.5 billion higher, but I don't see anything to explain that increase except just an increase in students or the work done on health sciences, but not a review of the calculus, which is what it all is about when it all comes down to it. I don't understand any part of the budget being covered in a financial program that has advanced education to make us comparable to neighboring nations. There's no part of the plan. Finally, one word is said to refer to digital carpenters in a financial program. It encourages high school to use them. Nothing about building and amplitude so that anyone approved by the General should be able to access such carpenters. A minister didn't get any funding in his digital carpenters? What, then, will be the role of Iceland's New Creation Centre, which is involved in the operation of the already operating digital carpenters? I don't fully understand what governments mean when they say their goal is to promote education at both advanced and university levels. The government has finally fixed a marvelously defective loan system, which, in effect, is listed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u219	A respectable president. In this ideal period, we have fulfilled what is being said in the government contract regarding funding to the university level, i.e. We've crossed the OECD average. That was one of the things we said, and we also said that we would approach the North countries very quickly. We also said that we would undergo a major system modification at the Icelandic Board of Students, which we set to the Schools Department of Students, and that is a complete system change, and now students have a completely different choice of this change. I'd like to mention it, too, if you don't. A senator examines to form a subject field 22 and what we are doing about promoting all the topics associated with teachers and teachers and how we are going to strengthen the foundation of high school, that we are talking about a total educational revolution. We have also made significant contributions to each of our high school students because when we cut short a year's study, we did not change money into high school. So this is quite clear: This is where high school and university levels have been heavily supported. Hv. A senator also asked about digital carpenters. We wholeheartedly agree on their importance. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers and I are about to negotiate with all the digital carpenters, connect them better into the high school, so we combine our energy to give them special support. We're talking about new contracts everywhere, and we're raising them up a lot. Perhaps we could have put it in this fine publication too, and I'm sorry it didn't come in there. However, these policies look very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u220	Mr. President. I'm very impressed with that word. In the beginning, it is important that the school system is now open to those who can use their time and who do not have a job to study. But when we discuss school matters, it is also of utmost importance that we keep looking in the long run. So, of course, I'm happy with the emphasis we have here, which says we're expanding our donations and we're going to meet the goal of getting up to the sides of the other northern countries over the years and we've already reached the OECD average. The report, Iceland and the Fourth Industrial Revolution, published by the Ministry of Presidency last year, are also discussed in this study. It says that education and research will play a key role in implementing and molding the technological innovations of the fourth industrial revolution and will contribute to their positive effects on the quality of life and the well - being of the common people. And so on, colleges play a role in climate change and all that. Of course, I couldn't agree with this. But I'm going to ask them specifically this connection. On one hand, he wrote the highest. The Minister of Education to the Convention on a university outpost in the East during the days when I'm very celebrating. But I had to search both the budget and the financial programme only to see if they were already planning to be financed, but not that it is, although they are mentioned in the budget of the budget. Second, I ask, and therefore closely related, to technical studies at the University of Akureyri. The University of Akureyri has recently applied to receiving recognition as such so that it can become a flea. That case is rocked in my opinion, and it fits completely with the emphasis on improving access to university education in technical and technical fields. Akureyri is one of the largest and most powerful engineering schools in the country. And at the University of Akureyri, at the University of England, I am absolutely convinced that one of the most rationalized schools in the East, Nessau, and a powerful multiway school in the South Pacific, is now the most rational of all the government's schools, just to keep up with this goal of promoting the technical and the mine, would be opening open access to such a national study, in Akureyri, and leaving the University of Akureyri this university out in the East. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u221	A respectable president. It is the purpose of the government to promote everything related to education, research, and innovation. Why do we want to do so? Because we believe that the largest moving force to the future is increasing education. I couldn't agree more. A senator's importance is that the University of Akureyri performs this role when we are starting a branch office in the East for technical studies. Between the years we have financed the preparation for this study, and then we plan, as we have been greatly increasing the amount of money to the university, that part of that money is going to strengthen the support of this branch and technical education in the East and that's how it is, when we are considering the financial program, that it may be. That's how we're going to finance it. I also agree completely that if we are going to improve flexibility and strengthen our exports, it is by far the best thing to bet on an investment in education, in innovation, and in research. And everyone sees that we're getting into the Inn Fund, into everything that has to do with research. I'm convinced that what we're doing right now will certainly have a better future for Iceland and that we'll be even more powerful than we would have been.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u222	Mr. President. I thank you for the answers, but I'd really like to get a little clearer answer about the highest. Minister and Ministry agree that the University of Akureyri gets recognition as a technical university, a high school with technical studies. That, in my opinion, is absolutely key here and so much that recommends it. If we look at the situation, we will see behind one of the most powerful engineering schools in the country where an application of articles is good, which we really need in this fourth industrial revolution. The same can be said of the school in Ness shop as in a sheep's jar. Thus, it is a powerful recording area behind the fact that education at a university in technology is involved in this section. The Orient is in desperate need of a better access to university education, as well as, of course, a more powerful field of research and innovation. If we look at the parts of the country, it is the land of the East that draws the straw from everyone in the country on this matter, so we need to sort it out. And this would also be a delight to highlight the University of Akureyri in terms of oceanography, which, of course, has been its flagship. There's one of the most powerful shipping industry and shipping services in Iceland, so there's a lot to recommend it, including the cooperation of employment and school, in Akureyri. I'm an egg. Minister of the law to make this case a success. But there are also small brothers in the group, and that is why I allow myself to ask in word in the budget bill that turns to the People's Schools at Flatland and in Seyder. There the change is offered that, instead of a fixed earmarked budget, of 15 million will be donated to each school, within the framework of the seminary. All right, if the money comes back. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it not still to trust that schools will receive their contributions and that they will get contracts, and preferably more than one year of age, so that they can continue to build the brilliant good works that have been developed there during the past few years, both in Sufficiency and in Flattu?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u223	A respectable president. Yes, I am very excited that the University of Akureyri will be recognized as a technical university, and he will be involved in the construction of the East. The preparation that is about to begin now aims for the University of Akureyri to gain this recognition and the sooner it gets better, so that we can start this study. That's right. That's right. Of course, a senator's training and education in an East country need to be reinforced. This is the first hand to do so, and what a cause for rejoicing! Besides, he asked why. A senator into financing public schools. I'd like to remind you that the first time during our last session, the People's School Act was adopted and, of course, we follow the funding of these schools and we do so within the framework we have. The mechanism of the procedure may be misleading. But it is clear that if we are going to be stronger or try to improve our skills in this situation, we need to spend more money on education and the People Schools there are fully elected to support the diversity of the education system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u224	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss the fact that we face the fact that the job market is all the way to the end of young people. This is in itself the same theme as we see in a foreign country where younger people are more likely to lose their jobs simply because they work in such articles, articles that have suffered from the crisis, such as at restaurants, hotels, etc. There are three times as many under 40s that were e.g. Unemployment of this group over 50 between March and August, and the difference is even more dramatic when we consider those under 30 years of age and compare with the age of 60 and older. I want to talk to the minister that in this situation and when you look at this group, the education system is a powerful tool that governments have and can apply in that regard, i.e. to bet on education, afraid to invest in education and power, and take big steps right away for education. That way gives young people the opportunity to get stronger into the workforce afterward, and I found it positive to hear the views of a minister of education in that regard and her ideas. This experience we already have from previous trials, and here we are truly talking about lucrative investments, profitable investments in people. But I was thinking about the loan fund...... ofa minister of Education or a education fund in this regard. There were many positive and positive changes, many of which turn toward people who have already completed their studies. The more significant action now would have been that we had been more supportive of students while they were students. Does a minister see the need to open his university more fully in the light of the circumstances that are now by ensuring the survival of students in any way beyond what our laws today expect?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u225	A respectable president. Of course, it is true that there has been a complete system change that involves everything that is connected with the education fund and the student's ideals, especially for the future. Hv. A senator is likely asking: Are we going to do something to further support our current progress? Yes, we do. But I'd like less, too. A senator notices that in the past summer, we made great efforts to increase the number of summer jobs in order to improve the experience of young people who did not work. The conclusion was that much of the type of work that was made did not go away. It showed that in this case, we did more than less, and there were quite an amazing number of exciting projects that came out of it. I want less of that, too. A senator says that we have largely increased contributions to the New World Fund of students, and they have an amazing start. Like what? A senator realizes that the increase will continue. I give this priority to the next summer as well, so students realize that there will be an exciting opportunity out there during the summer. I agree with what. A senator that investing in education is a huge deal, but what we're doing now by investing so much in innovation, of course, we're betting on the future of creating jobs in the sector where our young people want to be. Thus, the nations, or states, that have invested in education and innovation are most likely to produce most of the future, and that is a government plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u226	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of education for detailed answers. She understood my question correctly, I was thinking about the survival of the growing group looking into the university right now and whether it is the policy of the government to open this university in a systematic way so that there will be a practical option for people to study. The question may go on to say whether the government that I heard was actually a minister of education is going to bet on education as a way out of the crisis, both long - term and shorter, and how we are going to use the education system to cope with the conditions that exist now and directly encourage this large group of young people to look for study and that we are going to build up a stronger and more varied career in the long term. There's a lot of talk about innovation, and I've found something special, and it's interesting that there's no more talk about education along with the political conversation that we're not discussing this as part of a three - sided foundation; education, research, and innovation. If we're talking about infrastructure, I find it has to include, for example. to an investment in education. It is a permanent and lasting investment. I have felt that it is only missing on the basis of the government that education is discussed in the context of innovation, employment education, education and research, which must have the same roles as the future. The next question, then, is about contributions to high school and university. They're growing, but it seems to me that the increase is relatively low in terms of circumstances, i.e. if you consider how much it is more than just meeting a student increase. [[The president calls.]] When unemployment statistics are running up a bit dramatic, does a minister of education see that these numbers can be revised, or can be reimbursed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u227	A respectable president. It is quite clear that the increases that take place now, both in the budget and in the financial programme, are aimed at investing in education. We've also said that if we have to add, because that's more than what we ask for in student space, we will. We actually organize the budget bill, so each school has its demand and adaptability. But it's clear, and we've said that we're linking education with research, education with innovation and education to the development of society. Just in the first few days of this government, we began to examine where there is a skill malfunction in the workforce. It turns out there's a lot of technicalised people out there. There are a lot of people with a certain training program, and we have been setting priorities in their behalf and making an introduction to the campaign of study an opportunity so that those who have lost their job can enter the education system. I can also mention that we actually work very hard with applications, i.e. those applications that were not clear to get to them immediately. In the summer, we went over it quite systematically to get everyone who was applying for the schools they wanted to attend, provided that the people met the requirements for them to do. We're also increasing flexibility. I have a bill on the Constitution that those who have completed a test of youth have access to university education, if they choose to pursue it. So we're in a great new system of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u228	A respectable president. Is Our Future Education on the Right Way? I don't think that as much as I'm concerned about, but that's what's happening between girls and boys in education, at the expense of boys. Then we must ask ourselves, " What is wrong and what is going on? ' I'd like to ask the highest. Education minister on the future policy and how to make boys and girls stand equal in education. The situation today is far away, and dyslexia is also needed. In the financial program, it says under the permission of a president: To increase the share of Icelandic education in middle school is to increase the percentage of Icelandic in the reference period to 1,◯7. A class of elementary schools and plans for this change to take effect from the course of 2020/2021. The number of weekly minutes will not be increased, but the choice of school for teaching lessons will be new in Icelandic, to promote reading and writing. That is why I ask: What needs to be done so that a minister would consider it wise to increase the number of minutes in Icelandic education? In view of the lack of culture, should no further action be taken and immediately taken?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u229	A respectable president. How vital that all have the same access to education and the same opportunities within the educational system! So this is a factor. Because we see a certain change that has been taking place in the last 15 to 20 years, a senator brings us all to mind. It's not just happening in Iceland, it's global development. How will we react? Let me give you a few things that are listed under the scope of the 22nd. First, it is to continue strengthening the reading skills of high school students, and one of the key features of new education is to consider how we strengthen our boys'reading skills so that they are in the same place as girls. Clearly, we need to do better. I'm going to mention some aspects of education development as a plan. First, we're setting up a so - called school development team that aims to strengthen this foundation of the education system. Second, we are going to expand our study, simply asking ourselves, " Why is this difference? ' We know in part why he is, but we need more research on it and not just better research, but we need to know how we are going to deal with it. We are going to have increased studies of education that are designed specifically to do so. Likewise, we are strengthening standards and study assessments to see the problem sooner and to use early intervention. We now see these things much earlier, even in the first grade, that there is considerable difference, and we need to give the help needed instead of considering them at a high school because they lack reading skills. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u230	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of education for the answers, and I think we agree in this regard. We should make sure that boys are on the same foundation, and we also need to think about these things at high school. They were talking about technology and engineering, and this has to start pretty soon. Boys are already interested in a computer field. We've created an impulse system for sports scholarships, for promoting sports and other activities. In view of the bad effect that Covid has had on musicians'income, a minister believes that a government fund might be increased financially for music instruction? In this way, certain musicians might be assured of employment, as well as music that has a positive influence on the development of children. Would a minister support suggestions on a special music program that parents could use for their children's music instruction, as is now done with sports vacation cards? There may be one way to promote both boys and girls to music. I think we're about to get to the point where we have to find the reasons why boys would drop out of school and grab in and make sure that we find a way for them to continue studying and to get into a school or a university.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u231	A respectable president. Yes, I believe it is of utmost importance that we support a much better student career. All I wanted to do was go deeper into what we are doing with it in order to improve my understanding of reading. We have this reading test that measures each child's progress from the first to the tenth grade. This is one way in which you can better understand the situation and grab them sooner and improve your reading skills as boys and girls. We have a set of tools and tools that we didn't have before it doesn't work out, and we need to do much better. We need to make up the budget for supporting more research projects, i.e. develop a study program that appeals to both genders, and take a closer look at the interests of boys. Why are they less interested in some of the school walls? And we need to take that into consideration. This is one of the key elements of a new education policy, i.e. Equality to study for both sexes. And I'd like to answer that as well. A senator came in on music instruction and assistance. Of course, the vacation cards have helped greatly, and then we are also working on it, and it came into one of the government's first companies, giving special support to low - income families in the pursuit of leisure activities. I think it is extremely important that no child be left behind in the time of crown virus, so extra money comes into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u232	A respectable president. In my previous answer, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister's comments are made on two points that have been discussed earlier in the discussion. First of all, the student loan system. We agree that it has been a long time to update it and that it has been taken to port. However, that is one of the words that we can use that had not been raised the basics of students for the beginning of the winter, especially since the possibility of working together as we study has virtually gone wrong. V.E.G. The minister said in the discussion earlier, if I correctly understood that the basic progress was being reviewed. But it does not take place in a financial program. That's why I'd like to get it clear that I'm working on raising the basics of students. What a need! That was the first thing I wanted to ask you. The other is what I heard the minister say in answer to what he said. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson. I just wanted to see if I had been wrong. The minister, with President's permission, said: "We'll review the budget before the season ends. However, this is now a national budget submitted to the last legislation of the ideal period. It's not supposed to be revised, for elections that are in less than a year's time, is it? Wasn't it just a question of the minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u233	A respectable president. Yes, it was a mistake. I'd like to mention to you about the High Education that there has been a natural system modification. That's where we've canceled our responsibilities. We've been raising the basic progress during the election period quite a bit, but we can do better despite not seeing it in this financial program. Clearly, we need to make sure that everyone can survive the funding and loans offered. We know that it probably takes the future to do better in this regard, I agree with that. Hv. A senator mentions what I agree with absolutely, that in this financial crisis, students have the potential to make significant reductions in their income. But there is also an opportunity. We have seen that Icelandic students have worked tremendously with study, and they have been studying longer and later graduates because of it. I think we should also consider now at the high Council how we can further strengthen the interests of Icelandic students. We have indeed taken great strides with the education fund of students. We've been raising the payoff target, and five times that particularly for those who are entering the education system to take into account the circumstances that exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u234	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more than that. Ministers that it would be best if students didn't have to work with study and could just focus on the study, get more out of it, and make it better in general. The situation, however, is that the basic progress today is that people are working with studies. That is why it is so urgent to reevaluate the basic progress in general, but especially in times where extra income is hard to obtain needed by students in order to survive. I was going to have another conversation in my second answer. That's something I spoke to the highest. Minister of Social Affairs earlier, which is the bridge between these two Ministers, the bridge between maternity school and prenatal school. It must be built next year because if we lent the birthworm to 12 months at the end of the year, they will be 12 months old at the end of the next year. There must be a school to receive it. This is certainly not true in the largest rural areas in the country. Social Affairs and Children's Ministers said that the communities need to be pressured, they need to be encouraged - at the same time that the rurals are facing a historic drop in income. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is there not more to do? Doesn't the State have to sit down with the rural communities, look only over the wall between these two administrative ladders, all outside those walls seem to care when it comes to securing basic services? Don't you need to work together to make sure that our first school is under the name and standing up for children from 12 months of age?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u235	A respectable president. The class has completely made a difference for the development of Icelandic society. It's because of the class we see far more equations in Iceland and elsewhere in the North countries. The level of high school guarantees a much more powerful interview of women, and this has been the case throughout history. Hv. A senator asks if we should be more involved in the schools. We do so in many ways. We do this in order to make a film by going to a big campaign to promote teachers at a high school, a high school, and a high school degree. We've seen a big increase, we've seen an increase of 120% between the years in an application of a school teacher's degree. We have not seen so much interest in it for many years, and this is because we took specific steps to support the school program. It is vital that a level of knowledge be made up of people in order to strengthen them. Many very good things are being done. I appointed a service group this year to consider how we can further strengthen it, how we can get more teachers into the nursery. Is there any way to make changes in the Theocratic Ministry School organization, breaking it up? How can we do that? One thing is certain, though, that this is an extremely important school level, and I give high priority to the fact that the study is going through a game. So we owe much to the way these matters have been conducted. But we can certainly work together to improve our efforts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u236	A respectable president. The fields that fall under my domain are subject fields 12, 13 and, in part, 7, 16 and 21. The main financial issues for agriculture are about 17 billion bucks. every year and approximately $7 billion. About fishing and fishing. The biggest changes in money during the planned period turn toward the construction of a new ocean study vessel, but otherwise there are no major changes in the budget of the individual subjects. Yet, there is tremendous scope for both farming and fishing in the coming years, and significant changes will take place in both their environment and their contribution to society. Budgeting plans and plans in both areas are effective. The importance of agriculture, fishing, and farming will only increase year by year, although in different ways and price. In terms of agriculture, it is essential for jobs to achieve steady state in production, to support production monitoring and thereafter contribute to and encourage innovation and innovation. The greatest challenge facing the sector is that we need to adapt our agricultural system to today's consumer behavior, as well as to predict future changes. Agriculture in Iceland will primarily compete in the domestic market and then in exported production. Our production competition is very good when compared with foreign imports. The objective is to expand our market share on the national market. In contrast, marine soil and fish farms deal with other factors. The trends and currents on the global scale, on the use and protection of living resources in the ocean, have the most to do with the progress of this work. The fundamental thing about these international markets is that we have a witness and keep it about sustainable fishing and our fire. This is of utmost importance when we consider that 98◯ 99% of our labor goes to a foreign market. We'll race there. As for fish farming, a growing industry here, let me mention that this year the export value of fish farms is expected to be about 25How's it going? 30,30 billion a.m. At the same time, the value is a total of some 70 billion dollars. So it's turning into an enormous size. We remember and are working hard on food and food security projects. We have seen it in these last days, in connection with the virus, how important it is in the field of agriculture to promote and secure the national food. We've been working very firmly and firmly on the basis of a plan made by the General for the import import process. We have also emphasized innovation and product development in both seas and agriculture, including with the establishment of the new Food Fund. His applications were not advertised long ago. The interest was intense, and 263 applications returned. They are now discussed in the fund and show that people believe that there is a great opportunity for food production in this country. I'd like to also mention environmental and climate issues. We have made significant agreements with sheep farmers, dairy producers, and cattle farming. I'd also like to mention a simple rule. Finally, as I see that my time is running out, I have set up a plan for the increase in public work in the country in this way to negotiate with agencies that hear under my Ministry and provide special funds to support their construction beyond national boundaries. As noted, a great deal of structure has been made up in public institutions that have headquarters here in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u237	V.E.G. President. I'll be in the agricultural field. The government showed its view of agriculture right away in its first financial programme, where the article had the special place of being the only one for assuming that donations would be progressively reduced. Farmers thus had the only class that sells its services to the State, who could expect a permanent mare. It is important to keep in mind that agricultural contributions, in fact, represent farm development, in the same way that contributions to their local institutions describe the economic development of those working there. Governments now claim that financial programs are expected to increase in 2025, compared with 2020. When further research is made, contractions are expected during a period of 2021/2025 in a financial program. An unexpected increase in 2020, which is used as a reference, is explained by a revised gardening agreement and by the fact that that that year, from other areas, they were assigned to agriculture. So it is highly misleading to use the year 2020, using the changed criteria to compare with the development of the period, is recognized in the small font that a decline in the implementation of agricultural contracts of 624 million is expected. K., i.e. Less than an ideal peasant. This reduction plan of the government to the next five years comes at the same time as agriculture is being picked up from many places at the same time. First, with an adverse toll agreement made with the European Union, import of raw non-fried meat and non-efficient food, increased operating costs, unusually low prices, adverse farming contracts, and a steady stream of new regulations, which are often expensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u238	A respectable president. Right away. In this financial program, a senator speaks of the government's attitude toward agriculture in a way that reduces donations I remind him that the head of his party was prime minister when the leftover contracts were made. They expect an 8.6% decrease in the extended contract period, due to the year 2026. Men should look to the responsibility that everyone holds on in the manner that was negotiated with farmers. There were other reasons why this contract was reduced. The first work of this government was to add to the stock market contracts of 660 million. K. in the first months of his work. That's a lot of money. In addition, the government contributes a substantial amount of money to gardening, to subsidies on electricity, long - awaited jobs that were not included in the agreement. Also, the cost of innovation and the development of food production is being spent on an enormously larger scale. I thought it was a reason for joy. And I would have trusted that. A senator agreed that these were good goals. On the contrary, there has been political solidarities that we should focus our attention on the areas I've been referring to, rather than just thinking about what can go wrong and putting out in such a way that someone other than us is to blame. There's nothing like that. I could also take up a discussion about tollcanathans, which were negotiated with the European Union and with humans, including from the current category. A senator, stood and welcomed the initiative shown in the contract, including to benefit consumers. This is just a matter of recalling when it is being run over the present government that it is responsible for all that, in any case, would be responsible. Senators may have been upset by negotiations with farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u239	V.E.G. President. For some reason, there's an answer. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But I'm going to keep up with agriculture. Plans for losing are when the industry is actually fighting for its life. In fact, it is expected that this article will be placed in a permanent emergency protection. At the same time, there is even greater demand for this article, including Agricultural agriculture management programmes in relation to agricultural agreements. Who will carry the cost? In view of the financial agenda, it is clear that they are farmers themselves. The same is likely to apply to the plans to make Icelandic agriculture competitive in foreign production. How can an Icelandic family become competitive with a foreign factory produced in cheap labor and without many of the conditions it needs to meet? It has been reported that this article has come down to a drawer in the High Commissioner for the Sea Department. We need to respond to the position in which Icelandic agriculture is in, not with impairment, but with a more intensive application in behalf of this basic work programme, which is a basis for, and a variety of activities all over the country. Today, in these unprecedented times of crown virus, when uncertainty is high, the organization is seeking to increase our food security with a huge increase in incentive for agriculture in the broad range of areas covered by the sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u240	A respectable president. Only through this approach. Senator. I appreciate his efforts to address his viewpoints, but it disappoints me to hear that agriculture is being saved in a drawer in the High Commissioner for the Sea Department. It's a phrase that was created and that doesn't have any real foundations. Never before have there been more people in the Aggressor department than now without some particular land. And hearing this isn't good. I think it's a cold message to those who work in Icelandic agriculture and the goods that are taking place there are in need. It just isn't. I am, for example. recently arrived from gardening and flowering farms in smokeholt. It has hundreds of millions of structures in a relatively small area, an overwhelming optimism, and faith that land and nation can be won and gained valuables. In a similar way, in many other parts of the land, we see a lot of people putting in good work and doing good things. I just don't think it's fair to these people to talk in such a way that everything is in the middle of a big loss. I'd like to remind you that the next reimbursement of agricultural contracts is 2023. It's not far now. To prepare, we're at my Ministry. to take advantage of the work that has taken place in reexamination of the agricultural agreements now for the shape of agricultural policy in Iceland which I expect to become the basis for a revised agreement with farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u241	Mr. President. When I looked at a bill for budget and plans until 223 C.E. for Fish Service, I have to say that I'm a crusader. I see that the decrease in the amount between 2020 and 202023 is up to 16%, and contributions to equipment and equipment will also decrease over time by 5%. I was surprised because I was a member of the Ministry's staff. A minister who dealt with the exact surveillance role of the Fish Room. We made suggestions on how to strengthen the role of the Fish Room, and if anything is to be taken care of, they will clearly not be reducing the cost of fishing. I want to pray to the highest. A minister to review the evidence that the figures are the way they appear in the accompanying copy. We made proposals for weight monitoring, both at home and weighing at seafront levels. We made suggestions for the removal of an event and for the precise equipment to be bought and could be used to make the surveillance more efficient. And we've discussed the monitoring of the fiscal compression. All of this at Fishing Room to care for, and I can't see that this important institution, which truly needs to be strengthened, will be strengthened by less management efforts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u242	A respectable president. You're right. One senator noted that she was serving in a group of people who were to make proposals for fishing, based on a report. A senator was preeminent to be taken by Government Accounting. And the council agreed to the synopsis proposed there. There's no particular intention of cutting down the fishing department. It's never been my intention. For suggestions from the staff, we are working with them now in the Ministry. We're trying to put things in such a way that during this winter we can present a bill that takes into account the suggestions given by the committee, as it were. A senator mentioned earlier, does. On that basis, we will consider the cost of what we are doing and will be expected to make changes in the financing of the individual sector of fishing if necessary. But I've said that before, and I can still say that I really feel that it doesn't necessarily have to be the same signal between raising money to a particular function and improving in the same way. There's nothing to be a straight line between. It may also be possible that when we go through this, we will find that there are other ways in which we have worked out our financial resources. But at this point, I have no plans upstairs to destroy the fishing department, in no way. On the contrary, I hope that any suggestions presented there could lead to strengthening the surveillance of the resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u243	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I'm just a little calmer after that, and I expect me to see other numbers in the financial program that will be submitted to the council before April 1. But otherwise, Mr. President. There is nothing more to do than change our eating habits if we are going to have some success in the fight against global warming. Happily, poor habits take on rapid changes, and young people insist that we fight climate change from man to man. It's the highest. Don't Ministers agree that in order to have any chance of success in this grandest joint project on earth, public needs to change and political will and the courage of politicians? In July, the government's global climate program aims to increase the number of domestic vegetable production by 25% over the next three years, to support organic vegetable production, and to aim for the purpose of Icelandic gardening to be noncarbons no later than in 2040. There is a great demand for gardening products today, and there is an urgent need for people with culture and production knowledge. This need will increase if governments are serious about their climate program. The key to success and the achieving of government aims by increasing vegetable production and forestry is that environmental education and gardening support innovation and growth. Corporates and businesses in gardening and forestry, with the preeminent of the Farmer's Front, call for increased education, and believe that the best solution to this material is to establish a special high school in which they smoke in Elfus, which is directly under the Ministry of Education and not under the University of Agriculture. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he does not feel that there is a greater need for better education and how he likes this idea of the trade class and the president of the local community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u244	A respectable president. It's good to go. A senator is a little calmer, and I welcome that. In this regard, I would also like to mention that the proposals of the group as good as they were were were were were not costly. We have to do the same thing with the bill that I mentioned was being built. I share the point of the question. A senator on climate control and the importance of the possibilities we have in this area, e.g. Regarding vegetable production. We've taken a position on that in agreement with the garden. Similarly, we have taken a very clear stand on sheep farms and cow settlements regarding climate emphasis. There are eight issues involved in the government's climate program. In this regard, we are making an effort. I would also like to mention that in a policy that the government made less suggestion about the public purchase of food, it is put in the priority of the choice of eaters. We have food policy on our weight. I mentioned it earlier, in answer to another word. A senator, that we are preparing agrienvironmental policy, and that will address all these factors. Yes, I believe it may well contribute to further training. I'm not going to get involved in the task of a minister of education, including the fields of education and gardening. I've been a spokesman for the history of strengthening the affairs of Iceland's agricultural university because I believe that in many areas the agricultural system is lacking in the educational system of the debate on the interest issues of agriculture and its ability and ability to contribute to society. I believe that we will do best, since the University of Agriculture can take a strong position in such a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u245	Mr. President. First, I'm going to describe my enjoyment with goals and standards that are in the agricultural phases of a marine eco-efficiency, with regard to climate-efficiency, food security, increased freedom to a variety of productions and incentives for innovation, and then simpler management and increased electronic relations. I also like what we love most. Ministers have discussed earlier, this experiment work started by making it easier for sheep to slaughter sheep themselves at home and market them to consumers. I like it and like the high emphasis we put on the vegetable industry that has been called on so many times. There have been a number of policies, e.g. the preparation of food policy and the public shopping policy to help reduce carbon dioxide production and transport, and to help consumers get better information about food source. Now, as we have seen, the aim is to make agrienvironmental policy that I understand should be seen the next spring. It was a 17-way strategy to promote food security, provide protection of livestock stocks and improve the competitiveness of domestic production. I'd like to ask the secretary how this policy and strategy has been implemented so far. Then I'd like to ask the minister about the Food Fund, where it's saved now that may not be of food production and was formerly in the Product Fund. I'd also like to ask the minister what lies ahead on customs. There's been a bit of a discussion in the media, and here at the Senate Hall on fraud and bullying that may be in how things are tolled, whether the meat has bones or not, because we know, of course, that the difference may be great. What are the following steps in this regard? I'm gonna make this work in the first round.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u246	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the details she enters. I've never mentioned anything before. I've been on a project called home-wage. There is tremendous interest in this in farmers, and we are working with them to bring it about. I suppose that this fall will be a step forward. We're moving closer to the reality of this. I feel that the monarchy is responding to the interest in them, and all I know is that cooperation is going well. An action plan related to a change in the import of meat is very successful. Most of the projects, if not all, are under way, and many have become reality. The greatest project, and the greatest challenge, has been successful, i.e. Defenses against antibiotic resistance, which I and the health minister have very good cooperation in building up and have taken major steps there. Food fund's saved in the Ministry. It's a unit of two funds, Product Fund and Research Fund for the added value of marine products, the AVS Fund. Then this addition comes in now, 500 million this year, and then 250 million in the pack. This is about 650 billion. K. The wealth and interest in him are great and full of ambitious and good work. The customs issue is that they are saved at the Ministry of finance. However, questions about them are always directed to the Department of Agriculture, which does not involve custody. But I know that the Secretary of finance has started working on a number of things that have been directed to the State and that I don't know better than it's in good shape.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u247	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. There was one thing I felt like I was standing out for. I was reading about the Food Fund, and I'm glad to hear how much and good it is after it, but it's food - related only. The supply fund was supportive of something that may not have been directly related to food, and that is what I wondered about. Will it be out of the way? Where does it land? Is it in some other fund or something? It's good to hear that these strategies and policies we were discussing are going well. Then I'm going to continue to ask with the actions, "How's it going to introduce them? " Then I ask about the agricultural contracts that have been made and face a lack of carbon, in view of the fact that only next year on emissions, we're going to contract from 624 kilotons to 585. Also, I would like to ask the minister if he envisions an increase in digital solutions, one of the financial goals involved, i.e. to increase digital solutions in MAST monitoring, thus improving the quality of the ministry and hopefully reduce costs. I'm still going to say, like others here, because I like others, of course, got to hear it from farmers, that the budget of a financial program because of a framework deal on farms would probably have been more like so many other things. Finally, I would like to ask if the minister does not believe that he is an additional tool to support growing grain, thus reducing the need for imported food, thereby adding to food security, and further supporting the management center of the agricultural sector, as we know, a key role for his advice on reducing emissions and looking into them. research on potential new species, e.g. to make food.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u248	A respectable president. That was a lot of questions. I don't know how a panel meeting at the VG is going, if they can answer anything in such a short time, it's an accomplishment. Hv. One senator asked if only food - related food - related funds would be left out. Not necessarily. It is four parts of this fund, and surely some of the previously included in other funds or may be supported under it. But I would point out that the main purpose, e.g. the law on the agricultural industry was promoting and promoting increased and improved food production, the innovation in that area. This has somehow moved on to other factors, but I would show them that there are plenty of other funds that could be collected. The government is adding a tremendous amount of money to other funds for the building of employment, and I think that people can consider what they can do there. Yes, I agree that climate matters are important, and they're in the market agreements. I don't know exactly how that works. We at the Department of Agriculture have a good partnership with the Environment Ministry, with farmers, with RML and other bodies. The goal is that the herd and the herding of cattle would be a total of 2040 non-carbon components, accomplished, and all I know is that men are focused on that matter. We're looking at digital solutions, not just at MAST, but more into our system. Of course, the money in the system can be greater. It's a contract that goes to 2026. I'll take it completely if a financial committee knows something of the loose money, we're not going to be able to accept it. But so far it has not been, and the reasons why the deal was made this way at the time are there, and in this respect it may even be. to be explained by the change in financing and in terms of RML. Changes were made at the time. [[The president calls.]] RML is a company owned and run by the Farmers, but we have put up with supporting the work there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u249	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers into the emissions of greenhouse gases from agriculture and the government's efforts to stop it. On page 18. The 255 will be listed by the President's permission: It is estimated that agriculture is responsible for 578 kt. of CO 2-values or 12% of total emissions from Iceland have remained virtually unchanged. 30 years. Land use is then not taken into account. - This is a point I want to talk about specifically, land use. The plan also shows that the government's first objective and measure when it comes to terms of climate-based agriculture, with the permission of a president, would be required to improve greenhouse gas emissions from the activities of this article. Here I wondered, " Is the government only at a critical point when it comes to reducing emissions of greenhouse gas into agriculture because we know that estimated emissions from the most advanced wetlands amount to some 9.3 million tons, and bad land is estimated to be loosed from 20 to 20 million tons? ' Why are these huge emissions ignored in Ministerial planning? Why are there no standards? Is it not vain to talk only about the need for us to consider what was going on when we know and the answers are in front of us? Is it not much more time for action when we are about to remove the most wetlands and evil soil?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u250	A respectable president. You're right. According to one Parliament, there are measures and targets for greenhouse gas emissions in this agricultural programme. I suppose that, and I don't know any better than it is for the first time since that government took over as its goals are set out in the way that there is. It should be acknowledged that knowledge of that area in order to set such goals has not been great and is not large, neither within this article nor in the administrative system. It's just a fact. It is not long since the government introduced its plans in this regard. In that room, the agriculture, or the Ministry, has eight operations. On the other hand, I would like to stress that both in the sheep trade and in the herding of cattle, both the farmers and the government are putting together very well, and we have set goals for them to be noncarbonized in the year 2040. That may well be the problem. A senator has no ambition to make that statement, but it simply became an agreement because both parties of this agreement met the reality so that we needed that time to achieve it. The projects there were set up are funded, and I want to emphasize that there is a great interest in prayer in accepting such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u251	A respectable president. In the recent article Eyþór Eðvarðsson of the Core, we find criticism of the government's action program on climate change. It says, by permission of the President: The plan can be greatly improved, and it would have two major factors: 1st Create a system that makes landowners recover or disrupt wetlands by stopping or shutting them down completely. So get the water back in the soil so that the oxygen will be removed from it. 2. Immediately, sheep feed the areas where vegetation cannot handle its use and take specific measures to improve the growth of the epithelium. With cooperation with landowners and farmers, this can be effectively solved. This must be the case with the government. It can be better if it's enough.How much better if it's enough? I agree with a writer, so I want to ask the highest. Minister: Does he not believe this to be an action that would seem to be part of this program and a minister should be heading for it? Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because we're talking about a climate action programme in this context, in terms of a discrepancy that I see in the strategy published in June 2020, a very short time ago, and this financial plan. The programme estimates that reductions in greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced to 575,000 tons of CO 2-inclusive in 2030, with a financial projection expected to drop to 550,000 tons by 2025. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is a financial program so much optimistic and ambitious than this newly developed plan, a mistake, or what explains this large difference in plans?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u252	A respectable president. First of all, it's what it's all about. A senator mentions the development of land and canal. The Department of Environment is working on the environment, and I think most of the projects involved are involved. I don't know the exact position of it, since this job is not inside my desk, i.e. and to do what I shall say, bring it down in a ditch again. When the other point is mentioned, which has to do with the ban on sheep farms in a land where there is little tolerance, whether it is time to do so as Eyþór's assessment, I would like to mention that in progress there is a project called GóLind, which is discussed on page 6. 256 in the target - target explanation - the situation was presented two or three months ago - merely trying to map the whole country with resistance. There is an enormous task in cooperation with all those involved, and hopes are placed on the basis of the project that there will be a way to direct in the country far beyond what has been done so far. Then some area could be opened and closed. I consider this work to be a great role model, and we have fully financed it. I'm sorry, I don't know how to explain the discrepancies. A senator brings up the issue of emissions. I can try to find some explanations, but I don't have them to handle.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u253	A respectable president. Here we are discussing budget and budgets for 2021, and I would like to clear up the agricultural sector. It is a pleasure to see in the budget that projects related to protection against antibiotic resistance are within the box and will continue to be worked on the course approved by the General Assembly in the spring of 2019. In addition, it is a pleasure to have higher donations in relation to the revision of the garden agreement with the aim of increasing production over the next three years. This is 200 billion. K. In connection with horticulture production, the project is part of the government's investment campaign to reduce the economic decline in a pandemic. This pandemic raises new needles and other priorities. Inland food production is important, and it may never be as important as it is in the present situation. Then I'll only come to customs. Feeding is a discussion that is regularly taken up. Like the Icelandic sheep, popular advocates of liberalism are gruelingly protected by commercial agricultural products. All you have to do is spit in your hands and go to market campaigns and innovations, that's the perfect market. During the council work today, I became a subject of inconsistency in numbers about the exporting of agricultural goods from the EU to the country and talking about importing into Iceland's Habitats. This difference requires explanation and, in fact, is very serious, if true, and illegal. I realize the customs aren't in the agricultural sector, but I still want to ask the highest level. Agricultural minister, for it should be high on his level to observe that it is all right: Can you find the place in the budget to promote customs monitoring so that it works powerfully?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u254	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of this speech. It's about the tolls that go off. I would like to emphasize what was presented in the senator's case that they are under another department. Their management and decisions on customs and working with them are in the field of another government. Because this is a question of whether it's part of the plan to promote customs, I'm not going to comment on the way the Ministry of finance intends to work on customs and surveillance there. Simply put, others must answer. All I know is that when I went to the secretary of finance and the Ministry to add work to the customs and surveillance, it was very well received, and the minister put them on a job that was long ago timely, so I expect it to be done with a shock and to have no reason to think otherwise. Regarding the tax on food that has been mentioned here and that there is some liberalism in it, I'm just going to reduce the intensity. The senator stated that it was not the liberals who concluded the last agreement on customs with the European Union and introduced it, that it was not a free-minded person. I'm not a liberal to be informed here. I'm a conservative of the old school, but I can absolutely say that it was not the liberals who were involved in that contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u255	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Although it may not have been liberals who presented this agreement, it is very important to adopt it at this time. I just want to remind you that it was designed to make new opportunities for them to carry out goods and perhaps for the manufacturer of the food, farmers. However, there has been no intention of exporting Icelandic products for customs barriers in Europe, so we are making negotiations with countries that build customs and I think there is absolutely reason to respect it here in Iceland as well. I'd like to go to seabeds. It is a pleasure to see the emphasis found in a bill for financial purposes on the seabed. Fish fishing should be improved and induction is suggested by a team of workers on improved fish control of the resource and should also increase funding for the Food Fund, which will continue to strengthen innovation and development projects. Then there are estimated funds for a new fish farm, which is designed to help build timber in areas where fish farms are practiced and thereby strengthen communities and support jobs in areas where fish farming is practiced. This development is already under way, and the rural communities themselves represent that structure. In today's economic depression, fishing is one of the main sources of employment to reach the country again. This is valuable work, both for women and for men, and for a large amount of currency. Last year, a plan came into play in consultation with the fish farm fund. The law says that the government of the fund should be put in place and established. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Ministers when to expect the fish farm to begin working and what is needed to get that work started. Where is she?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u256	A respectable president. I think we need to try to get out of talking about shops and farmers as opposers because this is what we're talking about. I believe that the domestic food contact between the manufacturer and the manufacturer needs to be stronger and better than ever before. I know that there's an interest in making so much money that it can be. I think that's a matter of principle. I would also like to mention that it is in my line of action plan, that there is a report on customs protection that I expect to be introduced soon. In terms of the fish farm fund, we first need to get money before we can take it out of it and take it on the budget that it is coming and the job is to prepare it just after the events, as they say, when things are going to a certain place. It's been working on, and I don't know that we're supposed to be ready, once the funds have arrived, to advertise for applications.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u257	A respectable president. It has been interesting to listen to the discussion today, and other things have been brought out, including the following: The political emphasis on the members of the board. After the last answer, it is quite clear that greater freedom is not to be expected in the important sector of agriculture. Then, most of all, I think about freedom to farmers, freedom to rule myself. You can call it any name, whether it be called liberalism or radical liberalism or whatever it is, but I think it is very important that farmers get the opportunity to take responsibility for their own lives and decide for themselves how they act. In that case, I think it's very important to have very much green motivation. We have many ways of wanting, if anything, for as long as we have green catalyses, green solutions, but we're going to consider expanding markets. I think it's one of the best ways to support increased food production, that we expand the market. That means we need to look outside, not just inwards. And there are other things we naturally need to do. There's one thing I especially want to ask the highest. Minister to. An international report has shown that consumers in Iceland, consumers in this country, pay the highest price for agricultural products. I don't think there's necessarily a disagreement among the public that we pay well for agricultural products. But it's worse, and it's not cool for the public, that Icelandic farmers have all the slackest interest in OECD. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: What's the ultimate plan? Ministers to do, because I don't see a sign in the budget, nowhere, not to improve the ideal farms, whether in gardening, in herding, or in sheep growing, or in helping consumers to get only a better price than they now have?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u258	A respectable president. Thank you. Her visit to this discussion was made by a senator. Speaking of freedom that farmers long for, and having in many ways because people choose employment, prefer to farm, that's the first choice we can say that people have, the freedom to choose. I don't think there's any myth in believing that a man would choose for many reasons, for example. To do sheep's house. You hear interviews with sheep farmers and conversations with them as they say: It's more lifestyle than a question of growth. In this regard, I mention that there are some things that are being done and that have been done that promote freedom. I'm just going to mention the adaptable agreements in the sheep market, where producers, they've also been offered cattle breeding producers, can choose in what way they can use the support available. I'm going to name a project that's very small, which, on its own, encourages it and turns it to do the homework, allowing sheep to slaughter and win meat. I will also mention the garden that has been promoted in a review of agreement with garden farmers. Thus, there are many factors that have been involved. A senator makes it a subject and is very important, giving people a chance to handle their affairs more effectively rather than being tied to some government chain. In many respects, I agree that the market is urgent. But I'm still saying that it must be next to you to expand your share of Icelandic production on a domestic market. If we look e.g. Only on the vegetative product that has been brought together in a market share in recent years is there full of opportunities because the loyalty of consumers to Icelandic production is enormous. I would have believed it would be better and easier for the Icelandic producer to work the market here than to attack the larger markets.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u259	A respectable president. It is absolutely essential to support Icelandic agricultural production. I ask: For what benefit is a system that keeps farmers down when it comes to their choice? Then the Independence Party has just started to re-phrase freedom if freedom is to result in the loss of Icelandic farmers in international comparison. It's a bad system, and I'd like to make it up to you if you'd like to help us build up the Icelandic agricultural product. But then there's the other, and then I come to my other question related to the fishing road: There is now a review of the constitution, including On the resource principle. The budget has been set up on the part of the government, including the chairman of the Independence Party. It is my knowledgeable resource restrictions that do not trust the nation's rights, which do not share the nation's share in fishing resources. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is not concerned that the development of this resource directive will continue to be disparageable in the community on this enormously important industry. It is important that we accept it both within articles, but while we do not have a temporary agreement into the resource problem, I fear that the problem will continue. We can also see that, and we've experienced it during this election period, in fact, that the government groups have repeated our proposals for temporary negotiations. There are temporary contracts to trust the National Association of Fishing Resources. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is not deeply concerned that we are going to be talking about a set of resources that will further exasperate the nation's differences instead of putting down years of controversy, putting down disputes in a way that might be in line with the bill that would be in line with the then Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, stated in her own time, which in fact included temporary agreements. All classes at the General Assembly agreed to this, except one category. It was the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u260	A respectable president. When it is said that the Independence Party was against temporary agreements, that is not at all the right thing to do. I'm going to take less of it. A senator says we were sitting in the government together. And in the government covenant of that government, it was a requirement to adopt discussions, talks, and work with temporary agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u261	It turned out that there was one group at the convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u262	That was a law in a government covenant. [[Up front.]] Then it was the responsibility of others to handle their affairs. There may be some explanation as to why men sailed along the beach with it. I'm not going to get involved here in a financial discussion. Regarding keeping down the ideal farmers, the policy and the intention of the Independence Party, "What discussion is that? " How's that fall? A senator intending to attribute certain political parties to wanting to keep people in line?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u263	Then change...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u264	That's not a fair approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u265	Then change...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u266	That's certainly not a fair approach to the subject, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u267	V.E.G. Minister has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u268	And it is not for anyone to discuss agriculture in such a way as to believe that it is the will of some political entity to maintain the ideal class. All right, I'll hold on. A senator also discuss in what manner of the Independence Party in this case, making it particularly a subject for discussion, works hard to keep the terms of the people at ease. This is an indistinguishable approach to the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u269	The system says so. Reports say so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u270	A respectable president. We're dealing with the affairs of the marine eco-efficiency and agricultural ministers. The problem of the present coastal fishing system is not identified in the coverage of the 13th seabed. We may see best in the fall how inflexible the system is. There's enough fishing left, but a minister says he can't afford to fish. Really, there is nothing to be done to prevent such conditions after one year, e.g. to increase free beach fishing, if that's convenient? It's very good for the settlements of the country. In the second part, I want to enter the salmon fire, salmon lice plague, and contamination from salmon farms. Natural strains of salmon and trout are in danger of being permanently damaged because of this. So I ask, What are the plans for the future in delicate places, to set and make for the land of fish farming? The other thing I'd like to know, too, is about payment. There's a significant price to pay for a fire permit in Norway. Is there anything similar here that those who want to go to the salmon farm pay properly for it the same way they do it in Norway? What arrangements are made to make sure that fire pollution does not harm Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u271	A respectable president. Right away. A senator debates that there is a problem with the current coastal fishing system, i.e. That where there is enough to hunt, why not just increase shore fishing indicates that there is trouble. A senator has no understanding of the system at all. It is sustainable in the fishing industry in Iceland, which is based on the proposed total resources of the Marine Research Institute. This total power is determined by a seafaring minister, and this has been done for a long time on the basis of the proposal of the Avenium Research Institute. It has the best information available. I expect me and what. A senator would agree to put into practice that way. Of these total volumes, a fixed percentage is taken in a local rat of 5.3%. Under these are the coastal fishing, and there are tons of tons. When it comes to its bound, there is no more for that pot. In the same way, it is in the catcher that after man hunts for what is left there, there is nothing more. That's how the system is built up. Wait a minute. This is how a senator looks at these sources each year. As for salmon fire, we're filming a particular model. We support scientific counseling and research, and we strive to avoid pollution, genetic preparation, etc. The country's fire has been under discussion. But we are also working on the basis of an arrangement that has already been established, and the new system assumes it. This year's payout began. New admissions will be received. It's the same system as Norway. So we are moving in to make sure that the money in the state will be made to them by this new, powerful industry that will be its future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u272	A respectable president. This fishing system, the coastal fishing system, and so forth, is a work of men, and it is not engraved in a stone tablet that cannot be moved. We're in such a situation right now, Covid situation, that we need to increase our jobs, and there's a way to make up for it without putting all kinds of fish stocks at risk. We've got a system we've created, and there's got to be some flexibility in it. Then a minister does not answer the question of how he intends to ensure that nature is allowed to enjoy the doubt of natural salmon and trout because of salmon lice and other pollutions that come from the fire. I'd like to ask, in the end, about vegan farmers. What is being done to really increase production in vegetarians? I've had it twice in Bronson that when I ask for aguar, she doesn't exist because suppliers can't get it. So I ask you, what's going on, if there's a problem getting here aguar? I also ask: Is it really being helped to increase production by sponsors or by the elements? Because it tells itself that food security and sustainability must be something we want to do. And there is no need, for as we have seen, a certain portion of the farm is a total low - paying profession, allowing death to go out of its shell. Something has to be done. It sucks that we have some tough people who want to do things well but can't because the system is so inflexible. Nothing can be done because the system says so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u273	A respectable president. The whole system is a man's work, that's exactly what it is. Right away. Says one senator: There must be a way to add literature. Yeah, I'm sure it's possible. But I don't have the knowledge to say that we don't put any harm in it. That's why I can ask you why. A senator would want to add 1,000 tons or 10,000 tons or something, depending on his human emphasis on what, but not on any scientific advice. The fundamental thing to witness to our products abroad is that we somehow base our decisions on scientific counseling and research, but not on how politicians think of setting the market for each one just for the better. It doesn't work like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u274	...the flexion in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-06-4.u275	The viola in the system has been that we have a whole new source for the pot, including the pot. to move into the beach fishing, from linefalling, etc. How are we going to make sure that nature enjoys the doubt? We are probably the first nation that has adopted the risk assessment of genetic mixtures to try not to guarantee the geneticisation of wild strains with natural strains. At least it's a device we're trying to make use of. The marine and coastal areas are also under way. We've set up a Risk Management Board. We have named the Committee of Specialist, objective scientists who are going to study everything the scientists of the Winters are doing, etc. We're trying to make an effort. For vegetable farmers and how to increase production. I'm just going to give you an example. I recently visited Smokeholt in Bishops. There's a plan for a large increase in production. There are huge investments in grapples, tomatoes, and flowers. Farmers there are optimistic. Naturally, they are at times concerned about their working environment, etc. and that's perfectly normal. But the will of humans following the new garden agreement, which provides increased support, encourages investments, and it is expected to increase production.
