ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u1	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee board on the bill for the surrogacy of Iceland's Marine Protection Program, from a greater part of the General and Education Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and received to Ragna Bjarnadóttir and Dagm Sigurðardóttir of Justice, Sverrir Jónsson, Sara Lind Guðbergsdóttir, and Pétur Jónasson from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Árni Freyr Sigurðsson, Úlfar Jónsson, Magnús Ingi Finnbogason, Daði Örn Gerisson and Jóhann Baldur Finnbogason from Iceland's Air Forces Air Forces Society, Georg Lársson, Lárusson, Mjóðnsdjörnóðldjörn, M. Sverrisdóttir, and FríðaAðalgeirsdóttir from Iceland from Iceland and Aðalsteinn, Iceland'Leifsson, Iceland. The committee received a review of the case from Iceland's Air Force Association. The bill suggests that the actions of Iceland's Air Action Association for Air Forces in the United States due to the actions of Air Forces at Iceland's National Reservation Guard will be prohibited as soon as it becomes legal. They should refer to a debate between financial and economic ministers on behalf of the government funds and Iceland's Air Action Association as a formality if they have not signed a dress contract on January 4th, 2021. In February 2020, the U.S. Air Force Convention of the National Guard ran out on December 31, 2019, and began a discussion of a new contract. Iceland's Air Action Association announced an October strike program, and a strike began on November 6th. This will be discussed in more detail in the introduction, motive, and need of the bill. As told by Iceland's Air Action Association to the Committee, serious comments are made that will end the strike operations by legislation. It means that freedom of the agreement and of the criminal rights of the Society should be met by the Constitution and the international agreements as stated by Article 74. The constitution and Article 11. European Convention of Human Rights. With law No. 17/2010, workers were banned based on the loss of Iceland's Air Action Association in Illelands Corp. which began on March 22, 2010. In a panel of more part of the transport committee on the bill, as per Council 483 of 138 C.E., it said: ▪ The more important factor, the principle is that the parties of collective agreements conclude agreements with each other. But when necessary, the intervention of the government may be justified. The need for the bill discussed here is shown in a report that the strike measures have now led to the lack of functional helicopters or aircraft at Iceland's National Reservation Guard. It is an emergency that protected both sailors and the public. In the affairs of the D.A. for several councils and State Marshals since November 18th. reports that if there are no rescue helicopters available in the country, there will be a serious situation, especially for crew and passenger ships, when there are no other means of rescue at sea. The majority of them have an understanding of the viewpoint of the importance of freedom of agreement and strike rights and believe that it is generally not desirable for the lawgiver to intervene in a legal dispute. However, such an intervention may be necessary. In the case under consideration, the larger part considers that there is a need and that the safety warrants the legislation. According to this, the majority suggest that the bill be passed on. Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, an officer on the committee, agrees with this. Under the committee, the writer listed here, Páll Gunnlaugsdóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Ármannsson, Silja Dög Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Þóra Örjörður Gunnugadótir, and Þórstein Sæmundsson
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u2	A respectable president. Rarely, one is caused by two disputes. Often, it is possible to assume that when two parties share, the responsibility is a little on both sides. However, I have not heard any Minister here, nor one member of the head of state taking responsibility for his part in this dispute. This is where they all point each other. The National Guard says that there is no party in this business dispute. Minister of Justice claims that he was not directly involved in this dispute. Still, she gives us a bill about the ban on this dispute, so someone is part of it, but there is no responsibility, according to the highest degree. Minister. Are we going to point the responsibility to the Ministry of Communicatives Committee? Do officials have the ultimate responsibility for the part of the State in this matter? No, it must be that government that is responsible for the position that has come up, that we are on Friday night to impose a ban on the work done by people who have an unequivocal right to a strike. But no one will come up here and take responsibility for this most serious situation. I must say that I considered taking the responsible stand to sit by and not taking responsibility for this evil game of the government and not preventing the restoration of necessary safety devices. That's what I thought was responsible for what I thought was a dispute between two parties. And since two disputes are rarely the cause. However, I saw it while I was sitting at a marathon meeting of the General and Education Committee at the highest level. The prime minister makes a trip on television of all the people of the land, blocking the modern - day strike rights to which we are shutting down. Says she wants a governor to be authorized to postpone a strike on her own, avoiding the inconveniences we're in here, to set a ban on strikes. It is naturally embarrassing for a government to have had ten months to negotiate and not yet have a contract. Uncomfortable, extremely difficult to stand here and throw down all responsibility, talk about it being not on its side, pointing in all directions, taking no responsibility. Uncomfortable. Perhaps it'd be better to put it on the table next to the statesmen. He's so used to this kind of work dispute anyway. He must be able to decide when to delay a strike and when it is not possible to do so. Get this thing out of us. I must say, when I heard that news, a respectable president, I was shocked. And I realize that it's supposed to be this trip to weigh the strike rights of working people, such a fast Friday night in a business dispute that may not be the most prominent in society, to make light, little suggestion to take off working people's rights to strike, to destroy this important tool. I have to say, after seeing this, the cards are set up; they're supposed to use this trip to weigh the basic rights of working people, just like this, so we don't have to be in this uncomfortable situation again, I'm on a burning no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u3	A respectable president. This is not the position that any of us would like to be in, I think, to have to stand in the event of a strike. This is the strongest weapon the labor movement has ever seen. But here is a medical emergency. That's what happened to you. The head of the General and Education Committee then made it very clear that we will not be finished with the committee at the meeting on this issue. The situation has become a matter of having an effect, as has been seen in the director of the QA program, until February, just from what we are facing today. As he said, it would be bad if it lasted longer and things were not stopped now. Of course, it is disappointing to be unable to negotiate because the negotiation table is to solve these matters, not just these but all of them and many of them have been resolved, over 60 contracts have been made in recent times. This matter, however, is hard to deal with, and it seems that it is difficult to cut down on that knot. I was disappointed to see in the review of an aviation man's declaration that it is not enough to negotiate. If that is really the case, we would have been looking beyond that time, we can conclude that tomorrow or the other, it would not have been achieved. However, even though there will be a strike law, people can continue talking, and that will be the state struggle, trying to find new friends, and making peace with their partners at the time ahead. It is not for us to go into the negotiations as such. Rather, we need to respond to a crisis in the national security sector whether these are sailors or people throughout the scattered areas. It is wintertime, and even a storm has passed, and something else that the goose has so often had to interrupt and come to help. Now it's not possible, and that's just not how we can have it. We cannot offer it to our people. That is why we are in such a situation, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u4	A respectable president. One of the most important roles of the State at any given time is to secure the country. Now there's no chopper ready to go in the air if somebody calls for it. Even if the bill was to be written right now, only two helicopters would be available for ten days in December. The effect of the strike will be maintained for the next weeks and months. In terms of my 1st part, the unacceptable situation that has come up entirely under the responsibility of the government. The first smaller item highlights the protection of the wage contract in accordance with Article 74. The constitution and Article 11. The European Convention of Human Rights, making it clear that there is a great need for a legal intervention. It's the responsibility of a contract to make deals. If they fail to do so, there are various laws to force a decision to be made. All such routes must be fully updated before the intervention of the legislature can be considered. Courts have not refused that the legislatator intervenes in a dispute so as to be at stake with public interest or economic disaster. In this regard it is proper to refer to the court of the Supreme Court in the ASI case against the state, as No. 167/2002, where judicial requirements for the definition of public interest and clear evidence are stated, for such intervention to be considered justifiable, including Pointed in detail to legal evidence. Part 1 considers the role of the legislature to weigh whether the public interest in this subject is sufficient for legislation on the rights of the people to fight for their rights and rights. It is estimated that part 1 is not fully developed yet that negotiations could succeed. However, the national security and health of the country are at great risk to the public's interests. And we don't have much time. A smaller portion, therefore, is hardly preconceivable to vote against this legislation and will therefore sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u5	A respectable president. The details of tonight's discussion are serious and dramatic, but at the same time absolutely necessary. The public's interests simply require that this step be taken today. It is for the reasons that the Council of Meetings supports this matter. We observe such an emergency that each hour could be relevant to national security. Under such a view, the need for this step is so urgent that it must be taken, that the security of the people on the sea and on the land demand it, as well as the understanding known from a judicial hearing that the right of the strike is certainly fundamental and essential, is never without exception, nor can he pressure the interests of people's lives to be put at risk. Is it my position that I'm paying this bill my vote because it includes support for the government's political actions in preventing us from being in this position? No. This problem did not arise this morning, and he did not come up yesterday; he did not come up last week or last month. We are certainly watching, apparently, and, in fact, we have received confirmation, a very difficult and heavy tweezle debate, which had come to the point of a strike being broken on. But the big issue in this context is the best interests they see in the public. V.E.G. In this hall earlier today, the Minister of Justice said that it was not acceptable for one class to have the power to put the fortune into the position we all know tonight. The other side of it is, of course, that since the goose is in that position, the public is in the position that its safety is not guaranteed. How disappointing it is, then, that when a minister of justice brings up this bill, it does not immediately reveal that it has some action in its Ministry to handle this problem permanently. She won't. V.E.G. At the same time, the minister of justice does not present together with any action she will take over a longer period of time. She immediately reveals that she was not ready, not prepared for this position. We should have seen some more progressive steps in that direction. So the safety side and safety concerns we're hearing about today are the basic reasons for this process not to seem to be high on the priority list, but we don't see any particular evidence that this situation should be solved with the understatement. The minister of justice specifically insists that he was the main problem in this dispute. The answer lies in putting laws on the line now when we are not only close to us but also alert to all of us. I don't think this is a good testimony to a job management at the Justice Department, since the basic role of national rights is to protect and protect the interests and safety of the public. Our stand is, as is the fact that this serious intervention now is absolutely necessary in the light of circumstances and there is no other way, but our estimate is that legal management in the matter raises large, unpleasant questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u6	A respectable president. My first thought when an invitation came to a council and the law on a strike was: "No, don't do it, the right to strike is sacred, it's protected, and we're supposed to try everything we don't make a law against it. But the question was, Can you sit down at such a time? I don't think it's acceptable. In the condition of the National Guard, with helicopters that are essential to calling if necessary, you have to take a stand. After reviewing the case from all sides, listening to all those who came to the General Information and Education Committee, it's clear to me: I have to take a stand. My attitude is yes. I'm gonna back it up, and I saw it on the information we got on the General and Education Committee that there's no baloney going on over there with the Cabinet Committees, there's a little leaf, loose bow. You need to sit down and find the end of this bow, and that's it. There's not much between you and me, but there's something wrong that needs to be solved. It's supposed to be possible to solve it, and I really hope it happens. They have it in February to resolve this issue, and that is to be enough, and hopefully it will succeed by contracts. But as I say, I have to support this case, both because of the information I got and also because we can't risk this because there can be a life at stake there. We must make sure that this situation does not arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u7	Mr. President. It is not easy for us to decide to compromise, for the right to strike is truly important to the wage. In order to do so, it must be fully tested that negotiations will not be reached at this time and that it is absolutely necessary to be legal. At a meeting of the General and Education Committee, I was strengthened in my belief that this was a legal situation, and it was shown in the state's issue that it would not be any further, that negotiations would be fully developed, and that there was an urgent need for disaster at the National Guard. That's why I and I, as members of the VG Congress, vote with this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u8	A respectable president. As noted in my case earlier today, there are unprecedented conditions in society and there are many ways to criticize the failure of the government. Today, it's about national security. Contracts, especially governments and its negotiation committees, might have had to be more effective in achieving contracts. But if it's true that one of the government's requirements is to break up with the foundation of aerosolists have had to deal with other Air Forces agreements and the requirement for an agreement to be met is to reimburse the absolute, I think. A respectable president. If this law is approved, it's still time to negotiate on the new year, and I encourage parties to use Christmas spirit and negotiate, try to achieve contracts. The Party of the Central Party will vote for this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u9	A respectable president. As part of the Governing Body, it has been said that because of the importance of payman's strike rights and the emergency that has developed today, it is difficult for them to legalize a strike. It's a responsibility to put law on strike. But they do not take any responsibility for the ten months that have passed since treaties have failed, nor do they take any responsibility for the fact that there is now a law on strike to ensure safety of the people of the land. It identifies everyone except the person who stands in putt when it comes to taking responsibility for the position that exists. Now it seems to be time for the trip to undermine the strike rights of the workers, to submit the authority for the postponement of strike operations to the state of the Union, to sneak it in just before the weekend. I'm not going to participate in this quest, a respectable president. The Pirata House doesn't either. We vote against this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u10	President. The majority believe that, in general, the strike rights are not to be interrupted, but they do so and have an emergency. It is indeed an emergency that must be solved but to use the General by setting a law because the government could not fix the problem and prevent an emergency in ten months, to use the Allied government in this way to cut off the government from its own snare, it is unacceptable. I've been in this same position before, on the other side of the table, a law on a strike I was in. This is a repetition of the council's tragic decision. Here the government shows a lack of custody, and it put herself in it, creating these excuses so that it can be used simply the same trick as before. It's really black Friday today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u11	Mr. President. At any given time, the government should avoid intervening with legal issues, which are protected by the contract of the worker of the Constitution and of the European Convention of Human Rights. Reaching contracts is the responsibility of a party, but the government has not been responsible for that responsibility. The more serious situation that has developed in the national security of the nation is under the administration of the government. The government slept on guard. The government should have done better and prevented an emergency from forming. We in the United States don't vote for the bill. Legalization is the responsibility of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u12	Mr. President. We're here to vote on a ban on the strike of the U.S. Administrative Guard Air Force. Why? Because there is an emergency because there is security. And why do people's safety depend on them? Because the Minister of Justice and the Government have not carried out their assignment, because they have neglected to sharpen the laws on the National Guard, on its role, and on the role of staff. They have neglected to ensure that the safety program is held. That's why we're here. It is, in our opinion, the simple matter of paying our vote for the position we are in because of the position of public interest. However, the political responsibility that this unwanted intervention by the Generals in a strike operation is necessary, and it is on the shoulders of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u13	A respectable president. It's simple. It is difficult for all of us to put laws on an Air Force strike, as we suggest to do today's work. But it is quite clear after the discussion that has taken place, both today and at a meeting of the General and Education Committee, that this time no further agreements were made, and the security of the citizens of the country is being threatened by a strike at the airports. Therefore, the House of forwarders votes for legal action.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u14	A respectable president. I want to use this opportunity to thank the senators for having responded so fast and so well to the bill and what. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for her work today. It is clear that the situation had become very serious, but with the release of this bill, it is now possible that aviators will immediately come to work, and the U.S.A. Air Force will eventually become a normal business, and rescue helicopters will be available, hopefully, at the latest Sunday. This law was not implemented until it was fully tested yesterday and it was clear that negotiations were not achieved. That was the natural approach, for, of course, all of us would like to first try to achieve agreements in the business matters and by means of the state line, which may not be better. A compromise proposal was proposed from a non-supervised state of state. In the meantime, it was urgent to put a bill before the council, and this has happened quickly. The work of the Ministry of Justice has been very fast. I'd like to thank the employees there for having responded favorably. Since last night's contracts didn't finish, the bill could appear right now. I'd also like to thank them for responding promptly to the bill for changing the national security law so that, of course, I would deny that a legal case at the Ministry of Justice to respond to this position is lacking. It is not only a state of state to indulge in such contracts but also a representative of the professions who have had a strong contract with the means to be flexible. Everyone must, and everyone must be responsible. That's what I do with this bill. I'm not going to say anything any more, Mr. Honorable President, but thank you to the council, for having responded so quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u15	Madam President. The General Assembly has been placed against a wall here this evening because the government did not work properly on this issue for the past ten months. It was their responsibility to do so, their responsibility that it would not come to make matters worse on this black Friday tonight. With their comments in the evening news, it was the best thing to do. The early prime minister of the past on that black night makes me burn like my council tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u16	Mr. President. I wonder why I hear what I'm saying. Porta's members are here to discuss a vote on certain laws and to include in the debates that have a long impact in the council sales and are not up for tonight and are not up for discussion in the near future, but have often been around the legalization of strikes, whether a state-of-the-state agreement should have a well set and clearly defined authority to temporarily delay strike operations if there are circumstances, such as the rest of the Northern countries. It's not supposed to surprise anyone. It's the attitude I've described many times, including... in discussions about legislation on strikes here in the Senate Hall. I don't like it, Mr. President, when certain matters are taken care of. Councilmen of this particular party choose to discuss a whole different subject of votes. I suggest that they only have a place of speech with me in question class because this matter is not on the program for this meeting and is not under the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u17	A respectable president. I don't know any better than the General and Education Committee was meeting this case, that we're discussing this case at the council today and the Supreme Court. The news media asked the prime minister that she had answered this question. That's why we bring this matter into this discussion, because it's the highest. This was arranged by the prime minister on the evening news of all the people of the country tonight and by the Morning Press, and it was associated with this discussion tonight. So I refuse to have any abnormal connections here. It's the highest. Minister to bring these connections to our level. She's the one who makes this mental connection. It is she who suggests that the right to strike is to be taken from working people. She is the one who does it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u18	Mr. President. Often, a person has seen a lawsuit in a council hall going to a low level, but rarely as already. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir comes up here accusing me of going to the strike court. It is so far from all the truth, and so far away from anything called a fair saying and must be judged itself, as in fact, the language of a man. A senator does a lot of things here. It cannot be expected that politicians will not take a perplexing discussion about the big lines of a job market when it comes to legalization of a strike, for then we will receive the nature of the case according to rolling the big picture to us. However, such a proposal has not been submitted, it is not in the Congress of this council, and it is, in the highest measure, a poor compromise by then. A senator is taking this up in the discussions about votes on a completely different subject. I'm kind of completely offended.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u19	Mr. President. This has been a discussion of the vital role of the National Reservation Guard. Under that word, I take heart. The safety of the seafarers and citizens of this country, wherever we live, under any difficult conditions and in any weather, must always be guaranteed. That would have been the best. The minister of justice should consider more closely that during the past month, shouldering the responsibility to ensure this safety. That this law here is purely about safety, I can't agree. We are taking part in putting laws on a working class and in this way removing the penalty rights of working people, rights that working people have been fighting for over a long period of time. Then it's been on top of it, to this vote, to the top. During the evening, prime minister is presented in the media and is telling a lot of news in the labour market, which is granting the state - of - state right to stop strikes. It's a complete change of direction to weaken the strike rights, as the President of ASI has expressed himself. What we are participating in at the Council now is no more than a shock to limit the possibility of working people to fight for their terms and to weaken the strike rights - the weakness of the strike rights. That's why I say no to these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u20	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u21	Mr. President. It is in the best interests of all the people of the country to have an experienced Air Force at the National Reservation Guard and to have the same interest they have in the rest of the U.S. Air Forces. But that cannot be accepted by the government. That's why we're here. This government has done a terrible job of solving bullfights. You can remember it here to the highest. A financial minister brought midwives to court and tried to earn their pay for a strike. And with a woman in the position of the prime minister, a hard - line policy was run against midwives. The government is responsible for this. Obviously, it is beyond her control. The safety of the people of the land, however, must never be confused.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u22	Mr. President. The right to strike a generation with point and eggs and sweat and tears is precious; the right to fight hard, for which many suffered rejection and ill will. It is almost sacred rights that must be removed only in extreme cases and in dire circumstances. The government's shame is on this matter, it's met dissensions and inactions. The government has previously made it a point to discuss with groups of employees who have sought a better option, groups that care for security, care, and care, and protect their citizens; given them a long nose, driven on. With the safety and interest of the inhabitants of the scattered places of my district, and of the people of all lands, I will not hinder the conduct of this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-28.u23	A respectable president. Tonight's legislation will not save the nation's serious security situation right now, so it's a bad time for the government's inaction to negotiate with the U.S. Air Force. No one doubts whether public interests are at stake, but all other means have not been proved to be a problem. Then I do not mean the bargaining table. Rather, I do have ways to ensure minimum international security management in spite of the strike. I must mention that statement of the highest degree. The prime minister, although she does not want us to associate these matters, is that a governor of state should be authorized to delay strikes. I hope that there will not be any change to the potential for working people to fight for their demands at any time, because this harsh intervention in the right working people's battles, to put the laws and force them to strike, should take place in this hall so that people will stand in front of the people when they vote with it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
