ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01.u1	Iceland's number tells: I have determined, according to the request of the prime minister, that the Council shall meet on Thursday, October 1, 2020. As soon as I publish this, at the General Assembly, everyone who has a seat is invited to come to Reykjavík for a day, and then the General Assembly will be appointed after a church service at the Court's office at the beginning of the day. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. All units, 24 September 2020. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters of the Council meeting Thursday, October 1, 2020 According to a letter I have read, I declare that the General Assembly of the Icelanders is set up. Hv. All council members. I wish you good luck in difficult jobs. I hope it will be good for the assembly, for the land, and for the people's good. More than a year has passed since the last assembly. Then there was no one who was distressed by the horrors that have befallen us. At that time, the virus had not been shaken. Then there were other issues in our mind. Everything's different now. Today, the epidemic shapes much of our lives. Here and out in the world, it has killed people. Many have become ill and continue to deal with this calamity. The virus has been protected against it. Sad to say, resentment may be accompanied by reports of various trials, increased domestic violence, anxiety, and feelings of distress. People have lost jobs, businesses, and dictators, especially in the field of tourism and shopping, culture, and recreation. Without action, however, we would have floundered. We chose to protect the lives and health of the common people as best we can. It is time for people to continue to endure, to endure, to do nothing, and to be long - suffering. How much we can learn from the older generations of this land, those who have tried at least a long time and who are not disturbed by anything! During the past few months, we Icelanders have had countless good deeds to pay. I know that I speak for an entire nation when I thank health - care professionals and their well - being. Thanks also to teachers and directors, students, cleaning companies, and anyone who saw to it that school work has been maintained, from high school to college. Then there are shoprs and service employees who are divorced, close to the rest of the day in and out. Of course, more could be mentioned who acted and acted in the national service. We will be better able to cope with the damaging power. All over the world scientists are working on vaccine products, also seeking other drugs or medicine. In Iceland, the Icelandic genetic team, the Land Hospital, and the university are involved in that work. Knowledge points the way, as well as cooperation, international cooperation and cooperation in our fine society. In fact, it may be that members of the general council, consciously and indiscernct, consult my speech during a previous session. Then I said that differences were a powerful assembly and a powerful society, that the prohibition against it was the tail of the narrow - minded, pressured tool of the tyrants. Those words are still valid, and we certainly have been able to deal with the conflicting issues of this timeless virus. So let us continue, using sound reasoning, and avoiding false reasoning. On the other hand, the history of the past few months abounds with empathy, compassion, and solidarity. The loneliness we felt was so good in the spring. Hans must continue to enjoy himself, now that winter draws near. Yes, unity can be praiseworthy; it can be a powerful motor force. On the other hand, the willingness to cooperate can also inhibit changes, leading to quietness. How sad it would be to endure it forever on important matters that are to be ignored because of the lack of full unity! Thus, in accordance with democratic government, there is no civilizing authority. Convincing can be as praiseworthy and mutual, but is it not dangerous to resist changes if they do not fully satisfy one's wishes and needs? Also, in this way, in the process of rejecting compromises and compromises, a form of independence does not seem to produce progress, choosing the worst, rather than the second. At the General Assembly, Iceland has the center of political authority. In our board of directors, as is well known, the change to the constitution here must be confirmed by a new council after the general election. A long thing could be done, huh? General council members, the origin and development of the Republic Constitution. It can be said that history begins with that those who wrote it and discussed it here at the General Assembly and elsewhere almost all imagined that it would be taken into consideration as a result of a reexamination. Over the centuries, there have been improvements, usually in good peace and not always. And the evidence can be said that by the end of the past century, the work was completed when the Constitution was last changed in a significant way. There is still work to do - always work to do. A constitution will never be mopped in stone. During winter, it will appear that some members of the council will recommend a new constitution on the basis of a legal hearing that was introduced to the council less than a decade ago and that they would later have support in the advice of a national law. Prosperities will then be carried over in the Constitution of the resources, environment and Icelandic languages, as well as changes in the fields of power and construction of the ruler. They are designed to draw a clearer picture of the kind of government that really exists but is not changing it into basics. It was good to find in the Presidency of the summer that the Icelanders are well pleased with the position of this office of our administration. Other factors fall under the General Review of the Constitution, including the possibility of a new order on how it is changed and a national law asking for a share of voters. She is therefore great at all times, the responsibility of the Generals in this respect. At present, however, it seems urgent that members of the Parliament show in practical ways that they can accept the suggestion for any change in the Constitution made available for material management. Inadequacy could even be viewed as a problem for the council. I reiterate my good wishes to you fine generals. While there are still pales in the world, we have seen the blacker and enjoy the firmness of society here. We have resources to sea, country, and pagan, not to mention the wealth of mind and hand. So let us be successful despite storms and storms. I ask the whole world of Congress to rise from their seats and remember the country. [[The senators rose up from their seats and prime minister, the daughter of Katrin, the daughter of Jacob, and said, Our whole president and earth. Iceland lives, and the senators took the word with a four-fold hurrah shout.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01.u2	I'll tell you what. Allied members and members of the General Assembly during the assembly ceremony, but this time guests are much fewer than usual because of circumstances. As a result of the protective measures and expansion of a meeting area, we are not able to welcome visitors who are normally invited to the ceremony, such as the former presidents of the Generals, the Supreme Court, and the foreign ambassadors. I present to them all the best wishes of the Generals and hope that circumstances will be different and better in a year. I expect to have a good and upbuilding cooperation with the new legislatures and to hope that our work will be a country and nation's advantage. I also greet the staff of the Generals I know, and all of us, with long experience, that will put forth effort and do all we can to make a success of the work here at the council. We are now meeting for the appointment of a new legislature over three weeks later than the Council. The reason, like so many other days and years, is a pandemic of crown virus. The economic impact of the epidemic made it possible for longer to prepare a budget and financial programme to become the first subject of a new legislation body. At the same time, the prime minister of his conference talks tonight, which is unusual, is earlier in the history of the council. The World Commission arranged a 151th legislation programme for the earlier month to agree with the government and the heads of Congress. Of course, it is important that the work programme be a significant work plan for the Generals and that members of the Parliament can plan their work well on the basis of it and weekly plans. However, we need to keep in mind that the effects of the crown virus still exist, and it is not excluded that new waves of infection will surface during winter that may interfere with the work programme. For this reason, I would like to thank the Generals and our employees for the success of the Allied Council during difficult and difficult times in the past winter and last spring. It was not by itself, and it is commendable. Also, in this regard, I call attention to the coming of the final payment on the bill, or primes for the change in the constitution, due to late elections compared to the announced election day of September 25, 2021. The last legislature of the pandemic proved to be a major event. A meeting arrangement was required to limit the number of Parliaments and then members of a hall so that distances could be kept and votes were taken in an unusual way for a long time. Later, there was an enlarged assembly area, and in those circumstances, the council now operates, i.e. The senators sit in four compartments by the chamber itself, two on each side. The pandemic also had a major impact on the international work of the Generals, which simply took place in standard form and has been carried out in the most distant part of the year. It is expected that this will continue for some time. Also needed to be consulted by members of the council, so that the regular committees of the council would be available on telecommunications. The General Commission will provide a bill for changes in the Parliament to ensure that a permanent network of committees will be available to use telecommunications under special circumstances. Also, earlier this month, the Presidency Committee agreed to make a bill of change in the state of Congress with the aim of ensuring a equal share of gender in the WCCS, such as the sex ratios allow, and in committees and advice elected by the Allied Council. A more recent review of the Parliament is in the hands of a special committee, and it may be that a bill or a bill of further changes will be submitted to the Council of the coming Parliament. Then the presidents of the political parties have considered a series of new election laws that make a turning point and is hopefully that a good solid solidarity could develop in this matter. New election law, if the bill becomes a track, will be a total law on the implementation of all the general elections, i.e. An election at the Generals, a campaign for local government, a campaign for the offer and vote of the president of Iceland and the execution of national regulations. There are many newities in the bill that make the whole campaign simpler and more efficient. Hv. Senators. A great organization is the General Assembly. There's a unique society here. The General Assembly is the location of the National Committee representatives who by their legislation and other decisions set policies and set the most important guidelines for society. The whole body is the most important topic of political and national discussions in the country. At the General Assembly, there is a high level of financial and financial resources and, above all, the Council has a very important role for monitoring and maintenance and can be a part of the investigation. At the same time, the council is the job of the office's staff. All of us here, elected agents as staff, won this nation's oldest and highest institution and want the best. Many of these are exemplary and usually do a lot of work and good. It is to make me happy that in the last study of the establishment of the year, there was an increase in the satisfaction of the workfulness of all the key factors among employees, including the experience of equality in the workplace. This can be done by members and employees to learn more about the new international website of the Generals, Hakina, which was opened yesterday. Of course, there are also better things to do. At the beginning of the year, the National Social Science Institute of the University of Iceland conducted a survey of staff and elected representatives of the Generals with special emphasis on harassment, sexual harassment, and sexual harassment. The results of the survey were striking in many ways, and they were determined to follow closely. As a result, the Allied Equal Opportunity Committee was appointed to work further and to follow the results of the survey. The committee appointed representatives of Congress and staff, two vice presidents, an office manager of the Generals and the head of staff. The Commission concluded that a prime committee agreed to assist non - Witness specialists at the General Assembly to further the process. The contracts have been canceled and the mission is to begin. They will be prepared by the methodology of economists which highlight a complete approach to the position of equality between institutions and companies using practical means of changing and improving culture, communication and working conditions. I hope that we will succeed by means of a joint campaign by the generals and the staff of the press to improve these materials here. Then there has been a considerable amount of time for review of current protocols, but this work is still being done on the Presidency Committee. Before I speak, I want to know that the government's Commission has completed a mission in the construction of an office building at the General Assembly, which will host the meeting of members of the Committee and Congress, as well as those of the members of Congress, members of the Committee and members of Congress. At the end of every legal hearing, the Council will make a deal with the lower bidder. So in the coming winter, we will see continued implementation at the General Assembly and a new office building will begin to rise as a release from a home rented by the General Assembly in a number of buildings across the East. This meeting will soon be postponed, and I would like to ask members of the council and guests to accept the occasion in the bowl. I'm waiting for the highest. Prime Minister, to take me to the front of the hall.
