ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u1	Borist has received a letter from the vice president of the Council of the Left movement of 6th. Smoke. n., Árnadóttir Þóra, will be absent in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly as a reserve for her 1 stistist on the left side list of offerers in the district Halla Gunnarsdóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u2	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state requesting every request in order to provide written answers to the requested query. 710 for the publication of international contracts, and for inquiries. 508, on war propaganda, both of Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u3	To answer, health minister, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, Environment and Resource Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers and Justice Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u4	Mr. President. It was certainly good for a minister to present yesterday's minimal change that guarantees Muhammed and a family provision, but we can ask ourselves: " Would something have been done had the people not taken the matter into their own hands? You see, the people in this country have had to save individuals in a difficult situation with their fellow believers. It is not enough that governments intervene with those who have a good network or who are moving in some way. We also need to change a system that is inflexible and unjust, and there are many things we can do. In the fall of 2017, all the presidents then held positions, apart from the Independence Party, agreed to a temporary change in foreigners and also to improve legal and administration to ensure the status of children and people in sensitive positions immediately after the election. Now 26 months have passed, and nothing has happened except that the chief minister proposed a bill that would further impair the rights and ideals of those who are looking for international protection. So I ask a minister: Will she put it aside a bill that allows members of the Parliament to improve the situation or on the Senate Committee perhaps to take a reference to the bill that makes it more difficult to repeat it, limit protest rights, reduces people's time to get data, makes it easier for them to go to Greece, and prevent candidates from getting temporary permits in Iceland on the basis of family partnerships?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u5	A respectable president. I agree with that. A senator's claim that these matters should apply equal terms as we have to ensure that. It is clear to the Lawgiver and the government to take special account of the child's interests in terms of international protection applications. We have even that. shown by various changes in regulations over the past few months, but our laws are also such. Because of what? A senator asks why the government won't intervene again, or what it takes to be intervened, so we've arranged for our case of foreigners. It's independent, and its decisions are final. She was even. Arrangement to cope with criticism, including From the United Nations Department of Refugees and the Red Cross of Iceland She has the authority to pass the decision of the Foreign Institute and is independent of them. It is important that these matters take place in a professional manner at the Foreign Institute and Department of Foreign Affairs and that there are no longer long treatments. We have made specific efforts to shorten a procedure for the people applying so that they can get better answers, yes or no. We've seen real results in that. The subjects on average spend the longest time in the treatment period are now under seven months. We want that time to go further, so there are very rare and very unique cases that go further and that continue to be treated by the government of the United States. In the case of the moment. However, within the 18 months of our release, which I have announced will be 16 months in the case of children's affairs, a member of the body mentioned here specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u6	Mr. President. Now I may have been too vague because of the highest. In no way did a minister answer the question raised by me, and I reiterate it: Will the minister put aside the bill set aside by the former Minister of Justice at council last spring, or will the Council Committee take into account what puts people in a worse position? That was the first question. Then I'd like to follow this along with another, whether a minister will set a clear policy on the children's issues and sensitive individuals who apply for protection in Iceland and whether it is ready to use to define and improve the quality of a child, as the UNICEF has suggested and applied.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u7	A respectable president. The bill that was. A senator referred to a discussion in the Parapolitan Commission earlier this fall for discussion on this subject and tips if any. To a large extent, this bill is to speed up a trial, especially protection issues. A senator mentioned in his first talk. This is where a person has been protected elsewhere. We are, for example. not sending people around, like cot. A senator mentioned, to Greece on the basis of the Order of Dublin, by which we stopped in 2010. But we send out people like other European countries that we have followed in action, such as the North countries, on the basis that people have already been protected in that country. This does not happen automatically, however, because our system is well built up that we make an individual assessment of each subject. This does not happen automatically, and it has often occurred in cases where people have been protected elsewhere that they still receive physical treatment in Iceland because they have an individual assessment. That's how we want our system to work, and that's how it works today. [[The president calls.]] It's probably building it up, and the Senate committee has already, last Friday, discussed the issues of children, and I wished that this work would continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u8	A respectable president. I'm gonna let myself begin here in this chair to commend the highest. Minister of Justice. No matter what is to be said, and there are many things to be criticized, they were important steps taken yesterday. I don't think they're big enough, but they were important, they touched one family. This is what may already be ironic, we are always faced with the need to resolve a specific issue because the Independence Party, the least that has been handled by the Ministry of Justice, does not offer solutions, offers an overall vision, and a complete change in the way the system makes us humanable. No one here is talking about uncontrolled foreigners. They're talking about humanitarian alien policy, that the system is going to be the people, they'll be more human, not that the system is just for the system itself, and some of the roughheads and recores that come with it. So as soon as I give my best commendation. Minister of Justice, I'd like to do it very much, I'd like to say to her that I'm afraid of it, of knowing the past, and now we're looking at how all this is, to the highest degree. A minister is in part an island of his own category in this regard. I'd like to let her know that she has the support of restoration in changing the law to the point that they'll be just human and human. Especially from the Red Cross, it says that this is certainly an important step - this is really just a patch - but it should not just examine once every case but especially the overall matter of family and individual life. First of all, I'm asking if it's the highest. The minister intends to apply himself in this way. Second, I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister has been summoned to a council of members of the Left Green Party to review these matters, whether a council of the left green called a minister to him to express concern and to encourage her to act on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u9	A respectable president. I might want to say it first, because of that. A member of the body mentions the change I made in the case of children in the treatment of material treatment, that it does not involve just one family. It affects several families in our system that have passed over that time. It's the unique matters we're trying to speed up, and it's important that people, as I've said before, get an answer sooner. It is the complete vision I have requested that the transnational Parliamentary Committee, established in the fall, consider. It was last done at a meeting on Friday was. It was my request that our whole system be specifically discussed, from the beginning when people come to the deportation, to the affairs of children, and to those in a delicate position. I've requested that the Senate committee continue with this and discuss it and an article. This group of subjects has changed dramatically over a short period of time. We see that in just ten years, the number of people who have requested international protection has increased from 35 to over 1,000. We have made new laws on the basis of a parapolitic committee, which we are following, of course, can always be done better, to see if the procedure is the legal requirement, and that is exactly what I want from the Parapolitan Council Committee. Regarding the question of whether I went to a gathering of the left greens as a council, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u10	Mr. President. It was good to find the answer to this question, but I can quite fully understand that this is simply the fact that in our restoration we called in our time, because we were very anxious about the affairs of foreigners, then the Minister of Justice, Sigríður Andersen, to our meeting where we expressed great anxiety and encouraged it, because there was a whole government business underneath, in order to go into it. I would have thought that a band like left green, with its policies in foreign affairs, would have done exactly the same thing. But okay. I'd like to ask about the Senate Committee, because it's the highest. A minister points it to a great deal: What if the Council Committee published a declaration to tighten things, to follow through, including the proposals that were originally the highest. A professional minister submitted? The Senate Committee as planned may, as well as a suggestion, cause things to become tighter. Will a minister follow such a tribulation if it is suggested by the Senate committee? And I'd like to underscore that I have no faith that representatives of the Archipelago, Pirata and the Conspiracies will offer it, but I am still a little frightened or terrified that the Council Committee will either do nothing or even offer suggestions that narrows things. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u11	A respectable president. Perhaps I would like to start by finishing my comments. A senator in a later request that I be an island member of my category. I've never heard anything so stupid in my life. It was the highest. Minister of Justice, and at the same time Minister of Internal Affairs Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who led the work of appointing a Parapolitan Committee. It was the highest. Minister at that time, Ólöf Nordal, who accepted it and finished our work today. This was an important step in the affairs of foreigners, and I see no better than that it was the clear policy of the Independence Party and his minister to set up these matters so that they are discussed with care and in order to get everyone together in this delicate matter. This group of subjects revolves around people's lives, and they need to change constantly as the world changes. We must work together because it is irresponsible to intend to discuss these matters each one in his own corner. Then we will have little or no success in this series. The Parliamentary Committee gives me advice. I hope that the suggestions it provides will end up being a parapolitic committee. It is to discuss the issues, and the changes we can make, in detail.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u12	A respectable president. Over the last few decades, police have been sent out to deal with people in a mental - health situation. I know these matters of my own, but over a seven - year period as a policeman, I found myself in that situation. I must admit that my education was sufficient to do something about it. The best thing that helped me was that I had learned many years of martial arts and was thus able to handle matters as much as possible. But we know examples, very bad examples, over the last few years, where police have been called out to deal with people who are seriously ill, and unfortunately, those people were badly harmed. Of course, being in such situations is unacceptable both for the police and for the sick. There is something that needs to be done about that, but there seems to be nothing done. The same thing seems to happen again year after year, they call and ask for an ambulance, but the police are sent to the sick person. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is there a situation going on with the police? Is this problem being mapped? Is this being handled? What are they doing? Or is it just something that's asleep, and nothing is done from year to year? It must be necessary, both in police and in these individuals, to deal with the situation and to find a solution, and not to send a police force to the extremely ill and to arrest them in a very gross way, as if there were some total criminals, who harm them. There must be some other solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. As he did, I noticed a discussion about the police and these matters in particular. It has been called for police work to be done. Of course, it is, and it is up to the police and a new council that will take place next week is the ideal stage for all the local police forces and district attorney to discuss such changes with the governor. I have strong hopes that this conversation will be of great benefit to the police in various matters. Of course, police officers carry out difficult assignments every day, and we have an excellent team of policemen who carry out a number of calls in which people are helped, who often suffer from spiritual sickness and abuse of drugs, etc. It is important, then, that the police are also in a position to handle these matters and know the circumstances and symptoms and to call for other reactants, such as this. Like ambulances and others to help, a senator mentions the need to do so. I think that with the change in society and more knowledge of mental problems and the challenges, it is improving and that knowledge and discussion are just to improve and hopefully reevaluate our work if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I just hope that something will be done, and we need to do something right away. Police education needs to be increased in these areas as well as to ensure that such individuals are dealt with in ways that make them sick rather than commit crimes. We are going to face this situation, and it seems to be a fact that such events are growing, and we know why they are. In the community, people are becoming more mentally ill and have been especially affected, e.g. for drugs and things. Of course, this is a very difficult matter. These are police and health issues, and there the police and the medical system need to talk and make sure that they do something about it right now. It's too late to do something when one more person gets hurt because of the wrong arrest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u15	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator claims that in general a number of new members of the police are being faced, and they have changed very quickly. There is more knowledge of mental health problems, and it is important to cooperate with health authorities, as is the case with so many things under my department, whether with prison authorities regarding increased psychiatric services, increased knowledge of mental disorders, etc. That's the complete key to cooperation, like what you're doing. A senator mentions. He also comes upon police education requirements, and we see the results of taking it up to a university level, not only in increased education and the possibility of developing it even more after the changed social patterns but also in the growing numbers of educated policemen. We now receive about 40 graduates a year, 20 of whom were once a year. Of course, it will greatly improve the prospects of having only educated police officers doing the work that law enforcement is doing, although they were very important about the population growth that has taken place with tourists in the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u16	Mr. President. Landris and earthquake activity west of Grindavík during the past few days, or since January 20, have not been overlooked. Several stage illustrations have been made by scientists regarding its potential effects if activity reached the surface by means of the related lava flow. I'd like to focus especially on South American electronic security in this regard. A meeting with the Landsnet in a budget board this morning revealed that if electricity production stopped in the Black end, the only way to send electricity to the area is by means of alips line 1 from Hamlin at Hafnarfjörður to Fitum in Smokenestown was to send electricity to the area. It turned out from the Landsnets'view that the southern line 1 could not help with the pressures and the power outage of parts of Southnes would therefore be inevitable. Of course, this is a major concern, Mr. President, and as far as the power of electricity will remain in these circumstances. Clearly, the need for Southnes Line 2 is urgent. The safety factor there weighs heavily, especially in the light of what I've been tracking here. It has been debated since the birth of Landsnet in 2013 or for seven years. There have been a number of problems during this time, an unregistered ownership, a license canceled, and so forth. Clearly, the government has held this issue badly, and there has been no match for the country's ideals of Voga and landowners as to options for the linework. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: What is the situation of this project, Southnes Line 2, and how will Ministers of Ministers face situations that might arise if electricity production has stopped in the Black end?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u17	Mr. President. You're right next door. A senator's need for a Southnes Line 2 is urgent and does not diminish as time passes. Today's situation further shows how important it is to complete this project, which has taken far too long. When asked what the minister will do to speed up the process, we have arranged that there is quite little room for a minister to step into individual projects. We have a rule that I've often said is too complicated and too hovering; a lack of compatibility when making such big decisions. I realize that there are 20 ground on the line, if I know the right way, and this has gone through the process in way too long. I hope that we will be able to change the order of action so that examples such as the construction of Southnes Line 2 will be history, but will not continue and will be more recent examples of projects that have simply taken way too long. The information coming from Landsnet, what would happen if the Black Angel went out, should show people that we must simply accomplish better than this in this country, which is simply part of the ability to ensure national security.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. A little bit more about this. The report by the Volga Association of the Landsnet Report meant that the Southnes line 2 should be placed on the ground and along the Smokey Way. Landowners agree. The national network will most likely apply this year for implementation in Southnes Line 2, based on their main choice, i.e. that she would be placed as a ceiling line along the Southnes line 1. Do not Ministers fear that the same story will repeat itself and that the work will continue to be delayed? At the meeting of the Landsnet Topic Council last week, the Vega projection came and introduced solutions to the workout of a land cable along the Smokey Way. In the case of the representative of the Roadmaker, it was possible to place the cord on the edge of the transfector zone, and it would be possible at the same time to attack in a better area along the road. This is a positive report of my judgment, and it is important to suggest that the matter of reconciliation be settled. What is the minister's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u19	Mr. President. I'm not going to stand here and give my decision whether the line should go by the way and down into the ground or be in the airline. I consider it to be there for good people who weigh and appreciate how it's done best. But I realize that one of the things to turn into this regular task is that when we're dealing with earthliness, it's a limited resource, so to speak, there's not an infinite amount to be buried. When it is necessary to go through many possessions or to have several societies, it must be viewed in some context of how to divide that resource if everyone wants their share in the earth that crosses their land. This is part of the effectiveness of the verbal management process and the compatibility of these measures. But I can't tell you exactly if I'd like to. I just want this project to end. [[The president calls.]] This has taken everything, way too long, and there is something wrong with our regular work when we have an example, despite the different explanations and projects as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u20	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Justice for an intention to provide a bill for changing rules such as the Minister has described that the criteria will be 16 months, not 18 months, when it will be possible to grant the terms of emancipation on the grounds of humanity when the trial is extended beyond this period of 16 months, according to the Minister's proposal. On the other hand, we notice in the news about matters discussed during the last days, that the family is involved, i.e. Little Muhammed and his family have been here for 26 months. The question is, How is this, and what would it change to the time limit from 18 months to 16 months? The answer is that the case was followed by approximately one of the facts. It took 17 months, however, all that time, from that time, to send them out of the country, to do the disfellowshipping. He should have done all the same today. The purpose of this period of time is likely to be to meet that when people wait here for a long time, they become rooted in it and that, naturally, they will rip up a seven - year - old child with the roots that have already learned the language and made many friends and will be sent out of the country for such a waiting wait. But it can hardly be important to the child whether the wait is due to a lack of administrative control or absence of deportation. It's the same thing with the baby. That's why I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister is open to also make adjustments in the legislation that the time of disfellowshipping is taken into this time frame, which the minister blessed with abbreviated. I know this is a legal question, but my experience with foreigners is that legal technology is often neglected when it comes to such heart affairs, emotions. But more important, I feel that legislation is all right and that it takes into consideration the objective and if the goal is humane, we must want to take this time that I have described here into the new deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I'd like to reiterate that I've proclaimed the changes to a Regulation based on the warrant I have in 23rd paragraph. a set of foreigners to have further details on the treatment of Foreign Institutes, such as ... lastfall. This will allow further testing of the duration of the treatment, e.g. especially for children. But I'm going to introduce it better and I'm in progress. That's what I'm talking about. A candidate talks about disfellowshipped is not far from there. A senator says it can take a lot of time. However, most matters usually take months to expel, depending on some factors and factors. position in the reception and possibility to complete and execute deportation from here. Therefore, it is not always up to the Icelandic government to execute the deportation. But you're right about what you're doing. A senator that's inside the time people are here waiting for deportation. I have hoped that the Council of Congress would handle the affairs of foreigners meeting for the position of children and people in their delicate position. Friday will continue to discuss this because, of course, we need to look at the whole thing as well as it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u22	A respectable president. Just until a trial, this wasn't discussed at the meeting. Friday, I'm on that committee. But, of course, I hope, as the minister, that it will be and will be firmly assumed that it will be discussed there. It is important, however, that the minister's attitude toward this matter is clear and clear to all of us. There has to be a mutual understanding of this, as the minister went over earlier. It is important that everyone be on the same page. Now I don't know little Muhammed, I've never talked to him, but I firmly assume that it matters to him in itself little whether the wait is because the case is stuck there or on the other side of the system or whether the trouble is in Pakistan or here. It says that children are taking root at this time, and that makes it important to me that the time frame is involved, whether it is implemented in a Regulation or by a change in law. Actually, I would have thought there would be a law change, but there's a secondary issue. If the limit had been 16 months in place of 18 months, and if the case had run out at the administrative point two months earlier, it would still be leaving the country after two years waiting, after 24 months instead of 26. I don't see that it would change anything. I feel that it is important to meet this challenge. Is the minister open to that? That's the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u23	A respectable president. Yeah, you're right next door. A senator may not have been solely under our control system to determine how long this will take. Of course, it often depends on the people themselves. Sometimes people choose to go home to their own home, as they are invited to do after the final outcome is in their case, voluntarily returning to their homes before getting ready for deportation. But when it is done, it's a bit dependent on the country itself, and it's important for us to establish good relations with the countries of the people we're retrieving. Of course, I'm open to all the changes that benefit children, such as I show by the Regulation change of 16 months. Of course, our goal is that there is no one in our system for as long as the case shows that have been discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u24	President. The military and military instruments of any kind are frightening and have tragic consequences, especially mines. The fact is, more than 110 million land mines are buried in the ground. The same amount is in storage. Each year, some 4,000,45,000 deaths are caused by explosions in the earth. Less than three fourths of them are citizens, about 42% of children. In the international community, this is stated in a special way that it has been made of a special covenant, often taught by Ottawa, a land mine covenant, as mentioned on the Homepage of the Ministry of State. The principal purpose of the covenant is to prevent the production of land mines directed against people. It also speaks of the success of the contract, the success of international dealings with these weapons. Now before the weekend, it was reported that the president of the United States Donald Trump had given green light to the production of a new kind of land mines. When you read the Ottawa contract and the reports of him on the Ministry Homepage, you can't help but wonder how these two things go together. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of State to see if he shares my concerns with the new reports that this has begun a new cycle of productions of these terrible weapons, which, as I did briefly cross, focus mainly on general citizens and are so serious that they have been made a special international contract signed by Iceland and became a member in May 1999.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The decision by the U.S. government to eliminate the ban on production and supply production and use of land mines outside the Korean Peninsula is a source of concern. The president of the United States issued a decree on January 31, 2000. where there is a decline in the implementation of the 2014 government policy of Obama for the ban on production, supply collection and use of land mines outside the Korean Peninsula. The U.S. government says that if a conflict occurs, the ban would restrict America's performance. The directive says that land mines will only be used in exceptional circumstances and that land mines will be used to destroy themselves after a certain time. Since 1997, the United States has always participated in business on the mines agreement and in material activities, but never confirmed it. For example, since 1991 the U.S. Army has not used land mines and has not produced such weapons since 1997. Marked weapons have also been destroyed. Then, in November 2019, in Oslo it was remembered that 20 years of this sign of the agreement, the ban on use, the accumulation, and the destruction of land mines, became a adopted view of the world without land mines 2030, a part of the wide network of arms restrictions and disarmament that has been built up over the last half century. Iceland participated in the conference and supports the goals it approved. During the past two decades, the success of land mines has been achieved, and Iceland has contributed to its involvement in the Landland Guard in Lebanon, in cooperation with Sweden. To make a long story short, Iceland will encourage all countries to continue working on the goals specified here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u26	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister of clear answers to local government policies and goals regarding this agreement. It is good to remember that for every 5,000 mines removed from the ground, one person works to remove them and two people get hurt. It costs $330 to make mines. It costs $300,1,000 dollars to remove it. Although it is absurd to talk about money in human life, removing all mines costs $50,100 million dollars. So we should continue to encourage the world's nations to work on setting up all the land mines, digging them up that are already in the ground, and destroying those in stores instead of spending money on making new land mines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u27	A respectable president. There is not in itself much to add, but for this reason I think it is good to remember that we have directly contributed to the destruction of land mines over the last two decades, which is done by the Landland Guard bombing squad. That's one of the things we do in international cooperation and you find, e.g. In the field of the Atlantic Alliance, it is highly appreciated. Of course, our primary goal is that we do not see war here. I don't think there are any examples of good warfare, they're always bad. We will continue to do our part in preventing them. One part of it is certainly dealing with the various weapons and trying to limit both production and I don't talk about their use as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u28	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Health Minister, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, for bringing up this special discussion about prevention and human health and the health of senior citizens. The fact is that the number of elderly people in Iceland is rising rapidly and thus predictable that unchanged items, including spending, will remain unchanged. to health care, substantially increasing. In 2047 it is estimated that by the time the age is 65 and older, the number of people under the age of 20 is increasing and so is changing rapidly. So it is a challenge to be faced by countries and rural societies in this area, where this is accompanied by an increased incidence of various diseases and a great challenge to us, as well as other demographic factors and lifestyle factors that affect general health and well - being. It's obvious, and it even has. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A minister pointed out that this challenge must be met with varied measures, including with increased emphasis on prevention and health. That is exactly what it says in the introduction to the 2030 C.E. C.A., with the permission of a president: ▪ Every country needs health care at one time or another. The needs of people for services are individual and varied from time to time. If we look at the development of costs and changes in the nation's ages where we live longer and grow older, the pressures of the health system will inevitably increase and the health costs will increase from the current level. It's about that. quarter of the total cost, about 245 billion this year. Surely, then, we must look to a growing degree of prophylaxis and general health benefits, especially those of older citizens, but recent studies indicate that, including the U.S.A. A study from Britain that I can refer to shows that an investment in prevention results in 14 times. Today, we are spending in the context of charges about 2% on prevention and 98% on what is sometimes called reactions or repairs. Thus, we must look to this increasingly and improve health and prevent disease, life - style diseases that result from unhealthy lifestyles, due to behaviour, increased obesity, diet, unwanted sleep habits, inappropriate sleep, lack of movement and planning activities, and, of course, discipline and self - responsibility. This leads to public health, and it's in the field of surgeon surgeons. The law on surgeons and public health says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Health care: includes maintaining and improving health, well - being, and the status of the people and members of society with health, prevention, and health care. This is a very wide area of approach, and so I have heard the highest. According to the health minister, this calls for a multimedia approach, now last in a special discussion about nursing homes. Many factors affect the general health and well - being of the environment, but as a result of my lifestyle. We associate with the world's global goal for sustainable development, peace, and freedom in the world, with the world's third world goal on a set scale, to contribute to a healthy life - style from the cradle to the grave. It has been shown through studies that the process of aging can be slowed down and the quality of life of older citizens can be improved by a wide range of training and health benefits. This has to do with the study by Dr. Guðlaugsson the son of Gudla, the Multitude: The way to successful aging, to reveal and confirm. It has been noted, speaking of public health policies, that health policy does not clearly address the challenges of aging. It has been pointed out in its reference to health policy and good if surgeons have not confirmed the need to update local public health policies. I'll leave questions here for your discussion. First of all: The Count of Ministers to the current 2016 public health policy to respond sufficiently to the predictable challenges, including Because of the nation's aging? Second: Does Ministers consider state and rural society to be sufficiently efficient in the health - related prevention of older citizens throughout the country? [[The president calls.]] Is working according to measurable goals, and what does it involve? [[The president calls.]] And I'm asking about an older citizen's public health evaluation. I come to the last two questions in the second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for requesting this special discussion about the prevention and health of senior citizens. The following questions will answer the questions raised. First of all, current public health policies are asked whether they respond sufficiently to the challenge that is predictable in terms of the aging of the nation. This policy puts special emphasis on children and young people under 18 years of age, so the issue is that in this first part the emphasis was on younger ones. However, in view of the aging nation, increasing emphasis on prevention and rehabilitation is necessary for all age groups, including the elderly, to reduce the incidence and severity of lifestyle diseases and to improve quality of life. At the time I have served as a health minister, I have drawn out some emphasis to ensure that there is both a greater degree of improvement in the policy and the activities of the elderly as well as the health services of that group is one of them. Hv. A senator asks whether countries and rural groups are working sufficiently toward the health - related prevention of older citizens throughout the country. That is to say that we are not exactly where we started. For the sake of government and rural society, partnerships, and other parties, I am now working toward this goal, but with increased emphasis on prevention and health, as if to make up the work of the son of Guðlaugsson Guðll, mentioned here, I am convinced that a much better way to do so. As we grow in age, it is important that we not only look to parents in the usual sense but also to rehabilitate them. With the aim of promoting rehabilitation in this country, I have assigned a group of health - care professionals to shape a rehabilitation policy, and it is assumed that the policy is now being established. The surgeon general represents the work of a health - care community, but in cooperation with rural communities and others the project is carried out to support communities in creating environments and conditions that contribute to the healthy life - style, health and well - being of all citizens, including older citizens. Today, some 92% of the population live in rural communities who have undergone this work at the health of society. The Commission is also a member of a European project and cooperation project that includes further development and implementation of a special project known as Multi-Greet Health for Older People in Iceland, so that the further development of a healthy community with regard to the needs of older people is also involved in this cooperation. Hv. A senator asks whether the work is based on measurable goals and what they include. The surgeon general published annual public health messages according to health laws in Iceland, the indicators being a set of standards, and I recommend that they do so. Councilmen learn this, and especially so. The welfare committee and, of course, the... well-being committee. It's a legal committee, too. These are set standards that give evidence of national health and well - being, and they are divided into parts of the land, health care problems, and the possibility of breaking up by rural areas, and the aim is to make this even more possible. These criteria reflect part of the health and well - being of older citizens. In connection with the task of health care and other data, such as the Medieval Health Association, which are linked to the UN's global objectives, as well as the National Association of older citizens and representatives in consultations on health issues and world goals. They seek to ensure that the needs and wishes of older citizens are taken into account, both in the development and induction of the work by nationals and at the scene of the rural community. I'd also like to mention, for that matter. A senator speaks of the provision of government funds into the medical or health services and mentioned specific numbers, we were staging 2% of the total budget for prevention, and 98% in response to the fact that my evaluation is more complex than that. We have been increasingly focusing on this, not just on health care but on all health care, that health benefits are part of health care. In fact, the ideologies of health and rehabilitation have become daily bread for all who are also caring for patients in a Phase 3 service so that we no longer have a complete cut, and we do not want to cut apart what is called traditional health care services and, on the other hand, health benefits or rehabilitation. In my time, we have provided a special budget, 200 million a year, to promote this aspect of health care, i.e. that she can do her work as a healthy environment for prophylaxis and prophylaxis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u30	Mr. President. The overall percentage of older citizens in the community, so to speak, is expected to grow very much over the years and it is expected that the proportion of 65 years of age and older of the nation will be estimated to reach 20% after about 20%. 15 years. As we get older, there are changes in the health of people who can cope in various ways. There are a number of factors that occur, and those with the best knowledge put the greatest emphasis on movement in close environments, tolerance and supportive training, good nutrition and social functioning. The World Health Organization has published a careful report on aging and health. The report states that when the government's cost of an older citizen's language was compared to the profits, so to speak, the profits made by the group were considerably greater. Given the same value in Iceland, countries and communities may view the health costs of older citizens as an investment that enables the elderly to give more and more to the community than would otherwise have been possible. The list of waitings for a nursing facility for the elderly has been greatly increased and has been expressed by a surgeon's office of heavy concern over the situation, and the waiting period has increased. The January 1 issue of Awake! On the average, some 408 people were waiting for medical care in a national language. Five years ago, it was 277. Therefore, waiting lists for medical care continue to increase, and those who wait often feel a deep sense of insecurity and discomfort. The most efficient and early way, according to the surgeon's opinion, to improve the situation is to improve the quality of home service, home care, and health. The central Party proposed a special budget of 2020 for some 70 billion. K. to the health of the land and health of the elderly. Sadly, this excellent recommendation was made by the classifications of the administrations. Undeniably, Mr. President, the government groups speak about the importance of this sect and then say no to the proposals for financing to the same party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u31	A respectable president. I want to thank you for your fine conversation. It's timely, and it's classic. For many years, this has been out of control in official policy over the years. We'd like to speak west, but we'd be very forward east. In just 20 years, the population of Iceland will be numbering over 400,000. Today, more than 50,000 people are 65 years old and older, but after just 20 years, they will have become over 90,000 of the population. Do we have a clear understanding of what this means in the near future right after 20 years? Twenty years is around the corner. The government makes a big difference that many nurses are being built - even on the big and small problems. Sadly, though, this does not change the big picture. Unchanged direction and change of thought mean that we need 2,400 new space in addition to what is now planned for the next 20 years if we continue in the same way. It's crazy. It doesn't work. We don't have the men, we don't have the money to do this. Then the spears are directed to a land hospital as if it were his fault on this matter. That's not true. We are to put emphasis on something else in the community sooner, such as why. The adverb has spoken so well here today and the highest. Actually, a minister came in, too. I hope we see a better time. A respectable president. Today, there are over four people in the labor market for each older citizen. After 50 years, more than two people become workers for each older citizen. In 50 years, Iceland will be completely changed. The situation is that a quarter of the population has reached 65 years of age. There's a lot of challenges. We must do everything we can to help them, our good older citizens, to play with each other's fingers, to enjoy health, happiness, economic security, and the working of society. We need to have a wake-up call.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u32	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say thank you for recording this discussion here at the council. Less than four years ago, I sat in Akureyri's presentation by Dr. Guðlaugsson Gullus, who has been named in this discussion, a sports and health specialist. There he presented the ideologies that he is involved in the health of senior citizens. Since then, I have often given thought to the issues we discuss here today. These ideas have to do with developing organized health and training for older citizens to prevent slow muscle atrophy, making it possible for older people to continue their daily activities, to have the opportunity to work in a labour market if there is interest and to delay as possible a admission to a nursing home and nursing home. This is a preventive health crisis. In recent years, the number of older citizens has increased, while Dr. Janus's ideas have turned toward people 65 years of age and older. The evidence indicates that there will be rapid growth in this age group in the years to come, as was shown in the case of the century. The senator mentioned earlier. The status of nurses in the country, their structure, and their operations on the crime scene have been widely discussed. Funds for 2020 assume that more than 50 billion are involved in nursing and rehabilitation services. On average, the cost of a medical facility is about 14 billion. K. Compared to that, home service cost is about 1.5 in the order of a billion people. K. Thus, there is much work to do. Of course, improving the quality of life of older people is most important. The other side is so financial savings, a better use of taxpayers' money. Today, some 20% of the individuals who have reached 80 years of age live in nursing homes. This group will double as long as they look at the next 151⁄220 years. We need to respond to this trend in a way that is different from what we have been doing. Governments have previously undergone preventive measures to deal with increasing problems and to achieve good results. [[The president calls.]] This shouldn't be any different.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u33	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for your discussion. Many groups are often excluded in the community, and older citizens are among the groups that have often not begun to talk about until their problems have become the problems of some other groups as well. It has been noted here that prevention results in 14 times. This is not only good news because it means that we have solutions that can be very effective but also means that we can prepare for the future regardless of what the situation today is. It's undisputed, as the speeches show. Here, that the nation is getting older and that the proportion of older ones is rising because of reduced birth rates along with general prosperity. Education and prosperity tend to reduce birth rates here as well as anywhere else. It's about time that it's never too late to start. It always helps to start exercise, you never get too old to start exercise. You never reach the age when exercise begins to damage or have no effect. She always has a positive effect. This has been repeatedly pointed out, and I understand that this is relatively recent confirmation. There are things we can do right now for generations that are not advanced in years, people now in their late 20's, in their late teens, or in their 40's, in prevention. There is something else that may be involved in this context, but it is that we also need to keep a close eye on the pension system and the social security system and its development as the nation grows older. Such systems are changing rapidly over the decades, and we can be sure that in later years these systems will not prepare as well for this group as we now expect. In addition to everything we do for the prevention and the like, we need to keep track of the situation at a time and prove ourselves ready for something that does not depend on the schedule. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, for bringing up this important matter. The fact is, over the years we have been able to cope with the consequences, react to what has gone wrong. I'm not talking about in the system itself. I'm talking about when it comes to our health. We're fixing, doctors, nurses, etc. In addition to this, it is natural that health authorities do much of their work in response. As people have talked about here, health matters are also about preventing disease, and if it should be well, they should be much more concerned about it. The fact is that life - style - related diseases are the most common causes of health loss in our world. Health care and prevention should be a priority in health care as a long - term investment in our health and well - being of the nation. This is our political responsibility because the campaign for such emphasis and the benefits it will bring will not be measured in one terms. It takes much longer, and it takes courage to look to that time. In this, the public interest we're talking about is in it. These projects need funding, but it is also important to simplify the way people handle the system. Here's what we got. The usefulness of language and the need to know where to look need to be identified, and they need to provide clear guidance for health. This must really be part of our life from our cradle to our grave. Then right at the end, I want to shoot because I'm confident, and there are evidences to support it, that using the work of older citizens, those who have power and will to work, and removing rules and laws of a particular retirement age will be laid the foundation for better health and better feelings of a considerable number of our senior citizens. So there is much you can do to work on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking the advisor for the good stuff and the discussion and the highest. Minister for being with us in it. I'm not going to count what's already happened, how fast the seniors are growing. I'd like to remind you of a campaign that was strengthened by Southnes at its time, 2017, when Janus Guðlaugsson, sports and health specialist, began with the task of promoting the skills of older citizens and trying to get them into as much movement as possible based on their physical strength and status. It is unmistakably that by improving our physical strength over the years, we are better equipped to stay at home, and we may even look at it that way, not doing so, we are saving our money and throwing away the crown. We've been in a situation where we've been making plans for our senior citizens who need help, but by this convention, they'd be able to stay much longer at home. We have faced the fact that individuals who have lived at home have suffered a lack of nutrition, that they have not had the equipment and care they need. It is in our power here to improve their health as possible and I trust the highest. Surely, a minister to embrace the sect because we have discussed him a great deal, and his will is clear in that regard. I keep encouraging it to the fore, hoping that when we as here grow older, we will grow older, even though we will grow older in a fit of speed and energy, if you can see, if you put your arms around you, and if this is followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u36	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for starting this important matter and thanking him for participating in this discussion. Your body has not changed much, but your lifestyle has changed. Health science is developing rapidly, and it is more likely that we will grow older, and we too will enjoy better health. But we must also assume that we need to work at doing so. The World Health Organization has published that 70% of the world's ills are caused by immobility, smoking, and diet. While physical activity does not cure all illnesses, as a medical technique, it can cure various medical conditions or significantly improve the patient's well - being. People's health is a common term for health protection and prevention. We can expect to be older than our formalities and - fathers, but it is not enough to talk about years. Quality of life also matters. We can improve our well - being by means of preventive measures. They are many and may, for example, be expected to be present. An increased sense of caring for one's own body is involved. Besides, we must not forget our spiritual things, but it is also important in the entire context. In recent years, the opportunity to do so has increased, but each one is responsible for doing his best to maintain his health. Government and employment need to be at the same pace as society's needs. Reeducation is a good way to maintain function, as exercise increases physical health. Effectiveness in the proximal community maintains social functioning. We are living in an ever faster world, and there is an ever greater need to consider how we can travel at the same speed without burning up. A respectable president. It is the common responsibility of governments, employment, and individuals to instill in their lives the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u37	A respectable president. The death pyramid is no longer a pyramid. He's a tepee at best and he's on his way to becoming a box. This will not mean that there will be a linear increase in the number of people in need of additional services because the health of those in the upper law is constantly improving. So let's not paint the picture with darker colors than it needs to be. But we need to view this as a huge public health project. I have been fortunate to work on the rehabilitation and exercise of older ones over the past 20 years, and it truly warms my heart that almost all members of the council here have mentioned my colleague and a former student in that context. It is never too late to start moving, and it is no longer just a phrase but a scientific fact that has been revealed since about in the early 1990's. It is known that with relatively small intervention, 2030 minutes of regular exercise two or three times a week for a 70 - year - old and older person, this person can normally expect to add two to three years to the remainder of his life. As a result, it's likely to be all quality time. But, as I said earlier, it must be considered, to increase the safety and health benefits of a life - style as a public health project. It has to be that we are going to get as many people as possible to go out and move because we will never have enough medical staff or sports teachers or athletes to do this work. As a community, we must convey the message not only to older people but to all that movement is a normal part of modern life - style
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u38	Mr. President. I'd like to begin my case with thanks to you. The advocate of his initiative by taking this important subject for the prevention and health of older people, as well as for the highest I would like to thank you. Minister for her participation and contribution in these discussions. It is important to emphasize what people can do for themselves, and it has been cited by Dr. Guðlaugsson, the son of Gudla, as the health force involved. Strengthened training to prevent slow muscle atrophy associated with a healthy lifestyle, diet, and so forth. Of course, this is very important, but government policies must have fallen to improve the interests and life - style of older people. Of course, it is exactly what has been pointed out here that it is a growing social group. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to overemphasize the need for older people who have the will and ability to work in a job market to do so or to make it difficult for them to cut down their pensions, as is now the case. Public health is recognized as being active in society, active at work, active in other people's relationships. That's why this point is very important, and I still reiterate one of these trips to improving social security when it comes to earning older people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u39	Mr. President. Recently, the General Assembly approved a matter that I set out here for the depression of older citizens. One of the measures highlighted is an increased emphasis on the exercise and health of senior citizens. You see, we need to consider this whole matter. Of course, there is a direct relationship between physical and mental health. Depression is twice as high in the elderly as in other age groups. Iceland has a worldwide record of antidepressants and anxiolytics, and there is evidence that suicide among older citizens is increasing, so the problem is serious. We need to think much more deeply about how older people feel in our community. Now that the number of senior citizens will double over the next 30 years, the government challenge will greatly increase. The health of older citizens, their peoples' health, prevention, and spiritual well - being should be so self - determination that it should be injected into all public plans for this group. I think, for example. that in a state of health demand, the spiritual health of the elderly should be taken much more closely. It seems that the system does not specifically assume that the elderly may have ADHD or autistic disorder or suffer from anxiety, addiction disorders, or posttraumatic trauma. Mr. President. It is primarily important to listen to older citizens themselves in the shape of all action. Mr. President. If we're lucky, we get to age. But it is not only a matter of adding years to life but also of adding quality to the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u40	A respectable president. I also thank you for the discussion because I think it's a huge case. It's been done well here, discussing much of the prevention and movement that are important. I wanted to come in with some other shows. I have found very interesting studies that have been conducted in so - called blue areas, areas in the world where longevity seems to be the most important. A recent feature of this was the one where Icelandic society is also included. Their research seems to be that there are eight relevant factors, factors common to these areas. One of them is a purpose. What is the purpose of living long? What purpose do I have in my community? Then there is society itself, how it is respected for those who are getting older. It is the activity that we have talked about here that, of course, matters much, both health and physical activity, but also social activity, activity every day, the ability to go to the store, visit their people, and do what you want to do. Then there's the rest. It is my people, my family, and we Icelanders are often very good because we are a relatively small group. It is also interesting to see in these factors how many older ones live in their home and with their family. Then there is a higher power that I found very interesting. I think it's important to believe in something higher, whatever it may be. Finally, it is attitude and nutrition. I think, a respectable president, we need to consider these factors much more to us, which, in fact, comes into play. to because the people are getting old. But who says that people need to stop working at 67 or 70 years of age? Can't people work anymore if they want to? Despite the fact that the teacher says that you are 70 years old, don't people have much to say? I thank you again for this discussion. [[The president calls.]] I think there's a lot here that we can take to heart and do even better if we're doing some good things. I think the discussion is just beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u41	A respectable president. Most, if not all, might be said by other members of Congress. However, there is something that I would like to mention that has been briefly discussed, and that is spiritual health, i.e. mental health. It is a subject that has been discussed in the past only by thinking that mental and mental health are those that should be discussed only when something is amazing, when people have specific mental illnesses. Therefore, a program for the discussion has been established, and in general spiritual health has not been referred to as part of the usual medical care until recently. I believe that in this 21st century, which becomes more complex every year, there will always be a larger and larger part of the feeling of being well in the long term. The good news is that because of more discussions about spiritual health and mental health in general, people are more open to making use of opportunities to improve their lives, even when there is no particular problem. Even if people don't have a specific diagnosis, they can improve their quality of life and I would stay alive as well as absorbing things such as increased activity or present consciousness and meditation, mental behavioural treatments, and the use of psychological services in general. It does not have a full place in our awareness of health matters. I mean, psychological services are neglected by us as a community as part of the general health system. As time passes, you would expect that knowledge would move you to see how you can remain spiritually in good shape beyond your age. There are also opportunities that we must not forget, and it is, of course, completely pregnant with the good talks that have been delivered here today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u42	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. It is vital, but we must also realize that we are talking about older citizens. A large group find themselves in a different situation. Some American citizens, you can say, have a nice job, are in a good position after work is done, get golf, and go abroad, eat good and wholesome food, and have good things to do. Then there is a large group that is on the other end, individuals who do not have food, walks to the refrigerator, and it is empty when they open it. It tells itself that a person who lives on rice or oatmeal does not exercise. Then there is a large group that is also on the waiting list for action, not just for months but years. Some in this group can settle in and buy out access to the action they need to take, while others are stuck on the list of waiting. At last, when that wait is over and they get their surgery, their health is down to the point that they have difficulty getting back to normal. This is the group that always forgets. I say for my part that as long as we have groups who are unable to support themselves in a decent way and who do not receive the services that are self - righteous and normal when people have served their place of work all the time, they have paid to pay off the legal depositor a pension fund, which will bring them nothing but poverty and misery, we cannot speak of this group as a physical exercise and to promote health. Sadly, this is the group that often dies long before they die, has been the worst life span of older people, and is the worst. [[The president calls.]] This is the group we're supposed to focus on. We're at least here. ... totherightplace.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u43	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion, and I appreciate it. Councilmen who have participated. A great deal of interesting observations were made. Then I'd like to thank you to the highest degree. Minister for her role and information. If I have to mention one thing from this discussion, how important it is to discuss health issues on a larger scale. We tend to isolate the discussion with specific issues, very often about one specific agency and the sums involved. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson spoke of a huge public health project and I agree with it. Hv. A senator traced his work, and many have referred to the study of Dr. Guðlaugsson, the son of Gullus, a student. The senator, and the same was my callor in training, so the pyramid was at least not a box in my mind. [[Up front.]] It is not unusual for him to come here very often because he has truly followed these remarkable tests and results. It's good to have them confirmed and natural to take them in when talking about human health. He's made remarkable results. I left a question to the highest. Minister on the question of the highest. A minister would follow this through a wide range of health efforts throughout the country because cooperation with institutions and rural organizations is absolutely key. The final question is, Do we need to be more specific in health - related prevention? V.E.G. Minister came in on public health texts. There's a lot of information there, it's true, but the possible question could have been how they've used so far and how they'll be used to further and better success, which we all agree to face.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u44	A respectable president. Like an apocalyptic saying, I thank you for a very good discussion, and I would like to mention a few things at the end. In the medical field, health care is aimed at providing a major role in health care for the country, including health care and health care. her active involvement in health and counselling in that area. By the end of last year, I decided that it would be 200 million. K. of the budget of that year to set up health - care welcome throughout the country. They are primarily intended for older people and for persons with multiple or chronic health problems. This is an effort to establish the ministry, that this group will receive a multicenter, comprehensive health care program, and that there will be an arrangement for health care for the elderly. I appointed for some month's work group for the health of the elderly, who are expected to offer suggestions on the provision of co-works in health care that enable the elderly to live in their homes for as long as possible. This will especially include cooperation between state and team members and litigators in their litigation groups that depend on the health of the elderly. That is one specific assignment. I agree with that too. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson says of this simple object that is limiting your quietness and moving in accordance with exercise recommendations. We're talking about the basic advice that is so simple that older people engage in moderate or difficult exercise for at least 30 minutes a day. This can be divided into two, three times for the day. We are not necessarily talking about organized exercise but simply about getting up and moving a total of 30 minutes a day. We know it's a great benefit from such exercise. There is another factor about older people, the guidance on prevention of mental illness, the guidance on domestic accidents, and similar disaster prevention, and the counsel on such factors as the use of snow melts in castes, the stairway handles to support themselves, and other factors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The instructions are widely available on our own, and especially in the office of a recent surgeon, who made three guidelines that were merely feeding the elderly in cooperation with the University of Iceland's Research and National Hospital in aging studies and also caring for prevention. Thank you again for your patience and what. A senator for raising an issue on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u45	A respectable president. Women in this country are available to participate in a planned screening for cervical cancer every three years. There is no need to know how important regular attendance and intensive monitoring are. It is the fact that since the time the screening started in 1964, the incidence of cervical cancer has decreased by 70% and the mortality rate has decreased by 90%. Breast cancer screening began in 1988. Women are somewhat active at screening, resulting in lower mortality in women with breast and cervical cancer. The cancer community has had a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance on screening. There has been an incentive for women to attend, and the organization has also traveled around the country and offered a search for several locations in each health - care field around the country. Despite this, attendance at attendance has not been acceptable, but it is considered to be acceptable if it is over 70% and preferably above 85, but it has decreased in recent years and has just below 70%. The screening for cervical cancer is now expected to move to the clinic, and breast examination is moving from Iceland's cancer partner to the National Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital. A respectable president. It is important that these changes do not diminish the experience and knowledge that has been established by the cancer club and that it would be best to improve the cancer - seeking attendance of women. However, there has been some uncertainty about the use of cancer for the country, so I ask the highest. A few questions are asked by the health minister in this regard. First of all: Is it expected that every health center on the country will suffer from cervical cancer? If so, what subjects will be responsible for the screening? Is it a family doctor or midwife or something like that? Second, are there plans to screen for breast cancer at the Land Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri? If so, what evidence is there? Will there be any evidence that they will be screened in other parts of the country? Third, the question is: Will there be a complete screening of free will? If not, what will be done for her? And fourth: Is it reasonable to assume that women will continue to be called in for screening, as is customary in the present system?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u46	A respectable president. I'm gonna slide right into the answers, so I'm gonna make the most of my time and thank you. Senator. The senator first asks if anyone is expected to stop his cervical cancer and, if so, what subjects will be responsible for the command. The answer is as follows: There is expected to be a screening for cervical cancer at specific clinics in all health care facilities. A surgeon gave me a memo on February 22, where proposals were offered to change the organization of screens based on counseling of a hearing to a surgeon in office. The surgeon also suggested that a project management be arranged to implement the proposal. A surgeon's proposal based on advice on cervical cancer screening advice is that of cervical cancer, i.e. are taking samples, the price of specific clinics, and the introduction of cervical reflections by cervical screening. The project management was planned in the fall, and it is scheduled to provide available suggestions and decisions on the change of organization and management, location and the execution of cancer screening. The Management Board estimates to submit its implementation in February, but the management board represents the Director's office, the Development Center of the Medical Center, the Akureyri Hospital, the National Hospital, the Iceland Cancer Association, the Research Centre, and the Health Ministry. Samples are being taken because of the cervical canal will be moved from the cancer club to the health care unit. Already, a cervical sample is held in non-Clinical clinics and is partly carried out by the published cancer cell personnel but, in part, by midwives working at the relevant institutions. Thus, the largest change in the capital area in which the sample will move from search center to health care. This calls for training midwives in health care for demonstrations and health care decisions on the location of the ministry. It is then true that about 40% of cervical samples are now taken from female gynecologists in the living room, and it is difficult to see if any change of arrangements in itself will have any effect on that ratio. Hv. A senator asks about the plan to screen for breast cancer at the National Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri and the evidence for it. National surgeon's proposals based on advice of a screening guide include: that a breast scan will be performed by the cancer club or another party depending on how you negotiate, as the suggestions say. Further research will continue to be done by the National Hospital. The land hospital now supervises the special examination of breasts and sees the Akureyri Hospital on part of that service, and this arrangement is not expected to change. The reason for these views is that the Cancer Society sought the access of the health authorities at the end of 2014 to ensure that these views would be maintained, where the Society no longer had the special employee needed to perform this service. A report by the Department of Health in October 2014 shows that the Cancer Society has visited Lands Hospital and requested that the hospital stay in clinical breast exams, but it has been difficult to ensure the provision of specialist physicians to their cancer society's tasks. Clinical breast examination is closely related to breast imaging performed at the time of screening, and the Landspians therefore felt that it was important not to interfere with them. One possible solution, then, was that the Landspians used both the screening and the clinical breast exams and considered experts in the imaging process to be the best. Health authorities responded by going to land hospitals. A land hospital formally reviewed the specifications of the European Cancer Society at the start of 2017, and this activity is located in Iceland's cancer center, where it is intended to transport this activity to a home on the property of a land hospital. Besides this, the wish of the Land Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri to receive all the breasts in the country is in a special memo sent to me by the directors in April 2019. The reason is primarily professional. It is difficult to get professionals to do this work properly, and it is pointed to. that the cancer community had to ask for special examinations because of the lack of qualified personnel. It is easier to maintain the knowledge of hospitals where more workers are and for a longer time, hospital care is more likely to take care of this role and to be less experienced in caring for the needs of others. In recent years, the Hospital's Communication Department of Akureyri has cared for her breasts, along with special inspections with SEK's equipment. SAK is expected to remain the same group as the screens currently screened by the Forest Cancer Association. Hv. A senator asks whether the screening will be free of charge, so it is to answer that the current arrangement does not result in a return payment from the Cancer Society into a general credit system and does not reduce the cost of women. The cancer community has had some experimental work done on its arrival, and it is important to consider whether this will be adjusted according to the suggestions of the screening guide. And yes, it is still assumed that women will be called in for screening.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. Kristjánsdóttir All right, Signý. That's the guy you're looking for. That's the guy you're talking to. I myself was in the preparation for a written reply to a minister in which I have wondered a great deal about the changes planned, especially because the arrangement seems to have been a significant pleasure among those who are using the service, i.e. among the women who have been there. I have felt that there was no further explanation for why we are going to this change. V.E.G. The minister came in fine with the prehistory of that case, and I think it's also good to have it in writing from the highest degree. Minister. I wondered how a minister intends to ensure the quality of the ministry. I understand that waitings in a special check at the Land Hospital have increased. The most important factor. A minister came in with special staff is not new, and the land hospital seems to have been having trouble with that too. [[The president calls.]] Has the highest. Or how to address that problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u48	Mr. President. It's very important, like the highest. A minister came in earlier, saying that when we are screened and screening procedures are carried out by best - tested information and the advice of a screening guide. I'll agree with that. Hv. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir merely introduced the incidence of cervical cancer to a lower, and in this relationship it is appropriate to remind one of a very important factor, that in the time of Álfheiður Ingadóttir, the health minister was vaccinated at the HPV virus, the virus is quite well known that, after infection, may cause cervical cancer. No doubt that will have some effect. It is also important, in context of what is highest. Minister said, by moving at least Part of the screening and this service into the clinic is helping to improve our service, which is also of utmost importance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u49	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a very important case that I thank Halla the Kristjánsdóttir for asking for, screening for cervical and breast cancers. V.E.G. In many respects, a minister reviewed the changes, but the discussion is somewhat specialized, and I realize that in the community there are many questions. There's a lot of uncertainty, and I think it's important to get information about how the changes are going to look around the country. I think it's very important that we put it through this discussion now. It is important to have a fine, reliable service based on the best knowledge at any given time, but it is also important that it be available in all parts of the country and in the harmony as presented here. I wish for a minister to come in a little better to see if there are any changes in the breast screening throughout the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u50	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Ministers are eager to give their answers and encourage them to impress them on these matters. I have no doubt that this will be done by a very professional knowledge and good will. I also agree with what you say. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Alices daughter speaks of the matter as soon as she has to make a presentation. We assume that these changes will be over the years, and as I also came to be in my first speech, we need to improve our participation in this screening. Once the woman is below 70%, it is important that the availability of the female is good and is closer to the environment as the screening has been. When the cancer community has published an inspection, say at Ásafjord, a conversation between women in the local community encourages the examination. If you receive a letter, it is the discussion that leads to the first and second occurrences of encouragement, for example. Friends. It is important that I be careful about this, and as I have observed a lot of speculation, especially in the country, that if this is to move from here to here, it may not be as certain. I know it's the highest. The minister is all willing to do this well, and I hope that it will be, and that the presentation will be done quickly and quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u51	A respectable president. Thank you for your time, and I'd like to mention that I think it's a good thing. paritaprevir Bruttis Haraldsdóttir, now president of the Generalis, submit a written inquiry for these matters because I think it's good that this should be done on Congress papers. As mentioned in my previous reply, a project management is at work, and it is my job to update the proposals and decisions for the changed management, location, and screening procedures. I have not yet received these suggestions, so I am answering here and now in advance that I have not received these results. This is absolutely clear, however, so that a body of Congress is informed, that when changing the system of services, factors such as access, security, quality, and services should be made aware of knowledge and practical methods. A joint in the ministry is a key element. Service to women with clinical symptoms is a very special service and is generally organized abroad, often at special breast centers associated with a university hospital, to ensure that the congregation is united in the ministry. Then it is of great importance that we make great demands there. National Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital will see how these screenings will be conducted for breast cancer outside the country. I'll take a very serious indication. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Alices daughter's comments on the importance of communicating this information to women. Knowing how this is happening is part of a woman's culture, part of the way we communicate and talk about our own health, our friends, our daughters, and our mothers, that I don't talk about sisters. I'm taking it very seriously, and I'm gonna make sure it's presented to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u52	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. Because they are fresh from the discussion of older people's affairs, it is good to continue in some way cutting down the same knee, though in some other way. Today, we are talking about a service that is more important to the older people of this land who have become a great health - care provider, a great support for the activities of daily life, and more. I've often tore up the fact that we're trapped in a set arrangement, a service model for older people. It actually leads to the first question, i.e. how a minister intends to respond to the predictable growth of older people and the predictable increase in the need for service. I came into the past that the service increase will not be linear, but we still need to get out of that box that the answer is always building one more nursing home, that the answer may always be to use more concrete when it may not be the case. It would be interesting to hear the answers from a minister. It is also important to try to figure out what the cost might be if we stick to the same model. In the facts behind them, there should be sufficient power to force us to go another way. I'd also like to know about the service of the nursing homes today, how it works. A minister sees this service in order to form a relationship with privacy and privacy. How do we respect the self - determination rights of people when they are placed in some form where they need almost, as the situation is today, to wake up at a certain time, to eat breakfast at a certain time, to bathe at a certain time, and it is not at the time the person decides, at least. Not to the extent that we as younger ones would like to do so? Finally, the question about community unity is because we know that some activities we are considering in the aging service are so large that small, inaccessible rural societies will never be able to do them themselves, but, on the other hand, either cooperation with rural society on a large scale or cohesion may have an effect in a positive direction. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear a minister's opinion on these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u53	A respectable president. Hv. Ólafur S. Gunnarsson and Brjánsson have been directed to me by oral inquiry in the four teams that have been considered here. First, what will be the reaction to the predictable growth of older people and the expected increase in the need for service? To answer, as age increases, there is an increased risk of chronic illness. Such diseases are the greatest health threat to Western society, and thus, as mentioned earlier, they must be one of the most important factors in modern health care. During a mass - growing program of health care that was held in November. the requirement to increase the importance of prevention in the primary setting of health care. Not only are they the most practical way of life but they also save people suffering and a quality of life that will be worth over and over again. Already the emphasis on growing prevention is on talking, and by the end of last year, I put 130 million to increased home care and 200 million for the development of health - care programs at clinics, which have been improved to improve my service to the elderly. We have made agreements about flexible days, want to have much more variety in service to older people, since older people are a variety of people, and older people are also of different ages. Second, whether there is an assessment of the cost of continuing to use the same arrangement, i.e. Live in a nursing home, especially when considering the growing population of 85 years of age and older and the length of a lifetime. The Ministry has identified this cost as a unchanged nursing home use, with respect to habitats and age combinations. The current cost of nursing care as a basis would be 51.4 billion. Year in 2030, 73 billion k. In 2040 and 89 billion years. in 2050. This vision clearly reveals the need for changes in the way the elderly are treated, even though this is just the case. A nurse's growth is not enough to support the ministry, although we really need to increase the number of nurses, but we need to expand our ministry and that it is being performed at the Ministry of Health each day. One of the most important steps is to support your own estate by looking at increased prevention, mainly health control in all possible sense. This includes delaying the need for medical care. Third, ask who. Parliaments to evaluate the arrangements for the current service in nursing homes regarding self - determination rights as well as the services available there. It is emphasized that the elderly, as well as the rest, maintain their own independence with an independent home for as long as possible and that their need for service is met by medical care, home care, home - care, day - to - day living, and rest periods. The transport of a nursing home should be the last resort and should only be used when it is shown that nursing is needed 24 hours a day. Thus, nursing homes are mainly organizations that provide individual care and care for persons during their final years of life and finally pailing nursing. To further support the elderly's independent home, then, it is necessary to adjust the ministry to the best way to advance the elderly's need for service, from health prevention, and the first support at home, and to stay in a nursing home. Finally, ask him why. The members of Parliament, whether the Ministers of the United States believe that the basis for bringing services to older people to them is the basis for the unity of a rural society. The sharing of health and social services is one of the most important tasks we are facing in service to the elderly. In contrast to what is elsewhere in the North countries where service to the elderly is done by the local community, the extent of the service is at the hands of a variety of people - both state and rural society. The community unity of larger and stronger units is essential for Icelandic society to develop the close - up services and must simply ensure that rural communities become larger and more powerful to carry out these vital tasks and that the inhabitants enjoy this service equally regardless of their habitat. Already there has been a call for increased cooperation with rural society in these areas, and hopes are in place for that cooperation to begin soon. I have a regular meeting with the European Union on the increase in the coordination of the ministry. Various assignments are being carried out in many parts of the country to improve the quality of the services that are being served by the elderly and the individuals in each area, for example, in Akureyri. What would do the most good in these areas is to unite and promote societies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for participating in this fine discussion. It is a great waste of my life and of my pleasure to participate in the inquiry at any given moment. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson. This is an important group of subjects, as we know, and it is the rivalry of all of us to become the oldest, and that is the lot of us. It is predicted that our life expectancy will continue to grow, that we will live longer, that even in the year 2050, life spans will have increased by an average of eight years and that we can live at an average of 80 years. This has a profound impact on society, and of course two aspects of this relationship, health care, and retirement. In general, because of advancing age and our need for health care, the costs increase. I just wanted to reflect on these factors by reviewing the pension age. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u55	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the discussions that have been here today that are both fun and necessary. It speaks of the growth of the unit management level so that they can take on a privileged service, but I would like to mention a service given in parts of rural society, though neither large nor sexy, which is of utmost importance, and that is social service, such as visiting services. In many small communities in the country, seniors have moved away and are left alone but are so healthy that they do not have to go to a nursing home. Visiting is of utmost importance and is necessary because, as we have seen, we are not necessarily ready to go to a nursing home when we are reasonably well but need help at home and visits, both on social grounds and in order to care for various needs. [[The president calls.]] That's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u56	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion. The fact that the people are getting older is one way to rejoice, but when it comes to bringing them joy with action and riches, the sound changes. Then there has been a problem with this rise in the average age of men and women. I'm asking why? Why is it not the fact that governments have a clear policy of facing this trend that is not starting today or yesterday? This trend that should be a cause for joy, that older citizens are growing older, has long begun. As a result, I feel that the table should be completely open to me that it was at a time of rejoicing and that this fact is true.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u57	A respectable president. I think it is very important that older people get older in their own country, and I think it would be interesting to know if there was a survey of how many people have had to move because adequate resources were not available to meet the needs of the people when they grew up. Home nursing and social services have been established, which I believe are very important to be present so that people can remain in their most independent residence. Nurse homes are certainly taken at the end, and they too need to be there, but there is a need to be able to reduce the amount of housing, a service apartment, or a suitable setting for your age and health. Health effort is really a major factor in people's confidence to stay at home, which I think is the goal we need to pursue and look to the northern countries in that regard. There we are afterboats, but we have to set the target to be comparable to what happens in the North countries of that species. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u58	A respectable president. I'm gonna get involved in a discussion of service with older people and thank you for the fact that these discussions are on the program today. One inquirer discussed the importance of new thought and innovation and the highest. A minister introduced the importance of prevention and flexibility. I'm no expert on this field, but I've often wondered why we don't have more cooperation and teamwork in service to the elderly, since the elderly might be the head of the team and that caring could put the workers of the community and health systems and relatives in the event of switching that the burden of caring is also a quality of life that can be shared in the care of an elderly relative.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u59	Madam President. Thank you. Councilmen and the highest. Minister for participating in this discussion. She's been fun. As we entered here earlier today, we will likely be able to do one of the greatest things we can do - not a problem - because, of course, we, as a community, want to keep all the subjects and make sure that everyone lives in the quality of life that they have. It's a pleasure to hear from the highest level. Of course, we will not spend nearly 90 billion a year in nursing homes in 2050. How encouraging it is to know that then we will not be going to the point of spending as much or more money in nursing a nursing home as we do today in driving the Land Hospital and the health care of the capital area together! That's good to hear. How much better it is to make sure that people are supported by their home setting with increased home care and the integration of the ministry there is absolutely a key factor. That is why it is so important that large, strong, militarized societies can actually take on projects like the highest level. A minister came in, especially when it is time for this service. That's why it's important, like the highest. A minister made it clear that these treaties will continue and that they will be done on an ever greater scale, making sure that people get the service where they want it. Of course, we want the arrangement to be as the service users would like to have it, not as the service employers would like to grant it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u60	A respectable president. I do not deny that as a special senator, I am very fond of the new fact that two members of the council are together for questions and even more because they are on either side of the canyon between government and government opposition. It shows us exactly under this program that this is a matter that concerns all of us, no matter how a government is put together at any given time. Whether we are talking about the 19th or 20th century or when they are actually building up, we are getting together at the end of the time because of the needs of society through infectious diseases that were a major health problem in those days. The circumstances we see today are so different when the health problems we face and the subjects - so I take it. Gunnarsson I have an exemplary record of what to do, not of problems - of long - term diseases. As age increases the risk of chronic disease, we are talking about certain raft movements in the nature of the ministry, increasing emphasis on personal health, increased emphasis on lifestyle, increased prevention, more information, and more health issues in the system. I'm excited as hell. paritaprevir With regard to the leadership of the ministry, Anna Sævarsdóttir spoke of because at times you forget the importance of it, as well as the self - determination and dignity of the ministry, that the one enjoying it is the one who is doing it and who builds up the ministry, which gradually changes as the need is growing and the time comes. [[The president calls.]] Thank you for your fine discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u61	A respectable president. It is good and beneficial to bridge the gap and the serene gap between the political parties in opposition to government, and a successful bridge was achieved. Hopefully, this will be the first step to build a strong bridge between these classes and allow them to work as best together as soon as possible. A respectable president. Early in the last century, the goal was to ensure the security of older people in their final years. It was usually a matter of delinquency, not having a head to lay down in a divided place among family members or close friends. This was true even of elderly seamen who were seen after a movie shop at sea and who had had no chance of securing their home, had spent a long time away from home, and may have failed to make any family ties. This was the scene that often appeared at the beginning or during the early part of the past century. Thus, some years later, a suspect in Reykjavík, up to 1920, and a Frenchist, we also know a small, so - called nursing home in the country. In my opinion, we haven't really gotten out of these thinkings yet. We are still building institutions for people who are almost out of time. When we discuss this with ourselves, which is a little younger, this portion that we cannot really think of except when we are so sick that we cannot provide for others. It is a kind of political solution that's settled, built from concrete 300 space, and it's dead. But it's just not like this, and we have to start thinking again. That is why we want to place our weight on the scales in order to increase our discussion. Today, the picture of the problem is likely that even elderly people live in far too large a house and in an unusable home, and they find it difficult to adapt to the changes and to get into a suitable home. It may be there that we need to take care of ourselves. Me and my pals, why don't we? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson let us ask the minister five questions. I've run out of time, and I can't go over it, but they're willing to do the same, whether or not we should look to the changed ways and look to the modern world and look to the future. [[The president calls.]] And how can government authorities contribute their weight to the scales in order to help people get out of an uncomfortable large house in my own house? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, we know that it is part of people who do not have housing and who need safe housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u62	A respectable president. Again, I thank you for the important discussion and good questions. The first question is, Is it appropriate to examine a nursing home in a different way today, e.g. with increased emphasis on domestic quality and flexible social services rather than on health care, as shown in the written inquiry. Councilmen here for oral answers. Hence, it is to say that even now nursing homes are already being developed similar situations, as possible, housing, organization, and circumstances in private homes, but they meet the needs of those who have reduced their ability to perform activities of daily life. In addition, many nursing homes, as well as more and more, work on family ideologies and individual services. Loneliness has proved to be one of the greatest challenges for the population of nursing homes, so it would be beneficial to reconsider the service form from social emphasis rather than from health care. I think there's a need and a good tip. By the end of the last year, the Ministry of Health strengthened the older citizen's organization to provide educational material to prevent the loneliness of older people, and they may be able to hold a special seminar on that matter. It can also be noted that for the Minister of Social Affairs, there is also a working group that studies the standard of living and equipment of the elderly. Hv. A senator asks if a minister believes that the financial care of a nursing facility is in the current and normal way, e.g. In terms of the payment of the individual clients. The current arrangement is that the payment of nursing homes is related to income, and the total pay of the population in 2018 was about 5% of the total cost of nursing management. As population forecasts have shown, it is absolutely necessary to reevaluate the arrangement of service to the elderly in general and to find the best solution, including this factor that needs to be revised in the overall review, since it is clearly a remnant of old times. Whether it is time for a minister to consider basic changes in the service of the elderly, where there will be a progressive disappearance from institutions but instead of a long - term housing plan for the elderly as well as a real community and health service campaign. My answer is that my ministry's analysis at the cost of unchanged nursing homes in terms of the percentage of farms and age composed would show that it is urgent that services to the elderly are primarily supportive to their own habitats. That's what counts. It is also of prime importance that the emphasis is flexible and varied, and in cooperation with our rural society, we need to maintain that the planned treatment of nurses is still necessary. You can't fall away from that structure in the light of population forecasts. A long - term schedule for the development of integrated services based on the gradual needs of the elderly, which is essential for either social or health care. I have stressed the importance of promoting daycare and nursing, and I will continue that course, and I think big increases are needed at home. We are huge submarines of our neighbors in the North countries of that kind. A more drastic step may have to be taken toward integrated teamwork in the services of people from house to house, sometimes allowed by presidents, to be called both home Bible studies, while I have arranged funds to strengthen the home - to - house service and health benefits that are all steps in that direction. I'm asked in particular about the basis for cooperation with the apartment loan fund. Such cooperation has not been a factor, but I have placed emphasis primarily on advanced services supporting the elderly to their own habitats for as long as possible and on government policies, but all ideas are welcome. I was asked if I will use increased donations to the seminary in the coming years, and that is a quick answer: Yes, I will. I will continue to use myself for increased contributions to health care in general. That's what I've been doing since I took office. I have stressed the growth of health care to the elderly in my work as a health - care minister, who has been my special focus, and those matters will remain focused on me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u63	Madam President. The policy of building up services for older people has, like, a rough one. paritaprevir The Guvigner of Brjánsson Bruunsson came in earlier, was marked by a monumental romance. It is based on a new and new nursing home, and it is one of the leading men who stands for it. In this regard, I'm going to say that there is a question that somewhere in the country, I don't think, there's a memory of a hardworking employee in a nursing home or home service. But the monuments of the men who represented the construction of nursing homes are most likely to be located all over the country. For one thing: It is by building a house for older people. I'd like to get the top of it. A minister particularly in setting up employment in the Ministry on the matter of having consistent rules on what needs to be available so that someone can sell to an apartment or sell a service that he calls an apartment for the elderly or a service apartment for the elderly. Such lacks real sense and would likely greatly correct the kaos, let us say, in a sense, in this series of languages.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u64	Madam President. Yes, it has truly been a helpful and informative discourse here today and a reason to thank all who have been standing before it. I would like to use this opportunity to remind you, highlighting two topics that I have made several times as a topic of conversation in this discourse and discussing in another field. On the other hand, it is much better to consider the harmful effects of the much impairment in terms of social security to produce for the sake of employment. This is a public health issue, for it is accepted that participation in society and employment markets will benefit people greatly if they are able to do so. I would also like to remind you of a bill I brought at a recent assembly and will rematch, which means that a change in the law of the elderly will be made to make the money fund new for new and maintenance, not in part for business, as too long has been tolerated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u65	A respectable president. I'm particularly going to direct the light to the question of home focus and of a more flexible social service rather than health care. I think it's important that the person has entered a nursing home that he not become like the property of a nursing home, as you sometimes witness a little, that he cannot call after another service from e.g. A community, social, or other form of service that he needs. It is a matter of self - respect, that a person can maintain the self - esteem that he wants out while possible. This is what I think is important and lacking, although this may be coming in, especially in my nursing homes, i.e. A flexible service. But it's important. It's okay to come in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u66	A respectable president. I want to thank the two senators for our discussion. We feel that we have succeeded. Senators have shared in the discussion, and it is important. It is also important that the discussion continues. It is our hope that we will manage to raise her slightly from the old quests and begin a responsible discussion for the future, i.e. that we should take a slightly more stable course to the future, a more responsible course because we are living in so much change in time. Imagine, in 20 years, the situation will be changed, and there will be a short period of time. It is especially enjoyable to do so. A minister should participate in this discussion with us, and it is not a burden to continue the road as long as she sits at the Ministry because she has an understanding of the language and experience and a vision that we can take into account. Times are changing, and we cannot expect to make models of what we have known. We do not necessarily have the resources we have had, so in time we may have to rely on equal support to a greater degree. Iceland and I have put too much emphasis on institutions services. We're making a huge difference in OECD countries. We spend a quarter of our money to home service, compared with the OECD countries, so we need to change. A respectable president. I thank you again for the discussion, and I hope she continues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u67	A respectable president. I don't know if the President and the media are aware of the great news that has been taking place in the affairs of the council, but seriously, I want to thank you very much for what happened. The members of the council are gathered here to raise the subject of this discussion and the subject. It is absolutely clear that some of the community's tasks are, so we should come together. I'm sure there's some sort of opinion, some differences, but it's important that here we're talking about service, growing service for the people who built this community, that we're lucky to keep our differences between us while we're at least trying. looking intently at what we agree on. I don't hear anyone at the conference protesting that we need to increase the focus of flexibleness and variety of resources for the elderly, however, that we must continue the building of nursing homes where there must be a greater family effort and a more warm environment, which is primarily a home for people. We have good examples, such as those of a flexible day in Akureyri and a progressive service there, where people can attend at a time. 8 o'clock in the morning, but also at 2 p.m. 12 if they choose to sleep longer. It can be on weekends, but it can also pass on, etc. Well, it's not like that, then. The senator was to mention earlier, that everyone should get up at the same time, eat at the same time, etc. It is likely that when we become old, suddenly we will not be suitable for each one of us, for it is clearly not convenient for us to be exactly as if we were not going to adopt that wish when we were old.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u68	Madam President. I'm glad I can have a place of words at the highest level. Minister of Justice on the county office and especially their future. I have three questions that I suggest. First, what is the vision of the future minister of the administrative arrangement? Second, how is the transfer of projects to the office? And third, if Ministers potentially united between the county bodies and their activities and the rest of the State's activities in the region? A few years ago, there were 27 administrative positions in the country. Now it's nine. The biggest changes in recent years, with the exception of a drop in office, were when a police government was separated from the county office six years ago. The office in the present form of various projects, most of which are service - related, such as incest, a big, difficult group, the treatment of dead people, the licenses of various kinds, funeral arrangements, forced sales, plagitaries, and government collections, in many places, pay a great deal. In connection with the reduction in the number of offices and former segregation between police and county, there was a lot of debate to improve the use of the embellishment and to strengthen the remaining ones in the countries around the country with great professional knowledge, as well as knowledge of all local standards. It was considered to make better use of these stations. I must say, Madam President, there has been very little intention. What Is the Cause? Is it not the full will of the management team to promote the office? It could be said that this effort could be assigned to the project to reduce the work of a large number of government agencies carry out all kinds of projects and activities throughout the country and that these regular administrative centres could be used to perform individual tasks, those that do not require specific professional knowledge in the relevant area. When I lived in the Western Islands, I often wondered at the number of public institutions that had to come to the island to care for their business, perhaps some minor events with the expected cost of travel, monitoring, and all kinds of assessments. Workaholics, health care, Labour Services, Boarding Room and Fish Room, and continue to be counted, and I consider these institutions to be random. So it is possible to ask, " Is it not possible to save a lot of money by making better use of the people in the county office for the government?'So I am referring to the whole state rather than to the fact that every institution is on the move in various developments, even in the same place at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. For this discussion, a senator is very important, and he is pleased to discuss the future vision of the County Commission. We're gonna go for a second. In many ways, a senator agrees that my vision of the future consists mainly of reorganizing projects, strengthening the county office, having the powerful Kingdom services in the region, planning them better, and using administrative agencies in the country for a more varied project, and making it possible for people to be there with the business that applies to the State, wherever it is placed on the land. It also has special opportunities with more digital administration. These targets will, on the other hand, be achieved by changing operations in individual categories so that the pay will be more central and specific for the whole country, with increasing production of digital solutions for the job and by creating the facilities for achieving financial management and contributing to this needed progress. The changed process will improve the services of the county reforms so as to open up the possibilities for further development of offices that we have already shown by reforming projects, such as moving an assignment to the Western Islands to promote that office as well as that. A senator makes specific comments. But how's this transfer going? We've been trying to cover up more projects for the county business by making better use of these relief centers around the country, but this has not been effective enough. The most likely explanation is that the administrative structure characterised by the local pay and welcome of paper forms has still been counteracting this trend. The Ministry has recently been working on digital solutions for the treatment, including self-registered dictionaries, electronic forms, and e - mails. As the induction progresses, the work load and the work programme will change. This will be an opportunity for the county to handle more projects. By the end of 2018, the initiative of the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs was also beginning to prepare projects for reevaluation of the embassies. The project then consists of a complete analysis and reorganization of the embellishment with the aim of repairing slopes and analysing these expenditures. One is an analysis of the management services and the work of the EICs, while an analysis of opportunities for changes to take place. A senator asks about, including the induction of digital administrative practices and the transport of projects in the country. I hope that the project will submit an analysis of opportunities for change, including the introduction of electronic management and transport projects to the county service, and expect to get results from it in the coming months or in the spring months and then can immediately begin with the change and distribution of projects to land or where the staff can be developed, as well as applied. A senator mentioned, even better. Hv. A senator reviews the possibility of a partnership between the administrative institutions and the rest of the government's activities. Of course, it was the objective of the 2014 laws that the Commission would become the centre of the government in the province. This aim is considered practical for the government of the government and leads to greater convenience. There are some examples of this order in individual districts, e.g. has been found to be in a position by the Customs and at work at the Commission, as well as in good experience for the management of other organisations, such as insurance and health insurance, Iceland's health insurance, the police department, Iceland's National Institute and Foreign Institutes, and the United States. ... becausethey'redrawnwiththe civilians. In my opinion, there is a great opportunity for an even greater degree of cooperation, not only between the county reforms, but also between a member of the county and other institutions of the state. I have strong faith that the implementation of digital projects and solutions will simplify and integrate this service when projects relate to other institutions because, with the work that is under the secretary of finance, Digital Iceland, we are dealing with all the communications people need to have with the State in one place. It has an enormous number of opportunities to add to people's services, that can set up these stations in whatever activities they are or provide them through a software program on the phone. When people need payment at the county office, they can go to any county office because with digital solutions, we can simplify and speed up a case as well as use the practicality of moving and having it locally in the rural areas. I see a lot of opportunities in this vision of the county service with both digital solutions and transporting more projects in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u70	A respectable president. I'm gonna get involved in this discussion about the county office, which is very important, and I want to thank the voter. I'm going to review that last year, at the Kingdom Accounting Study, a report on a comparison between the county bodies and the Commission and the Commission made this report and gave an opinion to the council that has not received any special study in the council hall. It is, in fact, there. Emphasized that the Ministry of Justice speeds up work in the shape of a vision for the county office, so I want to celebrate what was presented in the highest court. Ministers to proceed with this in a rapid and effective manner. It is important that the scope of the projects already available to their offices so that it is possible to distinguish an opportunity for innovation in the administrative capacity to improve the services of the offices where it has actually deteriorated while this vision is not available.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for this inquiry and the Minister for Answers. I remember, when these administrative laws were changed for 2015, I remember, and my office was reduced from 24 to 9, that money was very much spoken of here. The last speaker quoted a report referring to the lack of work to shape the future vision of a businessman. Therefore, I would like to direct the question to the minister if the funds mentioned were added to the missing time or if that work was not realized because the funds have not been increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u72	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the good prepares for my encouragement, and I look forward to seeing the expansion of my office even further. I can't come up here without saying that when I made this inquiry a few months ago, there was uncertainty about the county office in the Western Islands. Before we go any further, I want to commend the highest. Minister for recently advertised the position of the businessman in the Western Islands, which is still in the process. I know that major projects have been brought to the county service in recent years, and this has been successful. In particular, I would like to mention the collection centres of fines and criminal expenses run by the lab on the carburetor, and many more may be mentioned, much less in format. Many birds are being struck, so to speak, kept jobs in the country, even moving them to shore, strengthening office, and strengthening the support of the staff's workers and making better use of them. I miss the fact that in recent years, there have been no better efforts to take certain assignments to the office than there is to say. I'm not there to mention some small project. The penitentiary of fines and innocents is an example of a large and large project that was successful, and I give the highest praise. Minister to do more of that. I'd like to agree with what was in the chair last time about insufficient funds for the office. [[The president calls.]] They have complained that there was insufficient funds, and recently there was a news report on the collapse of important work on the Earth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator or some other man. Congress members who participated in this vital discussion. I agree that with innovation and digital solutions, we see great opportunities to promote office growth and, especially, improve services for people. All the advantages listed here, to promote office, to use more active force, to expand the work in the country area, are especially within the reach of reducing the period of treatment of the many cases that are waiting in the capital area. So I would feel that there are many opportunities, and I would hope that I could start with some improved work that comes from this year's work. I restate on the fact that reevaluation of the expenses of the county bodies is now ongoing, but after a report of the State Review, this was thought to be necessary. Yet, 150 million were added. K. in the county office to strengthen the infrastructure and digital solutions. You're right. A senator says, I will appoint the county in the Western Islands next month. I want to reiterate that I think there is a great deal of agreement for this future vision of the county reformers, that these are powerful services, services in the district that can serve people from wherever they are of the country and whatever subjects they have to discuss by moving and having more localized, making better use of the services we have throughout the country, and not least to promote digital interiors that give us all these opportunities and goods.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u74	President. We'll discuss this with a question that is one of the three queries listed here. Minister of Justice and turning to protect children from violence in their homes, whether it is against them or against those close to them or for the benefit of children, when it comes to parental court decisions. It's such a short entrance. All of us want the welfare of children to always be first of all, and all of us want to respect the United Nations Children's Convention and my inquiries to see if this fundamental value is best paid in the current state-of-the-art community. These are rather lengthy questions, so I had planned to read them clearly to my listeners but looked forward to having detailed discussions at the top. A minister on how these matters will be best handled and whether there is something we can do better in this regard. I ask a minister, by permission of a president, if it affects the decision of society if it is thought that a child has been sexually abused, according to the Children's House assessment. Does Ministers believe that the system operates completely and in accordance with law when such cases arise? We know an example that the Child Welfare Committees, e.g. They think they can't intervene when it comes to society with a businessman. That is why I also ask, " Is there a concern or a story about violence on the part of another parent before a child's association with a parent is decided? ' I also ask when in the course of the case, before it comes to contact with a child, it is considered to determine if a parent has been judged, e.g. for child abuse. And finally, I ask a minister if she believes that it is safe to believe that a child who reports violence and does not want to see her parent is allowed to enjoy the doubt when it comes to socializing and child contact. In the context of the part, these questions are based on a very detailed discussion of the hour, where the experiences of those who suffered from sexual abuse were forced to associate with their parents, as well as on the conflict between nonviolence and violence that I recall. Minister has found him, too. I think we have a common flat here, we're supposed to talk about how we can do better. So I might ask a minister just in the first part of the four questions, but there are, of course, more that come to pass. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these inquiries, so to speak, and intend to bring me right into the answers. First, the question is, If a child is thought to have been sexually abused, or if he has dealt with such matters, he or she is likely to have an overall impact on such matters. It does not show whether a child has been sexually abused by a person in the community or in the care of a language partner or by someone else. However, if there is some kind of child abuse in the company of a businessman, it will be handled by investigating a case. In the case of contact with a businessman, there may be several problems. It includes doing interviews with children or parents. Data are presented on the part of parents, as well as on the basis of data obtained from children's protection, police or other sources. A child's law suggests that a businessman at all levels may then consult with a specialist in child care, but the businessman may assign a specialist to study the child's or parent's attitude and report it to the businessman. Then the businessman may also assign a specialist to give a review of certain matters of opinion that arise when there are reasons for some information that has been involved in possible violence. A businessman may also decide that an expert in child - care matters is present or that he will be thoroughly involved in the relationship between a child and a parent. Upon completion of the case, all data and information are then reviewed in a case prior to the decision by the county attorney, but data from the Children's House have already been valid when the decision to make contact is made. In accordance with the requirements of child law, a businessman must make a decision in a case where parents differ in the best of the child. A layman should evaluate both the risk that the child, parent, or other members of the child's household are affected or affected by violence and should be particularly concerned about whether differences or relationships between parents are likely to prevent, prevent, or reduce the child's ability to grow up under mature conditions. If a businessman believes that a child's relationship with a parent is an opposite of his or her needs, he will be able to determine that the right to care is unacceptable. However, according to local authorities, the Commission's assessment of violence is subject to a full-scale assessment of all the data presented. If a businessman believes that evidence suggests that a child has been sexually abused, or a child is in danger of such violence in a home or in the care of a parent's close association, this will affect the outcome. A layman may consider the absence of judgment to be a danger of violence. When asked about the overall cooperation of the system, the laws that apply to it must also be considered. Different organizations have various and distinct roles according to the law in these matters, but in the 17th chapter. it is recommended to cooperate with your partner's social services but it recommends that social counselling takes place, including for divorce issues, including prosecuting and close-up issues. It should always be applied in a natural way to other services under the law and in cooperation with others who offer such services, such as schools and clinics as appropriate. Such counseling has been limited, but the Department of Social Affairs has been forwarded in consultation with the Ministry of Justice to further such community service. Then they ask why. A senator when considering whether parents have been judged, e.g. for sexual abuse. Business matters begin at the very same time with parents being presented for an interview with a representative of the businessman, either together or separately, with information on the general practice, parental demands, and arguments as well as their guidance on the continuation and rights of the case, and they can provide evidence. If a parent's sexual abuse of a child has been judged, or if there is such a matter as police investigation or suspected, it will begin at the start of a case when the businessman sees it or at first interviews. If there is no accusation, suspicion, or other reason to consider whether a parent has been judged for criminal action, a study on these issues is not carried out specifically. As a general rule, it is not required in the administration of proof of good conduct when dealing with a businessman, but information may be presented at different levels of the case. If a parent's ability to receive judgment is revealed, it is determined as to the nature of the judgment and whether it affects the procedure of a court case. A decision to be made should always be made in line with what is best for a child. The evidence of violence by another parent should always be taken seriously and should be investigated by a businessman. Such investigation is not a criminal investigation, as it was in the police department, but it is about the child's interests and that it reveals the best association between child and child. [[The president calls.]] Like what? A senator gives us many questions, and I need to come to the last one. [[The president calls.]] In recent months, I have been meeting with both the County Family and the nonviolence of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u76	Mr. President. I thought of this part of the program, verbal inquiries and comments, saying that we senators probably got a lot of e - mails from a good and good citizen, a woman named Mæva Marlene Urbschat, and she pointed out that there are funds, e.g. In Germany, for the tolerance of sexual abuse during childhood, i.e. Some form of harassment or trauma, which will not handle matters until adulthood, sometimes needing assistance or even some relief. It's a question I don't expect to get the answer, but I'm just projecting into this room, whether it's looking at the founding of a similar fund in Iceland, with the intention of helping the people who have been affected in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u77	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by thanking you. paritaprevir Thorhjörn Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdótir for the inquiry and the highest. Minister for the answers. I'd also like to mention that it's fun, respectable president, that we're using this Monday in question class, it's often too short and often not enough queries available. But I'd also like to know that here is the full question of discussing that it's almost so I would have wanted an answer in writing too. But I intend to read the talk as the highest. Minister moved earlier. A respectable president. I just wanted to say, it's such a short time, that I understand very well and rejoice at it. paritaprevir Þríldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir made these inquiries because these stories we've been hearing in the media are naturally devastating. Each case is one matter too much. What's always most difficult about such stories is that they're just another aspect of the matter, and whether it's child protection committees, the Children's House, or other public members, they can't go into the discussion. As a result, it is very good for us senators to have a good review of how these people work. But we certainly need to keep an eye on this, making sure that the best interests of children are always ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u78	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I may miss hearing about food on this subject. We know that, at any rate, there are accounts of people who say that they have been forced to associate with a broken parent. Like what? paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir'sdots, says one case, is too much. What I feel is missing, and what I feel is not clear is a comprehensive assessment of when data are used to prevent association. About a year ago, the medium sent a question to the businessman in the capital area and asked if there were material data on cases where the person was suspected of sexual abuse against his child and where a child was considered to be at risk of child abuse, whether it was to him or to his siblings. A layman felt that he could not answer these questions. These data would not exist, there would be no data available. By permission of the President, it says in response from the county office: ▪ So regarding the precise number of 2009 decisions that make contact rights unacceptable, where there is a threat of violence, there is no information, but it can be said that they are very few. Here, an official from the county office is saying that there are very few decisions to be made where there was a potential for violence, but there was still a permit. First, I would like to ask a minister: Does she feel acceptable that there are some social decisions in which a child is considered to be a threat to association with his parent? Is that over a head an acceptable answer? Do we not need to have better data over when the threat of violence is deemed to be high enough to prevent association with a parent? [[The president calls.]] When we don't have these data, it's very difficult to find answers to the questions I just raised to the highest level. Ministers, whether to be taken at sufficient risk of reports of violence. [[The president calls.]] If we don't have any data on it, it can be the highest. There's no way a minister would answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Of course, it is most important that a general assessment of each subject and a specific assessment of the circumstances and the data presented is made, especially if the evidence suggests that child is at risk of violence. It's not acceptable that there are no more complete data on this situation than I can assure you. The Senator that the Ministry has recently taken a special look at society and day-care matters and has requested suggestions and tips on where we can do better and where the project needs to be made. All suggestions are considered. The decision has not been made whether or what to make changes, but it is for special consideration in the Ministry. For children and their viewpoints, it is important on a case by case basis based on age and development of the baby and on other issues in which the subject is deemed overall. As children grow older, their attitude has become more important and distinguishes a child from violence and/or do not want to meet their parent, there is an assessment of whether a child should be in special contact. As mentioned earlier, a businessman under child - law must make a decision in a case where parents differ from association, as a child is good, and a businessman should weigh the risk that the child, parent, or other members of the household have been exposed to violence and should be especially considered to be likely to avoid the child's upbringing under good conditions. If a businessman believes that a child's relationship with a parent is an opposite of his or her needs, he or she will decide that social rights are unacceptable. And it is important that these issues be taken into consideration, all the evidence, and that the child's interests are guided and that the child's best decision is to be made. [[The president calls.]] But I have these issues to consider, where we can do better, and I've had a good conversation with the county office, and I've seen a lot of will with them to discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u80	President. Here's another request of three to the highest. Minister of Justice and I would say that the protection of children against violence would be above the names of these inquiries. When it comes to this inquiry, I would like to direct a very important question to the highest level. Minister who may be more than the four most important questions. The minister sees himself in the inquiry form. It is: What is the minister's position to be interpreted as violent against a child of at least Two county replacements? This has been shown in the comments of a businessman who added to a bill at the highest level. For example, a president and others of the illusion that they view it as violent, e.g. The prosecutor sees it, not as child abuse, but as a spiritual neglect, as well as the comments of the above - mentioned bill. What position does it put us in when it comes to evaluating violence against a child, and what threat does a parent have if a businessman sees illusions as violent as another violence, even against a mother or a child, and then I mean physical violence? That is why the first question is: In any case that may arise in social affairs, a businessman sends an announcement to the Child Welfare Committee and is always announced to the Child Welfare Committee if a parent has been ordered to pay the day's fines and if so, why? The Agency's office in the capital area and in the Southnes will send an announcement to the Child Welfare Services if it is decided on a day - to - day fine by the so - called illusions, which they will make as an announcement of child abuse. Therefore, I also ask if a minister believes that it has sufficient impact on social matters when police announcements of parental violence to the child or the other parent are available. Should such announcements be more important to such matters than to any other subject? If a child has already interviewed a child in a children's house and there is evidence from this about the child's position, what staff at the county agency has the authority to interview children? Does a minister believe that it works against the interests of children if there is no limit to the number of times a businessman's decision on social relations, daily stress, or absence of custody? We hear repeated examples of repeated appeals. If it comes from the same person repeatedly, would it not have to be under the same language? I would have thought that it would be in the best interests of both parents when they are talking about charges in custody, that new issues cannot be appealed indefinitely. This, too, has been seen in the accounts of wrongdoing, that it was the greatest pain to have to face again for the county office to prove why they do not want to associate with a violent father. I may ask specifically because the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice. Minister, has come to the conclusion myself - I may just have to come to this in a second speech to the minister of my time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u81	A respectable president. There's a lot of things going on around the county. If a businessman receives information in the context of Article 16. The child - protection system is in accordance with Article 17. The law is to report it to the Child Protector. It is clear in the law, but it differs from office to Child Welfare if a parent has been ordered to pay a day's fines. According to information provided by the businessman in the capital area, it is not always sent out in such cases but, rather, when a businessman has reason to believe that the situation is the way described in Article 16. child protection laws as well as 2 mg. 74. g. baby law. An announcement to the Child Welfare Committee has been sent to approximately half of the cases when decisions in the day's fine have been made by the office, but other offices have either not received such cases for treatment but, if they agreed, an independent assessment of the need to report them to the Child Welfare Committee. Some officials always make a announcement to the Child Welfare Committee when day - to - day fines are laid because of the illusion of association with a child. This is the information I have to answer the first question raised in question at any time. Senator. Regarding whether it has sufficient relevance to communications when there is police announcements, I refer to an answer to a inquiry, i.e. that an overall evaluation should always be made with all the evidence available on whether a child is in the best interests of his or whether he or she should simply not enjoy it. It is not possible to determine the relevance of all police announcements because the nature of the report, the severity of the case and the development may vary in individual matters, and therefore it is important that it be determined overall based on this information and the information available in this case. Regarding the staff at the county office that is authorized to interview children and whether such interviews are taken even though a child has already attended interviews at the Children's House, a child has the right to express his opinion on all matters. This is in accordance with Article 12. The United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which has been legalized in this country, is therefore the right to speak of the right of a child to express himself in the matter of which it is rather than the authority of a businessman to interview the child. It is the child's right to make sure that and that information from the Children's House reporting is an important part of an investigation through contact. However, the purpose of an interview with a child in a children's house is not to examine a child's view of dating. So that a child has had an interview in a children's house or with other members or specialists outside the county's office does not replace an interview in the county's case to allow a child to have the right to express himself in accordance with the laws of the child and the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. In the management of matters involving custody or contact with a businessman, a child may be able to communicate with a specialist or reconciliation specialist in the context of reconciliation, expert advice, review, team, surveillance or interview, according to 74.g. baby law. According to information from the county's office in the capital area, which is responsible for the national reconciliation and expert advice, the staff who interview children in child care. At the office, five social advisers with legal qualifications operate from the surgeon's office in more than four positions. According to the government, a vast and broad range of professional experience in the field of work with children and in the interests of children has been given special training in interviewing techniques for learning, including interviews with children. Whether it is contrary to the interests of children that there is no limit to the number of times that the businessman's decision to socialize, stress of day before judgment, or rejection may be difficult to limit this right too much because circumstances may change quickly or in a short time, e.g. from transport or death. So it is difficult to believe that this is particularly limited, but if the survey reveals that the basis is totally unchanged, there may be good reason for simply dismissing the case and doing it again. It is difficult to set minimum time from the last decision because if the criteria have changed in a very short period of time, the basis is not the same as possibly a reason to resume the situation. Therefore, it may be dangerous to set limits on how often you can sue an individual as a service agency and have your first and last individual decision to make a child's interests in social matters. On the other hand, I agree with the views that have been suggested, that there might be a possibility of sharpening the rights of an attorney in a child's law to dismiss matters without extensive court treatment, if the circumstances clearly have not changed since the last decision. That's what I'll look at, as well as the tips as possible. A senator comes with regard to barriers to children, how they are defined, and it is merely a suggestion that they are defined differently. But I can assure you what. A senator that would never be defined as the same infraction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u82	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I asked about the effect of a single parent's announcement of violence on the matter and on the decision. I'm referring to a story from a woman who has spent a considerable amount of time informing us about her treatment and we have considered a court case decision that saw the woman not having the opportunity to express herself, and where it is overlooked that both police charges and reports of violence against a spouse were reported. It is not properly considered in the Ministry nor is it from a businessman; rather, it is agreed to the woman's blame for having hindered association with the violent man. In this regard, I speak of Sigrún Sif, who is the head of a life free from violence, and it is of course worrying to read about such a procedure, especially because of the master essay made by Elísabet Gísladóttir on social matters since 2009. Four decisions, specifically stated that the violent or suspected violence of a father against a mother had no effect in general on dating. This situation was to be changed by law from 2012 on children's rights to protect them from violence. But what's so pathetic, tops. The president is that we have no evidence to support whether this has been the case because the businessman claims he has no information about it. We cannot determine if this change of law had the desired effect, that the violence of one parent against the other had an impact on association. We need the evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this discussion, but he doesn't feel it proper to discuss here a very special case in which I have neither a basis nor permission for the person. It is most important in these matters that all the announcements that are presented are taken seriously and generally evaluated the available data and that the child's rights are respected and his interests are guided by the way it is determined about associations. As I've been told before, these cases are being considered in the Ministry. But because of him. At the end of these numbers, a senator refers to the development of a administrative system to ensure a better access to information and data, as well as the statistical information to assess the impact of laws and other changes. Of course, it is important to see how we can do better because it is always a system that involves people that we should always be considering if there is something we can do better than what we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u84	A respectable president. Here is my last request of three to the highest. Minister of Justice, but I agree with that. paritaprevir But it was Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's joke that it might have been written inquiries. However, I have a few of these in the handshake that will follow these verbal inquiries. What I may have been primarily seeking with these verbal inquiries was to get a minister's position, whether it feels that it is well - maintained when it comes to fear that children have been subjected to violence or others in close relationships. I don't think it's clear enough in response to a minister if she thinks it is, and whether the county office in the capital area is good enough on these matters. After reading reports of tolerance in the media, I have found considerable concern about the situation. It cites these unique points, and I believe that I have the full authority to discuss them in this public discourse because it is a public subject that has been discussed by the individual. So I'm here with my last inquiry for the highest degree. Minister and ask: What evidence of child abuse, parent, or other abuse in the child's household is important to the Court's assessment when it is decided on sexual relations according to Article 47. children's law, and when a judge determines custody, or a child's legal rights, according to Article 34. The law? Is this always looked forward to having reports from Children's House, Police Reports, or other similar data? V.E.G. To some extent, a minister has answered this question, so I may want to focus especially on the second question in this inquiry. It's: How can a parent make sure that a child does not have to associate with his or her other parent if the authority has reported the violence of that parent against the child or other close - to him, as stated at 46 C.E. A child's law that says that if a child is not in opposition to his goods, he will enjoy companionship? I especially ask because of what I mentioned earlier at the highest level. Ministers involved in the Commission's view of being violent. If they believe that illusions are violence, despite the threat of sexual abuse or serious physical violence, how can this be determined? If a minister is acceptable, the interpretation of the county bodies on the basis of inhibiting contact is not acceptable, e.g. When it comes to illusions, do prosecutors and attorneys other than the law? Does she think that's acceptable? Do not have to change this to make it clear how the Commission interprets what is best for a child if they do not have a legal interpretation, e.g. The district attorney and if he doesn't seem to have improved in the law itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. It is true that I have specifically introduced the first question before, and I would just like to confirm that a businessman's assessment of violence depends on this overall assessment of all the evidence. According to the conversation I've had with the county, all the data that indicate that violence is involved and their importance is measured in the light of their contents. Children's house data and police reports are considered very important in such matters, and it is important that we continue to do so. If this needs to be explained further, it is for the Ministry to consider. It is my opinion that we can always do better and should always be looking at our system, e.g. From the examples in which we see these things, as stated earlier, only laws and regulations and conduct on people's lives. But the second question is why. The senator was about how a parent can make sure that a child does not have to associate with the other parent if the authority has reported its violence and according to Article 3. Twenty-eight. Child law includes the precarious care of a child in order to protect his child from any form of violence or other disrespectful conduct. Parents can negotiate if they agree on this. Then the parent with whom a child lives may feel that associating with the other parent is contrary to the child's interests, asking the county to decide that there is no association with that parent. It may also be asked by a parent as part of a requirement in a court of premeditation or law, but under the supervision of the court, a person may require temporary separation decisions that should be temporarily valid or until the case is finally resolved. Investigators, judges, or judges, investigate the facts and accusations of alleged violence and assess its impact on dating, whether to be monitored by experts in child - care matters at first, or whether to avoid contact. And it is important that the county can always consult their child - care providers to help with this complete assessment and the data presented or interviewing their children in order to get the right to express themselves or to monitor their contacts. It is important that we consider this and keep all these contacts in perspective, because it is also important that we make it more important that we put it into practice, which is then in line with the previous inquiry regarding the entire county administration, more heavy on these matters, more emphasis on their progress, faster working, that all rights are guaranteed. We can do this by moving others to do something different and by trying to reduce the success of an office that is especially responsible for these matters. I see an opportunity to do better and to have a good conversation with the groups that have described dissatisfaction with the system and with the businessmen who want to do better. We are having a constant conversation, and we are considering these matters from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u86	Mr. President. I felt that there was reason to come up and celebrate this discussion, both to express thanks and to the highest degree. A minister for clear answers and welcomes the statement regarding opinions on sharpening authority to dismiss matters. We see that there are times when a man may go out with a decision and in and start a new case. I'm a little worried, and I'll share them with the adminent and, in fact, the Minister of Justice, too, with the treatment of this suit and both the level of administration and the level of judgment. I feel that suspicion of violence is not taken seriously when it is related to a custody case, and perhaps we too fully support the fundamental court of justice and assist these cases as a criminal case in cases where they are not, but we are dealing with the child's interests. At times, it may be necessary to discuss where there are more than a lot of odds, but perhaps not directly from the rules of criminal law. All I want to do is come up here and encourage this discussion to continue and take care and responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u87	A respectable president. I also thank you for this discussion with the advisor and the highest answers. Minister. I came up first of all because of the illusion, whether it was violence, or not. Now I'm one of the partners on such a bill, and I believe that being with both parents and children should be the rights of children, but the health and well - being of the child must always be number one, two and three. So I find it difficult to understand that a government person determines that the welfare of a child is involved in associating with someone who is considered to have been violent. That is why I would have liked to take them up from the discussion of the so - called illusion bill. No one's supposed to be in the position of having to resort to some of these. I just agree with what's been going on in the discussion. It is important to discuss this from careful management, and it is necessary to have knowledge, time, and funds to handle these difficult and complex tasks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u88	A respectable president. Also, I would have liked to keep this discussion out of the persuaded speech. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir mentioned. But I don't necessarily feel that these two cases can be separated, and I refer to the district attorney's review of the fate of the bill. A member of the body is now a member who came to define barriers as violence. According to one U.S. district attorney, the practice of restricting or limiting the parent's right to his child may include spiritual neglect. It is a completely different case than a violent case, according to the definition and classification of childhood protection systems supported by the Children's Health Organization, which does not mention any association or association at all. Child - welfare committees are approaching illusions, and they alone do not see the violence of a child and lawyers that the hour has discussed with them, and there I am referring to the hour, the excuse, I forgot to switch between, a respectable president - ◯ Don't consider any legal examples that give rise to such interpretations. It worries me in the absence of a legal warrant, from what our opinion is about whether it should be present or not, that it is used as a logical support from the county office to report to the Child Welfare Committees the Mother's Violence Against a Child. If recovery is not available, there is something missing in the county office that uses a concept that is not supported by law. And because of the highest. A minister said that it was very important to make sure that children are not forced to associate with violent people, I just want to admit that I feel that it must be very clear that there is a need for a collection of data in this, based on the County Commission's answer to whether children have been forced to associate with a parent who has even been judged for sexual crime against it. [[The president calls.]] A client doesn't know if it's happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u89	A respectable president. I just want to thank you. Congress members who participated in this discussion are important. It is important to try to speed up this treatment and improve it for the benefit of all persons. You're right. paritaprevir Halla Gunnarsdóttir came on, and I repeated in my first answer that this is not a criminal case, but the conclusion of being out of the child's best interests at any time. These matters need to be discussed with careful management and responsibility, and I'm considering sharpening these deductions and taking any indication of change, as it is for the management of the Ministry to examine them. I have had a good conversation to try to strengthen this treatment, both to speed it up and to see ways to make it better than especially to achieve these data collections that we are working on, which is important to see how changes in child law have been affected and whether they have affected the results. It is a major research project that would require a number of decisions, both the judges of the district and the Supreme Court, to see this in the overall context of the objects. But we need to be able to observe how our changes are affected, so at least Better sources of data to be available. It is in progress, along with the assignment and the better analysis of how we can better handle these matters, plan them well, and maintain the ministry so that people can be at peace with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u90	President. I'm going to have a word here at the highest. and financial and economic ministers on climate issues. I've made it my game here in this pit to have a word with several Ministers on these matters. I'm very concerned that we will achieve the mental and general changes that we would like to talk about during festival hours that we need to achieve the fight against the climate, into something practitional into our system, into the law, that we use everything that is possible to fight the climate problem. That's why I wanted to talk to the highest. Because Iceland is one of the member countries of the Paris Convention, and it is widely understood. Two. it speaks of the nature of the Paris Convention and how to strengthen global response to the threat of climate change taking into account sustainable development and efforts to eliminate poverty. One of the requirements for action is to, by permission of the President, make capital flow compatible with the process in terms of low greenhouse gas emissions and the development of climate change resistance. In other words, the financial resources of society, the capital, are to be used to combat climate. According to the Paris Convention, the funding flow is to be used against the climate. That's why I'd like to ask the highest government property. Minister, first of all, the way he thinks it might be met by the 2nd C-ili. The Paris Convention, which I read earlier, about operations in climate matters validated by the Council of September 19, 2016, through the government's holding on financial institutions and tenants policy. Second, how does a minister gain knowledge of loans? This, in turn, turns to another advantage of taking advantage of the government and its opportunity, and the general rules for credit institutions in this country. I myself believe that it is archaic to think of loan agencies and their rules solely out of old-fashioned interest issues, that climate needs to be taken into it, even if only for example. I'll be on carbon and stuff like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u91	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that in the area of finance the Ministers have been cooperating on climate matters, and it has been arranged for international cooperation with the minister of finance - this is a partnership that leads to Finnum and Chile - people would be able to succeed and learn from each other. What I wanted to say in particular about this cooperation, which we've decided to be a part of since 2018, is that it's amazing to observe the weight of this partnership, how much growth is involved in everything that's happening and last appeared at the meeting of the World Bank last year I attended. This is a question for financial companies at home, and I'm going to let them know that in financial policy, there are many things related to Iceland's climate policy, which guide the Paris Convention's policy from 2015 and the UN global objectives. It even says, by permission of the president: The Bankas and executives, as well as others involved in the affairs of finance for the State, should follow established guidelines for the administration of enterprises and seek to be in the lead in a good way of government, trade, and community responsibility. It says elsewhere: The Society shall work on the social goals that the owner is going to pursue through the holding. And then: The EU shall establish its detailed environmental policies, the sustainable development and social responsibilities, and the public publication. It's a pleasure, including. In this light, pointing out that Iceland and the Lands Bank were among founders to tie the ◯ Community responsibility centres, while the aim of the institution Festus was to increase knowledge of corporate social responsibilities and to promote the capacity of companies to take on social responsibility. As part of the European Community responsibilities centres, banks have been involved, including In the climate declaration Festus and Reykjavíkurburg, and more might be picked up. Iceland is also the founder of the Norse Director's Association for sustainable futures established a year ago. It is the purpose of encouraging common leadership and action in connection with world goals, with the Paris State issue being guided by it. I can continue to mention such initiatives on the part of the banks, their participation in such efforts, or their agreement. In September the National Bank was writing under a new standard for responsible banking activities published by the United Nations Environment Agency. These general words are followed by the State in the tenet policy, and it is considered a further crumbling process. The banks have both set up social responsibilities, as this is linked to the bank's practice. In this regard, we see clear emphasis on the UN's principles on corporate social responsibilities, activities related to the UN's world aims, and funding of projects with the printing of green debts. I think it's a good thing to show that there's ambition to be effective in these things. I'd like to give you an example of a project from the year 2018 that shows that people are following this in action. The National Bank lent to projects that reduced greenhouse gas emissions, e.g. by renewal in the fishing fleet, the electricalisation of a local fishing factory, and the campaign for the renewal of wetlands. On the other hand, Iceland Bank decided to negotiate with Votlands funds for stopping 200 tons of greenhouse gas emissions and up to 15th of the world's target. I could also mention a field of cooperation on green financial systems, which are part of a number of countries. With all of this in mind, special laws and ordinances have not been considered to be of particular concern today, but there is reason to follow these steps. As I said at the outset, I find the most remarkable movement in the global financial environment of climate at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u92	Mr. President. This is a very interesting request, as well as the best answers. Minister. I believe the monologue is not only a government agency that puts on climate and environmental policies and values its ecology, but that state banks do. The amount of money can be a conditional success in climate and, more importantly, it can refer to all financial resources, for credit or money over the head is the key to faster improvements in climate. Of course, there may be exceptions, but at the same time, it would also be wise to see if and how to determine some type of financial incentive to take this eco-friendly approach to the job. That would be a thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u93	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for presenting this request and the highest. Minister for responding. I think this discussion is most relevant in the councilroom. This is one of our largest community projects, the climate, and it is clear that they will not be solved here in this hall or in Assembly Halls throughout the world, they will be solved by concerted efforts, and especially by professional and government. That is why I have been very happy with government and commercial discussions on climate matters. I think that's exactly why we need to examine further incentives to further encourage business whether it's business or financial institutions owned by the government or by the private sector. But it is also a pleasure to see it, just as the highest. The minister came in, how huge a wake-up for these agents. I don't think it's possible to visit a rich and hot company today, not that climate and social responsibilities are on the agenda seriously in such companies, but that no company is going to have anything to do with the future different than having it on its policy list.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u94	President. Thank you very much. Minister more than a fine answer. That was the finest overview of what is going on. And I'm the highest. A minister to take advantage of this answer and to write as one piece on these matters could reveal it in a clue or somewhere, for the above discussion is absolutely correct that there is a lot to do in these matters. I don't suppose we've talked about the need to do something for a long time, and the time for action has long come. V.E.G. A minister admitted that banks, both Landsbank and Iceland, had lent to projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That's fine, that's for sure. However, I think it needs to take a step further because reading what we signed and validated in the Paris Treaty, which says, by President's permission, make a financial flow compatible with the process in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and development of resistance to climate change (EPS) cannot help but conclude that it should not be lent to projects that increase greenhouse gas emissions. There must be two sides on this coin, not only about projects that reduce emissions, but also about not lending emissions to projects that increase emissions. But that is one thing that changed with regard to these issues in all these international treaties, and now each country has to make its own deserts for recession. Hence, each one of the loans can affect the entire state of the world. In this context, at the end, I'd like to come up with a little something I barely reached at the end of the day, i.e. Emissions that become more expensive, natural, so the companies need to start calculating this into their calculations. [[The president calls.]] For example, land activation begins to look to the inner level of carbon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u95	A respectable president. Here we go. A senator into some of the important things I think are gradually developing in the international financial world, and I pointed to the fact that at a meeting at the World Bank last year, I would have found this very strong. I felt it in both speeches, stories you listened to there, e.g. ... ata meetingofthe fiscal Ministers. There, the secretary - general of the United Nations, president of the World Bank, the World Bank, the World Bank Fund, the director of the OECD, England's money manager, was present to discuss this matter. In Carney's case, the bank manager of England reported that we were going through a change right now that would eventually lead to a normal view of climate in all loans, and he saw a future in which it would pay for such investments. It would be more important to provide for the financial sector. In fact, there were antiquated ideas, even some of which would be reduced from other loans, e.g. to practice which would be contaminated, with specific interventions. This made me think very big words and very interesting to see how much weight was in the words of those who spoke there. It also came to all international meetings, some of our direct members, and others interested in viewing opportunities in Iceland, that people are looking primarily for opportunities to cooperate with Iceland or lend money to Iceland or Icelandic companies because of green projects. It was number one, two and three. [[The president calls.]] That was the first time I found it as strong as there was. This is certainly a matter of action.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u96	Mr. President. In this country, there is a long history of public involvement in science, and experience is good. Such cooperation between public, social, and scientific institutions has resulted in a wide range of knowledge, e.g. In geology, weather polls, studies on glaciers, ancient remains, birds, seals, and fish, to name something. The most common form of cooperation has been that interested persons receive statistics and other information from experts in development, but they have little access to tasks other than one preferably within the field of Iceland's Jölk Research Association, since its establishment in 1950. In recent years, technological advances have opened up revolutionary possibilities to build more powerful bridges between science, the public, policy, and practical knowledge. By promoting the role of the public, it is possible to solve a multiple effect that can extend far beyond the level of knowledge, especially in the form of attitude change, a lock of our environment, responsible behavior, and increased ability to care for natural quality. Such cooperation has its names. It even goes. the following are the examples of their work and purpose, their domains and definitions, the English terms such as, by the permission of the president, ◯citizen socience, and the ◆cologists of Knowledge. In the United States, democracy has just been used, in Icelandic. This opening of scientific work represents the change from research to research at ◯ including the most important force in the community. This increases knowledge among individuals and experts, increases the responsibility of the subjects themselves, and hastens the completion of the task. The development of democracy has been very rapid in recent years, and a number of projects have developed, and an organization has developed. There, environmental and climate issues have been very difficult to deal with. The same applies to the rich flea branches, literature, and books that strengthen the foundation. Various nationalities, including Germany, Canada, and Australia, have been working on policy development in this area and have even established some kind of laws and rules. Such emphasis is also expressed by the European Union, which encourages greater scientific activity by public participation. In the autumn of 2019, the National rights School, Landkeeping, and Land Protection for the National Institutes of the North and shortly thereafter stood at the Norwegian House, the National Health School, National Protection, Bird Protection, a National Research Centre on North and Environmental Resources in Iceland's University, two seminaries where this experience was discussed. Now I'd like to direct an inquiry to the highest level. Minister of Education and Culture, Alfreðsdóttir Alfredur, who reads: 1st Does a minister think that the structure, and the vastest, of the public's involvement in helping with the scientific work of a so - called democracies is important? 2. Is there a need to frame democracy with law or regulations, as is customary, e.g. In Germany?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry I consider to be remarkable and important, especially in view of our being at a significant milestone. Here we are going to have an enormous amount of technological advances in science, and we will discover something new forever. We see that because of advances in medicine, the age of life in the nations is increasing, and there are many things that are happening in the realm of science that affect our daily lives that we need to consider. So I believe the inquiry is certainly relevant. A respectable president. I believe that the involvement of the public in science in the vastest way would benefit all of us. Scientific and technical advice has placed great emphasis on open science and the exchange of scientific data and results to society. It is our job to perform in this field, whether in scientific policy or in the implementation of research, to activate and strengthen the public's knowledge of scientific work and to promote a total between scientists and the citizens. As for democracy in Iceland, as shown in the case of what. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, co-work of scientists and the public, and the activities of Iceland's Jörk research organization, have been very successful and have received worthy attention both at home and beyond the rocks, and have greatly increased research in Iceland. I also want to know that in everything connected with the Ring Table of the North, we have a demand for many groups to get closer to science. It is our responsibility, especially those who engage in scientific research, to present it. I believe there is a greater debate and a better access to policy-based facts rather than even not, and that's not as good as understanding. There are many cases of a free group, to form communities of patients who have contributed to science by raising funds and encouraging discussions about common and rare diseases, thus giving and giving strong support and encouragement to study them. As I said in my introduction, democracy is all the more important to nations, just because of the chapters that are becoming in many societies because of scientific progress. We can see by the fourth industrial revolution that the work market is simply changing considerably because of this. This has many opportunities, but we need to make sure that this is a general understanding and a public involvement in the new workforce we see. I believe science and everything related to it, so a good bioavailability is that the changes that are taking place are good. A respectable president. The question was addressed to the minister whether to establish a biological framework of law or law, as is customary in Germany. I don't think there's a need for a special law code on democracy right now. Demography is based on the self - burning interest of the public in participating in science, usually in volunteer work. More legal than modern science, science, and Icelandic university, etc. - I don't see what the situation is now that it will be more likely to promote democracy. But I am truly ready to consider another arrangement, and I have strong conviction that the need to open and increase public access to all scientific work and that democracy is a very good setting in this regard. I believe, therefore, that it may be considered to appoint a team for further development.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u98	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to hear her answers, and they are pleased to hear her interest and positive attitude. I discussed specific meetings that had been conducted for the first time in the past, and they formally emphasized the importance of promoting the role of the public in this work of knowledge. This is in harmony with international developments, and it is clear historically seen that we have good information on the land to increase the share of democracy. I agree that it would be good to appoint a government service group that would have the responsibility to better identify the status of democracy than we have done here and to shape some kind of policy and especially direction. This is all that needs to be just a minimum democracy protocol. I agree, however, that it is not necessarily time for us to need some sort of legal code, but it would be good to match the interaction between players, experts, institutions, etc. are, and that is precisely increasing the participation of people beyond collecting data; developing some kind of involvement in the processing, participation in discussions, and other such activities because all of this is the gaining of knowledge for a good group of people, promoting that work will be carried out. This includes, in my opinion, Arctic research specifically, e.g. Where there is speciality of the people of the north, and even of the natives where appropriate, it is very important for good research to go over the north, making for speciality in the north. In other words, thanks so much for the discussion and the reaction of a minister. So I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-03-56.u99	A respectable president. I believe it is important to set up this task force to shape a particular policy. I agree with that. A senator that, regarding scientific activity in the north, to participate in the indigenous and the public, and we have evidence and experience in this country, is of great importance, e.g. Ecological studies. In addition, I believe that a holding of all cooperation, scientific research - the more and the more involved, the more likely the research is going to be successful. I've given a lot of weight to it in the Scientific and Technical Council that I don't think these factors have been sufficiently successful. I've mentioned it and repeated it to the scientific and technical conferences. Because of the changes that are taking place, both in technology, in communication and in how we approach information today, its advice must be as scientific and technical advice to be very aware of these changes and to consider the policy issues taking place. Although I believe that many good things have been accomplished in the last few years, I believe we must do better because there is a great benefit in increasing the interest of children and young people in science. I believe there is much in Icelandic society to offer because we have special knowledge in many areas. I mention the glaciers and the earth history, the heat, and many other factors. A respectable president. I find this to be a very exciting subject. Thank you. A senator is eager to bring it up and to motivate us in this regard.
