ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u1	President wants to report a change in the schedule. The prime committee decided at their meeting earlier today to make the adjustment of the work schedule that Tuesday, May 26, and Wednesday, May 27, will be the day of the committee and that a meeting will be held on Thursday and Friday, May 28 and 29.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u2	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u3	Borist has received a letter from a foreign and development co-work minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 1164, on contracts of government funds, from Biri Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u4	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Foreign and Development Collaboration Minister, Tourism, Industrial and Development Ministers, Minister of Social Affairs and Children's Ministers, Environment and Resource Ministers and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u5	Mr. President. A recent article after the Supreme Opportunity. A prime minister and an interview in the Progressive International website called my attention. In fact, she says so. that while left men in Europe see much, it is their duty to work together to seek solutions. At the same time, in times of climate change and economic inequities, there must be a bold and progressive policy with social justice, gender equality, climate and international cooperation guided. I agree with this, and I may not have to be surprised because these projects and the duty of my left groups have been discussed many times here. Now I don't know if Prime Ministers feel that cooperation with the Independence Party is likely to achieve the radical social and economic changes it considered necessary in this article or whether it considers the Independence Party even to the forward left European movements, or whether it feels that these left - handed groups in Europe are required to work together that radical measures only apply to elsewhere from Iceland. But let it be, and rather discuss the inequities that the prime minister made to talk about. Last week, Iceland's record was funded when money from a country's common resources was turned over to a new generation. The government will provide progressive genetic tax, in terms of moderate savings, e.g. An apartment house, continued a 10% tax rate, but the percentage increased greatly when there were hundreds of millions, billions, or even more, or the bill for a major tax on those who have hundreds of millions of dollars in clean property, as the prime minister certainly proclaimed before the last election? What are some other plans, and what are they? And I'm not asking for what has already been announced.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for drawing attention to the fine company, Progressive International, which is involved in international cooperation of progressive fish in a world where we see a major setback in many places, e.g. When it comes to people's rights. It is enough to look to our next neighbor in Europe and a recent legislator in Hungary to form the rights of transmisers. Well, we haven't been on that road in Iceland, but I think it's very important that the left - handed class is looking for any way to get real effect. We've seen them appear in this ideal period, even though they do. A senator doesn't want to discuss that success, to form in the recent sexual autonomy laws, so I'll take just one small example. I could mention many examples related to sexual equality, climate change, and equation. Hv. However, a senator asks, as I understand the question after a long introduction, especially the news that was here last week about what was called the summer present of the century, i.e. give Samherja the president of the firm to his children. First of all, I think it would be very interesting to look at the ideas of the step-traveling genetic tax, as I have previously said in response to a question of what. A senator on that subject. But second of all, I think we what. A senator and other officials have a rich obligation to complete their work on a new budget of resources. I recall that this question was asked in 2012 if people wanted to see the national resource arrangements in a constitution and answered the overwhelming majority of the people yes. The same findings were found in a recent poll made by presidents of the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] I believe that is actually the basis for us to discuss the resource use in Iceland, that we will underscore the rightness of the constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u7	Mr. President. True, we are under obligation to replace and accept a resource directive in a constitution, but it does not matter what it looks like. They need to look out for things as if it were a natural currency and a time binding warrant or something like that. It's not on the table right now. But let's go to another. In the preceding article, the highest is spoken. Prime Minister, too, about the need for left men to unite against right forces, especially foreigners. Now I realize that the Independence Party may not be considered to be an extreme force, although it has published its peculiar views in e.g. Such matters as pregnancy break up and other matters, and in foreign languages today. In the context of this, I wondered how Prime Minister can justify leaving the right category that runs a hard foreign policy of affairs in this country and of the highest degree. Minister, president of the left-green movement, is giving a team of nonhuman foreign policy legalities to the present government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u8	Mr. President. I'll go to the first thing. A senator, chairman of the United Nations, says that it is very important that we agree on a constitution of resources and that it does not care what it is. [[It doesn't matter what it feels like.]] But do we not all agree that the resources are not to be delivered permanently? Isn't that basic? And do we not agree that the constitution should reveal the base lines that lay the lines to the Lawgiver? And do we not agree on what it means not to deliver resources permanently? Because that's very well explained. It is explained that it is then either temporary use or stated with certain warnings, if I recall correctly, the product of the 2000 resource directive and is explained in this way by the bill presented in the government's consultation puzzle. Then I'd like to say that no more people have received international protection in Iceland than in 2019 if we have any numbers. The Icelandic government went a different route, and I wasn't part of a government then, so it's not that it's really thanks to me, but governments to form other countries in the north that set much more extreme alien rules in their time when the refugee wave hit Europe. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I don't know exactly what to do with it. A senator is referring to a case that is better handled, relatively large, there has been a solid agreement here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u9	A respectable president. The country has stood together as one man to overcome Covid-19. The people's stand has been fundamental to our success. Our nation has been well informed and clearly informed of all operations, and the common people have followed counseling and have taken limits on daily life. It is important to keep limits, some of which have human rights, always to reason. Freedom must be nobility, restrictions require support. We are happy to meet our people again, embrace our friends again, swim and recover our daily realities, and perhaps even more precious than ever before. Governments, and I want to commend them, have listened to advice from experts, and I have the support to do so. However, there is now the political decision presented by the prime minister, in front of five other government advisers, who underline the political decision to open the country again to tourists on June 15th. It is our democratic role in the government opposition to show support, to ask questions, to listen to our people we all meet outside the council. We need to demand an answer to the government. This is a big step. This is a very important step we are taking this June 15th. It is a step that reflects the positive results of our Icelanders in fighting the virus, but the nation needs to know what the plan will be. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What is the course? When will it be introduced and the plan of action with regard to June 15th? And there's a lot of things hanging on that stick.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u10	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's request, and I want to start by saying that I strongly agree with her that there is always a need to support the limitations that are presented that impair people's freedoms and rights. I believe that we have done well with it in Icelandic society and would like to draw attention to the fact that we have not resorted to such dramatic, dramatic, forgiveable, Mr. President, measures, and various other countries that have been used to make use of exodus, for example, an extremely drastic procedure, but have emphasized very strict preventive measures. It was disputed at the time when the decision was made to keep school going in play and elementary schools. However, the motion was made by an aesthesiologist. We are among the few countries who decided not to close schools because we thought that this was a well - supported proposal and followed. For the opening of a border, it was presented as a provision that would be with certain conditions, i.e. that, on the one hand, we would demand to be diseased or screened on the border. We also made clear when it was announced that there would be some information to be available before the operation was started and we would say, in effect, " Here is the policy, but because we want to have everything as useful as possible, we'd like to tell you what is going on before we can attack it. As to the risk analysis of Land Hospital, I am told that it has already been returned to the health - care minister and minister responsible for this project, expecting results from a workgroup later today on on how to be present at the time of the screening. A hagreen analysis of potential risks of thus opening the border will not be available until June 1. [[The president calls.]] Since I have announced a meeting of the chairman of the classes tomorrow, I had thought of explaining how that work is at that meeting so that everything is as beneficial as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and expect much of our meeting of presidents tomorrow, more than was informed at our last session. I strongly emphasize that the public, the whole nation, will soon be made aware of how we take this step, how we take it, what we do on top of it, if, some say when, a setback. What kind of message are we bringing to our people, for example? with pre-existing conditions? If a relapse occurs, what message are we sending to the tourist service that is hoping to open a little bit? What measures will the government take, and what is the message? We all need to be on the same page, that it's not just the government, it's all of us together, because we want to be on this together. But then we need information, and it's not clear enough. I understand a lot of things in this, but I want to encourage a minister and a government to inform us tomorrow, to inform us of the whole nation, and not just the officers, as all of us first, so that everyone is aware of the next steps and the next games in the difficult situation we are in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u12	Mr. President. It is difficult to open borders, especially when we know that the virus is still on the move and is still affecting various nations of this world. It is quite possible that it is not until we have a suitable vaccine or a cure that we can say is 100% safe. The thought behind the scan and the contour, that it is the possibilities, is that the step that will be taken to open the vital step will be as cautious as possible but that we have already obtained as much information as possible. You're right about what you're doing. A member of the council that the information available is still insufficient. This is because the work force is not finished. He has to complete his work today and return to the health minister and economic analysis will be submitted on June 1. I agree with what you're saying. Of course, a senator's need is to introduce classes at the General Assembly how the matter unfolds, but it is also important to introduce to the public the situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The final point is that the Dentist proposes to the highest level. The secretary of health for this arrangement and whether he adequately values it will be possible to make a final decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u13	A respectable president. On June 20, 2019, nearly a year ago, we ran from room to room here to make a deal, as we called it. For Christmas vacations and vacations, the government's side has some contract with the government and is allowed to take a case from a committee to bring it into the 2nd suit. And even votes. In this case, it is the first Senate case, which I ordered here immediately before Christmas 2017 and ended up in Congress, with the approval of all classes, June 20, last year. The conclusion was that the assessment of the financial impact of the state's funds was to eliminate the decrease in pensioners'social security due to pay. V.E.G. A minister agreed that the evaluation of the Independents would be performed in cooperation with the Department of Social Affairs in evaluating financial impacts, whether it cost some money to eliminate these losses from the elderly, but we had twice produced calculations where we bought from the available professionals in town, who said that the profit would be due to granting older citizens a chance to continue working without impairment. Now I want to ask the highest. A minister who made a plagion resolution that by March 1, 2020, before March 1, he would show up here to be absolutely clear whether any cost would be due or not. If he was not going to bring a bill that would result in the removal of these decrease in income from the elderly. So I ask the highest. Minister: What news?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for this inquiry. It is true that at the end of the council, we went from room to room, as is often done at the end of the council, and from the members of a Senate hearing that was approved for a slight change made by the people's party, which included the social and child - care minister being assigned to win this assessment. Capacent was agreed to win the assessment, made a contract for it. It was slightly delayed, but they have now submitted the assessment. Her conclusion was that this was a substantial cost for a government fund. I'm expecting the report to go to the Ministry's Web for the next few days if it's not already there. It was also laid down in the synonym, agreed by all members of the Parliament, that if the cost is paid according to this independent assessment - I restate that it was made by Capacent - the review should refer to a special group of staff who are now in charge of the status and ideal older citizens and that the review has been sent there. I'm sorry if it hasn't been published publicly and will determine after this request that it go directly to the Ministry's Web, if it isn't already there, and ask that it be sent out too. A senator by e-mail.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. In other words, it's a bit much to learn, though, I've actually missed it, most certainly. Minister, for we also had an agreement, which I hope to the highest. A minister will be as much concerned and precisely this, that if this assessment showed that it was the cost of a government fund to eliminate these impairments, he was to form a mate group and he specifically invited me to participate in it. I haven't really heard anything about now, and I'm sorry. I really don't like it if I'm supposed to say it right now. I wish for the highest. Ministers hold our agreement from A to Z and I trust he will.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u16	A respectable president. I have to say, I am very pleased that this assessment was made, although a monthly deadline or something like this occurred because most of the projects we have been working on, other than those related to Covid, have been put on ice and have been delayed for the last month because of the condition and consequences of Covid. So even though this assessment is due a little later than expected in the state of the Parliament, we are still incredibly short. Then I think it would be best for me to do what I want. A senator would use conversation at the end of this unprepared period of inquiry, and he would try to deal with it. A senator takes up the work force that is already being carried out. He was not put on this particular interest. He is a active group that oversees the interest of the elderly, and my mind was able to refer the case to that group because it was shown in the Senate arrangement. I think that's what we're talking about. Then a senator could just sit in that group or we could have a conversation about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u17	A respectable president. During the days, there was a shift in the number of generations between the possession of the seafood company, Samherja. It has been reported in the media that the largest Samherja's owners, the Þorsteinn Baldursson and Kristján Vilhelmsson, have decided that their children will possess their stocks in the Samherja Hf. The assessment of the hour of this business is dated May 23 of the year. is shown by permission of the President: ▪ Behind these stocks are possessions, such as property, ships, and most important sources, salutations, Samheries, and share in the stocks of other plants, such as Cold Processing, and as a result, the salutations of other outputs. Understandably, this development has amazed society, especially because of the relative value of this attributed transfer between generations. Much is still unknown about the nature of these trades and the payment of this inheritance, as has been said. Likewise, because the investigation of the alleged bribes of Samherja in Namiba continues to produce suspicion. A respectable president. November 19th. U.S. Marshal's government was introduced. Prime Minister action to increase confidence in Icelandic employment. The announcement was followed by the Regarding the aforementioned bribe pay made by the Samhers to members of Namibia and possibly beyond. That's where we even came from. up to the point of increasing transparency in the management of larger unscheduled enterprises and to consider the possibility of increasing the demand for translucency to larger marine companies. So I want to ask the highest. The prime minister where that work is, whether it is a cause for hurrying it up in the light of this huge property supply and its transparency. Well, then I'm not asking about a bill at the top. The secretary of travel who is already on the committee, I am asking about the bill announced in this government strategy for coming in addition to that bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u18	Mr. President. The bill presented by tourism, industrial and innovation ministers and is expected to be discussed in the course of the year. The employment committee or the Economic and Business Committee, I don't know it, is about the more information related to the proportion of large enterprises that can have a major system effect in Icelandic employment. The bill was announced in the campaign presented in November. Then, there were other measures, especially on top of the highest level. Marine and agricultural ministers, which have been included in the suggestions for improving the monitoring of the fish resources and other things. Seafood companies fell under that bill as high as possible. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers submitted, and as was rightly said. Is the case being announced at the fall council, i.e. The main bill of the marine road and agricultural minister for improved monitoring the fish-fishing resource, if any. A senator is referring to this. So I think that's why. A senator needs to explain it better because on the other hand, this bill is from the already published travel, industrial, and innovation minister, and the highest bill. A seafaring and agricultural minister announced in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u19	A respectable president. I refer to an announcement from the government on November 19, 2018, where it was stated that this work was in addition to the proposed bill for the travel, industrial and innovation ministers's Constitution on changing the annual bill to ensure information supply in accounts, etc. I understood that there was another bill on the way that would take a special interest in construction companies and more companies and in a slightly larger way than maybe there's a misunderstanding with me, I just read from the government's announcement. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Prime Minister for the 4th period of the Government Action Programme, which aims to complete a review of the definition of related marine routes for years, such as the highest level. The minister referred to it. However, this bill does not address the size of a problem with the authority of linked parties in the marine market over the labor share points, but it focuses on the share ratio that one company can have in another without being considered to be linked to a member. [[The president calls.]] A team of 49.9% shares in the Filter Processing process, yet they do not seem to be connected. That is not to turn it into this motion from a sea chief. [[The president calls.]] Does the prime minister feel normal that the proportion of property could be this high without anyone being linked to a person?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u20	Mr. President. I think it's important that everything is clear. V.E.G. A marine and agricultural minister announced that he would provide only a national bill but then disappeared because a committee that has been working to improve the monitoring of the fish resources will not be returned until May and this has been delayed. for the pandemic and for the rest. Then a minister proclaimed that he would bring one bill, not two in the fall, just to make it clear. Then there is the bill for travel, industrial, and innovation ministers, as a matter of course. A senator mentioned, originally supposed to be narrower and primarily to receive indications to form from the International Cash Fund, which was presented with a more extensive set of values than previously proclaimed. I hope this is absolutely clear for what's happened. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u21	Mr. President. On this occasion, I want to direct an inquiry to the highest level. Environment Minister on the use of wind power. The Agency has now proposed 43 initiatives to consider the work of project management on a Framework Programme. 34 of them are dealing with wind, i.e. Windyards that are spreading wide and wide throughout the country Yesterday, in the news of Halt 2 last night, there was an interview with a tenant's lawyer outside of Camp Valley. The position of the attorney could not be understood as different, so he felt that the cause of windpower in the perfect smoke, or as it was said in the story, could be understood by President: 'It's empty nonsense, as it is done today. It came to the view that the Environment Ministry considers the use of wind energy to be in accordance with the framework laws and was described letters between parties. The attorney considers the Environment Ministry to be a problem in this regard, and considers the certainty of the trial, which, in fact, may be the case. The regulations of the Constitution of ownership and of the legal rights of the work, the planning of rural society and equality, are resolved to make a contribution to the State on this basis. I'd like to ask the highest question on this occasion. Minister of three questions, although the answer to the first question is such as a little bit of the phrase on the subject that the Environment Ministry described its position that wind energy's issues fall under the framework schedule. First, what's the highest attitude. A minister to see if the use of wind energy should depend on the laws on the framework? Second, do Ministers believe that local environmental assessment and planning laws have enough control over these projects? And third: If a minister thinks he is lacking in order, can a minister's card be expected to be played on a change, and in what will these changes be?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u22	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The Environment and Resource Ministry assessment, as well as the Ministry of Employment and Development, is that the issues of wind energy are under a framework of the strategy, i.e. anything over 10 MWs. The first time these energy efficiency options were taken in a frame plan was when the project control of phase 3 dealt with two benefits, either with a wind power plant, and on the other side of the sea above Borfell, so it is fully in our mind that it is under there. About what question? The senator's assessment of environmental impact, and good if he didn't mention one more law, is sufficient to deal with this, we have agreed that large energy resources, which are present at one time in the community, should proceed with a frame plan, and I believe it is important that we continue on that path. This does not mean, however, that different methods may be suitable for different energy efficiency. It may be better to go one way when it comes to wind than to others when it comes to water, i.e. when evaluating the type of item to be grouped into areas to be protected and used. In that eye, we're looking at ways in the Ministry, and we've been working with the Department of Employment and Development and the Department of Transport, whether or not we should look for further implementation when it comes to the wind. I can get into this in the second answer if it does. A senator is interested in hearing more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Although it is a short time in the second round, it would be interesting to hear further about the minister's speculations about the use of wind power. But just so I made a good deal of it, the Minister's viewpoint is, in fact, that projects over 10 MW go under the frame of the program, but projects under 10 MWs are out there. Then, if time works, it would be interesting to hear the highest position. Ministers to wind mills and to use wind energy in a broad way. What's your position? Ministers to these so - called windmills? Does the minister take good care of this as a means of future energy, or does he have doubts that there is a reasonable way?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u24	V.E.G. President. What is being considered now between the three advisers mentioned is whether it is possible to look to the use of wind - energy ideas in a way that allows us to examine the country as a whole where these benefits are and where they are not, to roughen it in that way, and when we know where they are not relevant from some particular reference point of view - it could be a peaceful region, sensitive bird zone, etc. - then we have actually limited the area where it could be used, and then there would be a specific treatment for the areas where it can be used, and there is something we are now considering between the advisers. I think we need to be careful in the wind just like that, i.e. let's take it from the elements and nature protection factors so that we can remain here for the land we're telling us to be suitable for tourism, but of course, it's something we're supposed to consider as well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u25	A respectable president. I hope that other government advisers will not be hurt if I declare it here to represent the grand jury. Environment Ministers may be the most important thing in these times as well as in others because they focus on mankind's future estate, no less or less. In the last few weeks, we've seen what the cohesive powers are coming up, both within the country and between, in the fight with the Covid virus. This can fill us with the hope that we can cross borders to win the battle too. The minister had only been in office for nearly a year when he proposed a climate action plan, rather raw, but as he said at that time, the idea was to set out something that could be carried out when, in time, it would be added later. The program refers to her being reviewed as early as 2019 C.E. A year ago, it was said that a new plan would be submitted later in the year. Last December. told the prime minister that a new up - to - date plan would be due after a year's arrival. In March. was said to be a program for publication in May, and the news reports for the weekend speak of early summerism. I'd like to ask the minister if he could mention a date that we can start thinking about, we who look forward to the most, and then because the plan was sent to a strip in March, and a bit much has changed since then, whether or not it is certain that the subtracts that went into the loop two or three months ago have not been reversed a bit more readily in view of the changes that have occurred to ensure that we ask for Covid to be green, whether it should not be safe to use the opportunity and speed of all possible action. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u26	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. At least the minister mentioned here is not offended by what he said at the outset. I agree that this group of languages is extremely important. Mankind's future setting was wording as it is. A senator used it, and I think it's only right. I would also like to agree fervently with what is happening. A senator when he speaks of the cohesive power that came here in the Covid epidemic and we are still experiencing. This is certainly the thinking that we need to take along with us in the future on climate events. I enjoyed listening to what I heard. A senator will take the timetable and say, in the beginning, that it is after a year's convention, that summer has not yet come. But I can say we're going to get this out next month and I think it'll be perfectly safe. That's a huge deal of what you're talking about, especially because you've been under attack to calculate the exact number of actions given, at least where it can be done. In March this began to be examined, and we are processing those comments. Of course, it will affect the conclusion that comes from that criticism. I think there will always be some question that will be related to the changes that are going to occur right now because of the Covid epidemic. It will be difficult to get the full impact of the overall plan, simply because there are very much uncertainty about Covid about various economic factors as we know them. I'll get to something better. A senator asked about in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u27	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer, and I look forward to June. With regard to plans, it is very positive to have outside specialists analyze the plan, but I would like to ask the minister if it was not considered to be of more interest to the parties to do that work than to the foreign advisers who were invited to attend to the amount of money that is under outlets. I'm assuming the Minister knows better than most people how much valet is in this country by people, graduated from environmental and resource studies, e.g., which could do this job. Then on the contrary, all activities of the interview will be in the interest of climate and other activities. Secretary of finance speaks of using the situation for the future and building Iceland for up 2.0. Is it not certain that environmental and resource ministers are involved in this strategy with the Minister? By the way, if it's not green, there's no point in building up Iceland 2.0.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u28	V.E.G. President. If I just keep going with it as fast as possible. In the first and second round, a member of the council was determined to obtain an external review, from abroad, in order to learn better from those who are familiar with and who have had access to and experience in considering these matters in many foreign lands. I'd like to then point out that a climate Council is also a member of the country that covers this schedule, and we're also working on their comments. Then I want to agree with what. A senator's importance is that in what we can reach and call restoration, the values behind are highly esteemed when we talk about the future of the earth and that we try to put them into as many of the measures that will be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u29	Mr. President. Times can be dangerous for us Icelanders as well as for other nations. We have lived in peace despite the wars and sacrifices of most countries. Today, however, things that are next to him can be blind. That's danger. We can see this well in the viral epidemic that moved into this country fast and definitely from the mainland without our ability to build. We all know the consequences, health and economic consequences. Compared with other nations, we can enjoy much, but we do not know whether the epidemic will do anything else. This includes the uncertainty that we may face if it becomes possible with skilled staff, facilities, equipment, protective clothing, etc. But there is uncertainty in other areas. The defenses have become more unpredictable than ever since the Cold War ended. Defense issues are greater than and in every part of the world. It is our duty to face this uncertainty. We need to ensure that in the country we have a defense, equipment, ability and expertise to meet the challenges Iceland faces in security and protection and to meet Iceland's international commitments, as stated in national security policies for Iceland which were an important step taken four years ago by the General of the Council to set the standard national security policy, in which fundamental factors are involved in the NATO and the United States of America. This is one of the basic leaders of the nation's independence and sovereignty. Iceland, a military country, depends on the peacefulness of the international community. I've said this before that Iceland is supposed to be involved in international peace. There we have a ruined opportunity, but at the same time we must be realistic and sensible when it comes to ourselves. History teaches us that everything in the world is fleeting. Russian military exercises at national borders in Ukraine ended in war, and a member of the Crimea, despite the fact that the best known ones considered invasion to be less likely. Russia thus changed the border to its own satisfaction. The matter added tension between the East and the West and has caused great anxiety to the Tyrian nations. The case also had an economic impact on the land as we know it when we stood with our alliances. The Russian military exercises are generally far higher than the NATO states, the North Atlantic there is no exception. There, the military structure is growing in spite of Arctic hopes that Arctic tracks will not be the site of a new arms race and an increase in military structure. Russia's northern policy is revealed in a greater military structure, an increase in submarines, and the restoration of military bases. Iceland's location has reached its first importance in security. This has happened whether we like it better or worse. The Russians'plans are very important to us. The National Guard conducts a national monitoring program and runs the Icelandic air defense system. We are responsible to observe what is going on around us in cooperation with other countries and to share that information with our allies in Europe and the United States. The cooperation of NATO has increased in the North Atlantic. That's why we can't score. We are dependent on the defense of other nations. The government's government contract clearly requires that we work according to national security policy. Part of it is involved in NATO. Mr. President. The reason for this special discussion is the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has proposed, in April last in the Minister's Committee on State Money, in connection with funding, building for the Atlantic Community, NATO, in Helga, Southnes. The matter cannot be understood by any other route than that this minister has done it to better ensure Iceland's position in the surveillance and protection of the North Atlantic. Furthermore, the proposal has not been successful. This raises compelling questions, especially if the government is abandoning its national security policy to enforce it. It has to be answered. The question must be answered as to why a foreign minister's proposal was dropped. The following I've prepared for the highest. Minister: The secretary recognizes the defensive projects on Southnes that were discussed at the Minister's Committee on State Money, but the decision was not made to attack. How do these projects relate to the Atlantic Community and its defense agreements with the United States and national security policy for Iceland? What is the scope of the project, construction time, total cost, and cost of change? What's the estimated number of employees at the project time? How will construction become new, and how many jobs are permanently linked? Also, I would like a minister to report to the General on whether the initiative was from NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u30	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion, Þórarinsson's son's offer was taken up. I'm glad to have a place to say. A senator and another man. Parliaments on these important matters are the protection and security of the country. In view of the economic consequences of a pandemic, my proposal for effort is given. On March 19, 2020, proposals were sent to the Ministry of finance, which suggested that the Icelandic government contribute to 250 million. K. every year in the course of 2021/025 plus 125 million. K. This year, a total of 1,450 million. K., to reform at the harbor in Helguvík. However, I suggested that we make room for the safety area in Keflavík quickly arrived. That would have meant 330 billion. K. but the total amount would have been unchanged. Most nations, including the states of the Atlantic Community, spend large sums each year on defense. The maintenance and renewal of defense equipment costs, not to mention investment in new technologies. Me and the Icelanders are different from most other countries in the world, without a nation. We can allow ourselves to be an uncaring nation because we have the protection of the Convention of the Atlantic Alliance and the Defense Treaty with the United States. These are our two main national security services, as General's resolution on national security policy from 2016 involves. A respectable president. A defense deal with the United States is not a declaration of will. It involves the commitment of the most powerful military force ever to spend Iceland. It will not be done in writing. In order to carry out the agreement, certain criteria must be in place, certain equipment and adequate construction to implement military protection in the event of a test. When a crisis occurs, it is too late to consider maintenance and restoration. Today, the security area at Keflavík Airport is in progress or planned at a level of security at a total of 1,31.74 billion dollars. This is the greatest investment in national defenses and security in this century. The need for maintenance and restoration is very large. This project will produce over 300 years of work in this country. They even hide. in which the systems of the Icelandic air defense system are renewed, updates on radar and communications stations, maintenance of the landing system, repair and repair of aircraft vessels and shelters, and construction of washing stations. These projects do not involve any denatual change of available resources or activities that are involved in the Atlantic Community and the United States defence agreement. The Icelandic government has not formally opened up discussions with the U.S. government or the Atlantic Community on other projects than the one reported. On the other hand, it is clear that many constructions in the safety area have not been maintained for decades. If they are to be used by an alliance that regularly comes to this country or in times of danger, repairs are needed. It is the evaluation of the government responsible for the country's defences that such projects have now become timely. A respectable president. No nation can resist when it comes to defense and security. After an unsurpassed entrance to Russia on the Ukraine in 2014, there has been a change of mind among our neighboring and alliance. I mention, for example, the increasingly extensive participation of Sweden and find in the work of the Atlantic Community. Both nations are outside the alliance, but few nations within it are more effective when it comes to consultation and mutual exercise. They are involved in a rapidly growing Norwegian cooperation in defense. It's not a coincidence. The fears we face are real, and our solidarity is not only the protection but also the power of power. A powerful defense effort is thus more likely than a weak one to maintain peace. A respectable president. The provisions given did not include increasing body volume or new role, much less regular presence by foreign forces. They are all in agreement with national security policies requiring that the country is in possession of the stronghold to meet the challenges Iceland faces on security and protection and to meet Iceland's international commitments. The safety of Iceland as an armyless nation cannot be guaranteed except by active involvement in the Atlantic Alliance and the National Defense Convention. It's a guide that I've raised further projects with the security area at the Cheflavour Airport, including Helguvík. A cumulative need for maintenance and reform is high, and now is the time to take on such projects in my opinion, since most of these projects are expected to be funded by our allies. Icelanders cannot expect an alliance to fulfill its commitment if we do not guarantee minimum reserves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u31	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for discussing this discussion, although I have, in fact, asked myself, " Is it timely? ' Of course, there has been no formal request from NATO or our fellow workers for these projects that have been most discussed here. But there is good reason to discuss the current span. V.E.G. The minister says here and confirms that there is no formal request, and this will directly appear to be the crusade of the individual members of the Independence Party in this district, which seems to be taking advantage of a tragic economic situation following the Covid's call on knights. I'll ask them if it's the best thing to do. A minister only calms down the Senate so that the gas pump will not lead to unrealistic expectations of people who are experiencing extreme difficulties in this area. There is a need for intervention, but perhaps in a practical way. I was disappointed at the highest. One minister said that this is the time to force it to build up the area. Then I remind you that following the visit of the vice president of the United States, a minister, at the time of his visit, asserted that it should not mix the defense and military structure with business. It's just a poisonous mix, and it's not worthy of the respect of a country. However, there is a great need to blow up the sector and increase the variety of jobs. [[The president calls.]] But let's do this on our own terms until it comes to a formal petition from NATO, and then we'll discuss it on our own.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u32	Mr. President. Enlargement of the Sacred Harbor as proposed is thought to be military building and may be useful to national or foreign imports and imports, especially to the world around us. Of course, if such an idea is to be discussed and taken any further, it requires a new decision now taken on defense and security issues and the opinion of the National Security Council. One of the Ministers of State Money is not to be paid off. Mr. President. There's been an increase in tension in the north, we admit it. Russia is on the rise in building ups and activities, NATO and the United States are responding. These are the dangerous ping-pong effects. Iceland has contributed to cooperation and tension in the Arctic Council, the Northern Parliamentary Conference, and in the Norwegian dimension, and we are to maintain that course and to provide more slowly the enlargement of Helga on a community basis for traditional navigation than what is considered here. In other words, we need to experience a decrease in tension rather than an increase in tension. It is in the interest of the northern community, not the military authorities, in the countries that are known. I'd like to remind you that it's time for the Council to deal with significant changes, projects and the likes of military action on NATO's behalf, such as the keeping of books, additions to the defence agreement, and so on. That's what it's all about. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son Proppér is in charge of the council. VG has also proposed a Senate on Iceland's national peace statements for nuclear weapons and nuclear-powered vehicles, as well as on the United Nations Convention on Nuclear Prohibition, the ICAN Convention, and it's long time. Mr. President. It is not the weapons that are now best for earth's inhabitants but for the most people to enjoy peaceful living together and international cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u33	Mr. President. I really find this discussion to be about two things that might be useful to keep separate, but it's possible that trying to make a little sense of each other. On the one hand, this protection and security structure that has been going on and will undoubtedly continue to be around Smokejanes in connection with our involvement in NATO and the need for a job structure in Southnes. It's certainly a little dangerous to cross this thing too much together because it can arouse false hopes. This can cause people to expect some sort of renewal at the time of Chefavík's defense, and it can also distract them from a number of other things that might even be better to do. I'm not going to question the need to renew, e.g. Our radar systems and that we have good equipment to care for our national security interests. But I'm surprised they're not even new. potential cooperation with e.g. European U.S.A., where national security could be served and at the same time with other economic and community interests. There are also many corrupt opportunities for innovation and construction in Southnes, which might be normal for us to be talking about outside the national security context and then, for example. Things that turn to air transport and other things. In the foundation, the problem seems to be that whenever there is a national security issue, defense or military structure in Iceland, it is on the grounds of the United States. It is always the basis for what the United States needs in order to serve us safely. This is an easy thought error, since our national security has been in harmony with the United States for so long. But it was missing after the defenses left, and there is still need for national security to be dealt with on the grounds of how a country can be an armyless European democracy in one of the world's most important bifocal points. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u34	A respectable president. Let's get some things straight. We're in NATO, and we have a national security program. Iceland's foreign policy is clear and we want to continue to be members of the defense of NATO and other Western countries, as it has been. I don't think that's controversial. This is clear in our national security policy. Another is that in the case of defense and security, they should be discussed in the Iceland government of Iceland, in the National Security Council, here at the General Assembly and in the Foreign Affairs Committee. We know that no one snaps a finger to cover a lot of jobs, provides some billions of dollars from NATO because the situation is not good at this time. I agree with the people they've said today that I don't think it's tasteful and it's not right to mix it up. The one standing here and the advance team has always supported and been a member of Iceland's foreign policy, and there has been no change. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, I think, e.g. just taking this discussion to start with the National Security Council and taking the building up into the current risk assessment. I think it's unfair - and I intend to introduce it in the second speech today because it's a very short time to handle such an important matter - when certain members of the council go around accusing Southnes of taking an interest in the activities of Helgavík and in the territory of NATO. These are the maintenance of workers that need to be treated. There's no apathy to be found, I know, but local governments don't make decisions in Iceland's foreign and defenses. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u35	A respectable president. I was prepared with other points, but I am glad that here is a very clear case for the members of the council in Iceland's very clear policy over the years that was founded at the Atlantic Community in 1949 and on the other hand, to protect us from taking certain steps regarding how we protect ourselves from security and protection. It's through the National Security Council, and I've previously said that I find it very strange that this case was not sent there, to the State Department, or brought it into the council. The other is that we are not playing around mixing economic interests, economic interests, and then the security issues. It's never been done. There's evidence of that now. If there's something that I think is following this discussion about the possibility and possibly further structure in Helga, there's two major successes in the government and the administrative system, one way or another, is to make our international defence and security policy, which has been quite clear over the years. She's a valer on her feet than before. Then there's the other, sending out a very uncertain, inexplicable message to the Southnes. I don't think anyone's making fun of that. I simply stepped out to the highest. The minister of state would have brought the matter into the Minister's Committee on State Money on the basis of national interests and protection. It is now seen that it was not. I've asked before if they will use themselves, whether within the Independence Party or in the Front Party, for the fact that this matter will enter the National Security Council on the grounds that it is important to present the matter on the basis of security. [[The president calls.]] The security benefits have become much larger and larger than they were in 1949. We're talking even. around the north, the environmental factors there, monitoring, research, etc. There is a new thought in defense and security, and we must take full part in it on the basis of our cooperation, and that is, in fact, our cooperation. On the basis of NATO. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u36	A respectable president. We're discussing defense issues in the South. I don't know if it's normal in many ways, but there's something we'd like to do in defense because we're in NATO, we're in defense and we're supposed to do it that way. Either we're supposed to be on or off. It's ridiculous if we start to look at this from the point of view that we're going to detract from the construction and other things. Now, we have a situation where we can begin to repair and improve. We know the experience of the situation today in the old military zone. The school is there, full of work, and facilities. We wouldn't want to be without it, and that's why I'm saying, for the first part, that we're supposed to clean up and say yes to all the structure that can be obtained into this sort of thing. I'm pretty sure if you have to build something up, for example. at the harbor in Helgavik, and that area, we should just work on it and do it. We must show respect for those who are with us in the Atlantic Union that we are there to do things, not just to be with and do nothing. It's very strange to think that maybe we're part of the military alliance, but somehow we're gonna put our heads in the sand and pretend we're not in the military. Either we're in there or we're out there, and we're just supposed to be decent. I have a lot of respect for the people who are with us that we're talking straight out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u37	A respectable president. I must admit that the discussion of further building in Helga, a source of NATO, helped me to see it in the media. It sounded as if the construction project of NATO was not being done in that area. It's like the highest. A minister's progress in history is further up - to - date; there is being done before 13 in the area of defense in the years to come. Reservation and restoration, it's what the Minister calls it, but it looks like someone else. It's, for example. ...discriminate about what the whales of the west call a box, which we would expect to translate as a military base in a box. It's setting up all the infrastructures needed to arrive at a station of 1,000 soldiers without warning, if necessary. This is much more than merely reforming the past. They're creating a new konsept up at Keflavík Field. However, there is no warship on Smokeynes. There is no battleship in Helguvík, so I don't see how its structure would be classified as maintenance and reform, no matter how rich we want to stretch and pull all the definitions of that word. A respectable president. What this case may reflect is how much secrecy is causing suspicion. Because there is more secrecy and covert than around the defenses, it's only a little normal for us to doubt when we hear unformed ideas of building up in the interest of defense that can't be seen at the end. That is why when I saw at the Minister's Constitution on the reevaluation of the border of Mount Gunnólfjords, which might be a good thing to get the Minister to come on a little bit, because that's where we're back with the NaTO operation on land. Homeside ideas for building large ports in Finnafjord, there in the backyard - the highest. The president is more familiar than the one listed here, but could this be some way back in order to get into the deep pocket of military authority to subsidize a major ship in Finnafjordur? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u38	Mr. President. In what context should we discuss this matter? Since the 1930's, Southnes have repeatedly gone through difficult employment conditions. We are engaged in a defensive union in the Atlantic Community. We've been in this together for 70 years. Should we discuss this matter according to who is going to go into these projects, our fellow workers in NATO, or should we discuss it from the process, e.g. In a major shipship in Helguvík, do you have an important injection into the abandoned Southnes job life as well as major improvements to the harbor? It is known that in April the case was discussed in the Minister's Committee on State Money, at the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs introduced ideas about further projects that our alliances in NATO may be ready to go on the Southnes, including the U.S. Seafronts in Helgavík and other major projects We've heard numbers of 1,2508 billion. High-level community service party. The government minister seems to have settled the case that carried out military construction and thus seems to have set foot at the top of its doors. Secretary of state so that he didn't reach land or coast. It's normal to ask the highest. The minister of foreign affairs why his ideas on building on the Southnes have exactly fallen away. It also seems unclear whether and in what form of the case the government's board and how formally these ideas were and projections. You should believe that this was just vague ideas at the highest level. Minister? The Generals and the Southnes have a requirement for the matter to be fully informed. The question also needs to be said why the situation has not been considered to be a reason for national security. There are, however, two members of the southern district. V.E.G. A minister has to explain why this case is established by the government or is to believe, Mr. President, that here is determined to be the Cold War of a predominantly Catholic team. Secretary of State, that the finest government leader is still on his way to Cheflavík? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u39	A respectable president. To extend and strengthen the port of Helgavík is not an increase in military activities. Building new and large warehouses up at the Cheflavour airport instead of old and ill - gone, resulting in a collapse does not involve increasing military activity. Hv. The chairman of the United States said earlier that no request had come to be made to those things, including those. which I mentioned here, as if we could never and never take the initiative to do anything without a request from the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u40	NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u41	- America or NATO, because it's two-sided or three-sided cooperation. So should we never take the initiative in our own defenses and insides but always wait for some request from the world? What kind of convenience is that? Everyone realizes that NATO does not own defences and will never depend on the level of employment in Southnes. NATO's military activities do not depend on the leaking of roofs at Keflavík Airport. However, the timing of the necessary and planned implementation can easily be taken into account, e.g. ... inSandjanestown, today's unemployment is 28%. We may simply ask, and there is no myth to do so: Is it possible to immediately perform the maintenance and reform work planned over the next five years in the light of the circumstances here? A warship was named. We are obliged to perform the service of NATO's military ships here, too, according to the protective covenant. Don't you think it's nice that the service and the ships leave the downtown city of Reykjavík, where the mayor doesn't even want them to go to Helgúvík, a ship we need to serve under that symbol anyway? It is not myth to take into account that in this area of employment, 28% of unemployment is out of control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u42	Mr. President. Unidentified reports from members of the Independence Party that NATO wished to have a military building in Helga up to 6.5 billion years. Got on the edge of the dawn. During the subsequent discussion, there have been confusion; first, Smokejanestown's wish for the support of the so - called Helggar crew, second of all, how to combat a major unemployment problem in the Southnes and third, the role of the National Security Council. National Security Council will evaluate the state and prospects of safety and protection, contribute to objective and objective national security coverage, to promote information and work with risk references. V.E.G. The Minister of State has not so I know that I have requested a discussion on this matter in the National Security Council, but it seems necessary in this discussion that the conference needs to be reviewed and that if there are any, there will be evidence. It is certainly important to work against the unemployment of the Southnes and rural authorities have pointed to projects that can be addressed immediately, such as the double-Randjanes Way, changes in the clinic's housing, and construction at the high school. It is the projects that create employment and make good use of the people after that. To call for military building merely to fight unemployment is preposterous to me. There's more to come along. There have been many talk of Helguvík, and many politicians have promised money to her that never came. As he grew, Helgardur may serve larger ships and changes that will benefit from the search and survival of the north. As glaciers melt, changes in shipping routes, and increased Arctic traffic, there is an increased risk of serious accidents. The cooperation with other nations on projects that are useful in the search and survival of the northern regions is well worth looking at, and Hades has a place in the vicinity of the international airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u43	Mr. President. We are here in a special discussion that truly is a very special, discussions about something that has hardly been formally discussed except in the pages of the Morning newspaper and in informal conversation and ideas of the council and the minister of foreign affairs. However, security and defense are not issues to be kept in the flash or waved in the face of desperate people who have either lost their livelihood or until they see it coming. It is not a beautiful game to the people of Southnes who deserve better than that they are offered the insurmountable and unorthodox ideas for the economic structure of the region following the Covid-19, ideas that will disappear on further development of military workers in Helguvík. Security and protection and any ideas of growing military activity in Iceland in the form of more buildings or the presence of soldiers will only be realized by formal and democratic consultation at the General Assembly. This is well known by members of Parliament, even as members of the Parliament know the course of Iceland's North Sea policy, which is also known. working against all kinds of military efforts in the north. Ideas of the further construction of military workers in Helgavík are therefore very conflicting with its emphasis. All ideas on further development of military manification in Southnes are against Iceland's priorities in the Presidency of the Arctic Council as well as against the main purpose of the Council of North Pole, which was established in order to promote sustainable development and peaceful cooperation in the region. One of the main focus of the left - to - left movement of green bids in foreign affairs is clear; the emphasis on peaceful solutions and the opposite of all of Iceland's involvement in military alliances, military activities, or the building of military workers is clear. I'd like to remind you of that as the highest. The prime minister has repeatedly pointed out and yielded, that the same economic and military structure should not be mixed. That's where I agree with her. Mr. President. Now we're trying really hard to get on the Covid-19 structure and it's about how we're talking. There is no solution, even greater structure for military workers, but nothing is the answer to innovation, environmental and sustainable solutions to employment and a wide range of opportunities for most, women and men, young and old. [[The president calls.]] As soon as I understand that the Southnes try to find solutions to the economic problems they face and support them fully in this, I encourage and encourage them to support every form of sustainable and multiplicity in their own economic activities, such as suggestions from the highest degree. District Minister testifys. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I encourage them to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u44	Mr. President. Southern national security and economic interests work together in several ways. A national security issue is having powerful schools all over the country. It is a national security matter to have a sledgehammer and ports. It is national security to have a powerful hospital. It is a national security issue to have independent and secure data in our modern world, and it is a national security factor to have a powerful manufacturing industry. The fact is, the challenges we face in the South are reflected in the biggest threats facing us as a nation. Whether it is Keilir or FS, Southnesja's National Institute of Health, Cheflavory Airport, Sacred Harbor, Data Plants, or the tens of thousands of people who could be building a powerful manufacturing and export industry, this will always take place in the same place. Iceland's governments, for many decades now, have failed to ensure that enough is needed to make us safe country. We are not uncertain in the sense of being vulnerable to Russian or Chinese or United States or to any other person. We have established a security there in the form of NATO and much more security there in the form of our international cooperation, e.g. to the European Union. We feel insecure in the wider sense of not having much tolerance for a financial recession or that money is not the right thing to do in health or education. Something remarkable is not written insecurity at the highest level. Secretary of State, and I think it's a little awkward that he's given the answer. Mr. President. When will we be able to deviate from these absurd patent solutions by members of the Independence Party, which will never work and instead begin to create some kind of genuine social and economic security for the inhabitants of the country? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u45	A respectable president. It's a bit of a special debate today, as I expected it to be. Here are some things that come out very strange. For one thing, it has been repeated that this issue is not about any further military structure or structure on the Southnes. It has been explained that it is the maintenance of defense workers. We need a good port that can receive warships, as well as for, e.g. The Marine Corps and other civilian uses. We have a good port in Helguík, where we are near the international airport, so it is only natural for governments to look forward to improving the situation in Helgavík. Of course, the media supports that structure. I think the wording is a little strange. One is that I listened to the highest. Ministers of the past, and he was well aware that the currently active projects are up to billions, as well as the projects that are now in the final eviction process have been presented in the government of 2017 and 2018. Some people say it all went very secretly, but it's not. I reiterate that I actually agree that we fill up our contracts and stand in the defense business, but I find the unsatisfactory methodology in the case of individual council members and how the rural governments have been attacked in Southnes and accused of lack of interest. I don't like it when it comes to it. Councilmen point out that the Southern government can look to the other eight in a job structure. It's what a community government does. I feel like I'm talking down to people, and I don't like them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u46	Mr. President. I'm not particularly going to talk about defenses in my bad guys, but maybe a little bit of work and a possible wildcat. I'm not even going to talk about a definition of what defense or military building is. This is very clear and does not depend on personal and political views, much less on some temporary opportunism. It is simply in what direction such matters should come to us, and it does not diminish my understanding and sympathy for the people who live in the professional situation in Southnes today that I maintain that the future situation and future development in this series of issues, defenses, in this country beat it. We need to be careful, and we don't jump because governments drop from their camps, from their flocks, some cats who race for international opportunities. This is simply not the time point. We have made a decision, these eight members of Congress here, as different as they are, to be together for the past few weeks on a matter of great importance. I think every group has backed up with a point that we've agreed on the big movie. It is very sad if we are in a position to break down now and it is very special if it comes from a government class. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] There's a story to the next town. I think it's important that we keep this separate, that we stick here and help the Southnes in the problems they're facing right now with Covid, and hopefully they're temporary. Greater discussions, military structure, and national security in Iceland are simply more frequent than a change to the temporary opportunism of the administrations. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u47	A respectable president. I think we've come to the conclusion that we're talking about a special subject, a very special discussion in a very special and odd way. The conclusion is that I think we're talking about all this stuff on the wrong ground and should be talking about simple matters, 28% unemployment in Southnes, and what to do. If it's up to water the harbor and make a bigger port, we'll just do it. If there's improvement and a job to fix some house on the field, we'll do it. Yet, there is much more to be done. We also need to consider how we are going to tackle it when tourists return. What are we going to do? How are we going to open up the airport? Are we going to run expensive tests on every tourist? That's the solution we need to find. This is what we need to do. That's what we're supposed to talk about. We should be talking about 28% unemployment in the South as well as how we're going to solve it. On the other hand, while we're in the middle of Covid, we're talking about some really weird shit. What are we fighting there? We are at war with a virus we do not see and do not know about, but at the same time we are concerned about some military structure. I say for my part that I think we're totally on the wrong path. We are to focus on what we will do in today's situation and how we will solve it. If we cannot concentrate on this, it will not change whether a warship will reach Hades or not. True, during the wartime, we had a warship in Hahlfir. I think we wouldn't have wanted to be without it. We need to resolve the situation today, the unemployment on the Southnes. It's very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u48	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the discussion. I agree with that with the highest. Ministers that no nation can afford to be immune to safety or defense. A minister noted that the projects we have discussed, including the project. In Helgarík, the need is cumulative and is fully consistent with national security policy. It's very important to get this out here from the top. Minister. However, it remains, however, why the ultimate proposal is proposed. When a minister is fully in harmony with national security policy, the government has committed itself to enforce it. Inconsistencies within the government have been possible, and apparently I think, halting these projects and the necessary security structure and maintenance of defense activities necessary to attack. If national security is not supported, it is a very serious matter. I thank the members of the council who participated in this discussion. A lot of good things came out in her. I don't agree with everybody. The greatest attention came to my case of president of the United States, Logi Einarsson. It is evident that the Conspiracy does not look to our commitments or the importance of the defense work if it is understood to be a clear change of direction on the side of the United States. V.E.G. Minister now has the responsibility to follow Iceland's national security policy of determination and confidence in its defenses and to create important work during difficult times in the South. I appreciate the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u49	A respectable president. This has been a very special discussion. She tells us one thing, that these matters need to be discussed better, that's the situation. The way humans walk is by such contrast. What are some references when they say that business and defence do not mix? I think everyone agrees with that in the prince's hand, but should we review the kind of defense we use here? Who do you think built the runways at Keflavour Airport? What about the radar system? What about fiber optics? What about the harbor in Helguvík? I don't know much about answers when I look over Congress. [[The point is, would you like an answer?]] It's all new for a civil purpose, and it's always been. Of course, when we're working on another tens of billions of dollars, it's better that we are doing it now than we have done that two years ago. We live in the human world. Everyone knows, Mr President, it doesn't have to be an expert, that if you don't maintain workers for decades, you will have to maintain them. When people put it or discuss it, whether there are any in the South or in the council hall, trying to make it suspicious, it doesn't resist any opinion, let alone the surreal conspiracy theories on the Kefjordur. A respectable president. It has been established according to national security policy. It will continue. I will take even more initiative in discussing these matters, since it is needed, whether in national security or elsewhere. It is absolutely impossible, most respectable president, after this discussion, to try to correct in two minutes all the misinformation observed, to be sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u50	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 38/2018, with long - term supportive care for disabled persons. The law states that partnerships, private institutions, and other services and operators who intend to perform services as per law on services to disabled persons with long-term needs should provide the permission of the Ministry. Under the law, the Ministry is required to force the reviews of the user council in the local community where the operation is conducted before the permit is granted. The concept of user advice is not defined in the laws on service to disabled persons with long - term needs but in Article 8. law on local social services suggests that rural society should employ special user advice ensuring the access of user stakeholders to policy-making and community planning on health issues involving disabled persons. The obligation of the procedure is to obtain information from the user council that results in a great delay in publishing the job permit, including because some rural communities have found it difficult to appoint user councils. They have made comments to the system where the user council does not always have the basis to evaluate candidates, especially when a disabled person is applying for a work permit to be his or her own personal contract for personal assistance, i.e. NPA. The great delay that has been made in publishing work because of this arrangement is primarily affecting the users of the ministry. If a job permit is not allowed, it may be possible that the provision of services will be limited by the related difficulties for users of the service and those who are willing to perform services. Code 7. The law includes the irreprehensible obligation of the Ministry to seek the direction of a user council where the operation is carried out, regardless of whether there is a legal attorney who is involved in services to a disabled person or a disabled person who chooses to care for his own NPA contract. This obligation has caused some problems, and in some cases it has been impossible to grant leaves. A respectable president. This bill suggests that in all cases when applying for a work permit on the basis of Article 7. The law shall direct the secretary to consult with the staff of disabled persons in the Regulation. However, a minister should consult with disabled people's interest groups, the Union of Icelandic rural society and the collective body of paymen in the preparation of such regulations. Plans for making the bill were presented at the scene of a consultation committee on the affairs of disabled people arranged on the basis of 36rd. legalize the services of disabled persons with long - term needs of support. The plans were also presented to other advisers. In addition, further consultations have been made with stakeholders in the processing of the bill and its application. A respectable president. In view of the above, I stress that the bill will be agreed as soon as possible to benefit users and those who serve them. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u51	A respectable president. It's the best bill, but, sort of, I'd say, incomprehensible that it has to be done. It sums up the obstacles that always seem to arise in the affairs of disabled people, especially in the matter of personal - controlled users. I'm saying for my part: I can't reach the point where you need to put this user council in the Regulation. I'd say, and ask the highest. Minister if he doesn't agree with me, that this could be done so that either a user council would be consulted if there is, and otherwise just with the country society. Thus, we would have nothing more to do with the situation. If this is the only thing that stops the necessary service to those who need it, it's just very simple. I think it would be much better to have it in these laws, and then nothing would have to be too complicated. I would also like to ask a minister on the way: Is it not time to legalize the appendix and legalize the contract for disabled people, such as the United Nations Convention? Then, too, the State must do better in removing all these obstacles, allowing disabled persons to get their rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u52	A respectable president. Thank you for these tips or speculations and inquiries. I think it's important to have an active user scheme, and that's what I think everybody's stressed. We are to ensure the care of those who use the ministry, or of their interests, in such cases. As I traced history, it has been difficult, because of the way the law has become, to grant leave. You see, there is no requirement that it be placed in the user's rights. My position is that it's more suitable for a Regulation to remain in that room, and then we take steps to form rules on how it would be implemented. Perhaps that could be the case. A senator comes into this office was something that could be made up of in a court of law, but I agree that it's wise to do this. We are to keep this obligation within the scope of Regulation, but it is made up in what way it will be implemented. However, there may be other ways to cut off the knot that is formed there or these hardships that cause us to fail to qualify. I trust the committee would consider this in their work on the bill, perhaps actions that will achieve that goal. But this is at least the design that has been drawn up and introduced in collaboration with the disabled. I don't know that it was appreciated there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. This has only to do with the smallest societies. I think there's the biggest trouble in getting this user manual to work. I also often feel that even on such grounds, less communities will be used financially to reject this assistance. Meeting these requirements can become a bit of a backdrop, and it can be very difficult for them. If it were simply the law to consult the user counsel or the local community, they can't get out of the way and just have to deal with the situation and do something. I'm most afraid that if this is a regulation, they'll be able to make one more trip and it'll be miserable if it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u54	A respectable president. I think it's correct to conclude with the senator that this is a rather challenging situation in smaller rural areas but larger because the user council is active in the countryside. In some places, it has been difficult to get people to share in the work of this counsel, and that is no reason to refer to it. If there's a law enforcement authority in there, she's got to be properly implemented. Of course, we would not be performing this bill unless we want to cut this knot. We want to solve this problem. But what if it were possible for a particular subject to be considered in a judicial matter, then I'm sure the committee will consider it in their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u55	A respectable president. There is a trend in the so - called system, i.e. Governments, simplify things for themselves when problems arise that affect clients. I don't know of any group of cases that are more relevant than foreigners, where there is an ongoing fixation of some systematic problem affecting the interests of the clients but could be solved in a completely different way, it just doesn't want to be done by the authorities to solve them. Sad to say, a group of people who have had to get used to being divorced and not being listened to, is the slogan: none of us without us. There's a good reason for that slogan. This is because they are not very likely to listen to disabled people and their needs. And when things have to be fixed briefly, I mean, the authorities want to change things in some way that's ideal for the authorities. That's why I have to ask a few questions in the discussion mentioned on the bill. It is very briefly discussed that they were introduced at a meeting committee on the subjects of disabled persons. V.E.G. Minister said anything against another man. A senator said that he did not know better than he would be accepted there. But I have to ask you, did you come up with any comments? Any other suggestions? If we were to ask a consultation committee on the issues of disabled people or other disabled people's interests, would they support the suggestions? I'm asking because I don't think that's quite clear in the bill's report. I was hoping that it would be clear up in the speech of the Supreme Court. Minister, not aware of that. I also wondered, "Is my recommendation in Article 7. " The law, which is already clear enough. It says that it is to be given the direction of the interest groups of disabled people but not necessarily that the interests of disabled persons have more control over decisions than they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for such speculation. They are absolutely right because the user agreement is extremely important and respected, both effective and respected. I told them that the bill was introduced to a meeting committee on disabled people's affairs, where the seat of the exercise team, the ABI and the Union, so the bill was introduced there. No comment was made on the fact that the matter would be submitted, so as we use that approach, the bill has been considered to be employed in consultation with the relevant organisation. I believe, however, that it is extremely important, like what happened. A senator noted that this is not to be considered to give a discount on having consult with users in the service. It has not exactly been possible on the basis of the law because of the way they are spoken, i.e. If we follow the letter of the law, granting leaves in some rural communities for their services because the Council of Users has not been established. The Council of Users has concluded that they cannot provide envelopes to form when an individual wants to care for all NPA services for himself. Then the user counsel says, "We don't have information about this, but you're trying to get us to do things we don't have a chance to do or to do. " So the mind is not behind this bill that it was created in the system to avoid consultation with users. On the contrary. It is thought that the users will receive a service that has not been managed because there has been a greater lack of rules on how this discussion should be conducted and how to react when it is not possible to maintain the necessary consultation for the reasons mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u57	A respectable president. For one second, I cannot think of anyone trying to avoid consultation with disabled people. The problem is much better that it has been forgotten. Many groups that are left out are simply forgotten. It has such an enormous impact on the group when many institutions or members of the community forget them at the same time. I don't object to your bill. I think it's a logical step according to the criteria given in the bill itself. I cut it down just because I thought that the speaker gave me a reason for further questions, which I can only leave for the rest of my life. a welfare committee, which I expect to take over. But then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is possible to submit the relevant committee to the Regulation that comes from the bill. What I really feel is the question of how this is going to be handled, and especially when it comes to getting the attention of the disabled person's interests on the job of the committee in the treatment of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u58	A respectable president. I appreciate those tips. I don't think there should be any problem with developing such a directive to the Committee and you can work it out closely with the committee when it wins the case. The reason this bill is coming now, but not in the fall is. Because it has been difficult to permit work in certain rural areas, but also because we have a package of actions that was approved for special and enhanced services for these vulnerable groups this summer because of the Covid situation and the isolation that many have had to live in. It has already been observed that such services would be difficult to perform in all rural areas, i.e. increased services, on the basis of budget decided by the General Assembly, including Because we couldn't go through the Marketing Authorisation section for all our societies in the current situation. It would simply take too long, and summer would be over, fall, and even winter before it happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u59	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister was told about the current rights, the written laws, and the need to add one of the regulations. We live here under the regulations force. But I would like to point to one recorded rule, fundamental law, the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144, 1 mgr. 76. g., where it says clearly: ▪ Any who need it should be legally secured to aid in sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, poverty, and similar incidents. We have not followed this article. We're still struggling to beat down heads and obstacles in the community, and not enough of that, we dare put goodbyes on people who need MPA services. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Wouldn't it be easier to make them more comfortable with the legislation instead of the Regulation, instead of having another middleman? We know how it's been done with these great health insurance insurance of Iceland when people are in disposal and paperwork trying to get information to Iceland's Medical Insurance, to pick up the rights they've been committed to, though, by law. We're going to add another principle. I'm asking the highest. Ministers also: How many people really need the ministry, and what are really many who receive it? I'd like to hear the highest. The minister will tell us here. And further: Is it not a form of discrimination when we cannot do all the work? That's a total violation of equality, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these speculations and comments and questions. It speaks of the setting up yet more than one law, as if things are being complicated. We are required to perform a certain type of service. We've decided here that a certain service has been performed by law. Often it is independence or rural society or simply the individuals who are conducting their own service through the MPA. On the other hand, we cannot render that service to all our citizens, not just for financial gains, or that there have been any greetings or such things that the senator testifies to, but is not relevant in this bill. There are a number of people who do not receive services because the work permit for the provider cannot be approved. We've made a requirement for the work permit to go through the code of user agreements required in the law. Here we are relaxing in order to be able to render all services. To individuals living in rural areas where there is no way to order a user council, we will say: "Unless it is an absolutely utter requirement to consult with such a user council, we are going to form rules on how to do so in a regulation so that the one having the right to the service can obtain it. It is the core of this matter to make it easier to perform a service where these advises cannot be given or where they cannot work on specific criteria that I mentioned earlier. We will set clear rules on how we can render the ministry so that one who is entitled to it, the one who needs it, will receive the doubt when it comes to it. They're trying to do with this bill. If the senator has any other idea of how to do this, the minister is ready to listen to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u61	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Yeah, I got some ideas. I'd be the first and last to go with the current rights. I'd go first, and last time I'd go to 1. 76. g. The constitution, which is very clear when it comes to helping those who are in need of help in the community. V.E.G. A minister did not answer the number of those who endured and who did not receive the required service. I don't know exactly what we're talking about when it's the highest. Minister says we're trying to come here - and thank you very much. Minister for telling me what I'm reading on the bill. The fact is: Now we're adding some 200 million dollars, from me, to Reykjavík, so that she can try to keep at least the agreement she has been making to carry out this ministry. It's not just the little communities that get out of the way. They are also the ones who have been left behind, those who have not even been paid to do so but part of the agreement that the State has made regarding the ministry. I'm asking the highest. Again: Is it normal to discriminate people who need to enjoy the ministry by putting on a greeting system so that some will receive but others will not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u62	A respectable president. I think there's some misunderstanding here. We're not just talking about the NPA agreements. We are talking about all the services rendered to disabled persons, no matter what MPA services or other services. All this service must be carried out by applying for a certain license. We must not reject activities on the basis of a user agreement. What matters is that here we are trying, because the senator referred to the Constitution, making adjustments in order to better carry out the constitutions. So when it comes to MPA, we'll be working on a new law that we've been working on in consultation with our rural communities. In recent years, we have been able to increase the number of NAPA contracts and I hope we can continue on the same path. But there are some things in the law that have to be corrected and needed to be reformed, and I hope I can bring some changes in the next council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u63	Mr. President. I'll recommend a bill to legalize travel. The bill holds the government's authorization for the publishing of tourism, which is digital for the value of 5,000 dollars. to people 18 years of age and older who have an Icelandic social security number. The bill also stipulates conditions for the use of tourism, its duration, and the limitation of those who can accept their travel payment. It suggests that the government's single transitional operation, similar to those of opportunistic donors, is suggested to keep the travel out of law on income taxes. During the past few months, we have done little more than react to the economic effects of the Republic of Korea. As everyone in this room knows, the epidemic has had an enormously dramatic impact on the economy in this country as well as elsewhere, while tourism has in recent years become a basic work force and a key size in the Icelandic economy. Because of the global tourist markets, including the U.S. In Europe and North America, the main market area in Iceland at the scene of tourism, air travel to the country has virtually lay low, as well as the large extent of the ban on the opportunity of SMEs to serve the few people here. Thus, the passengers have been particularly uncomfortable with tourism companies in Iceland, but that is likely all that needs to be said in April. A 99.3% decrease was observed between years. Travelers are encouraged to travel within the country in some countries. The gift is presented to a game in the hope that the country will use the transport services more easily and improve the sector to some extent the predictable recession of the year. Thus, the operation provides the economy, especially tourism, resistance. In addition, the procedure supports future vision and the light of Icelandic tourism until 2030 that the report will lead to sustainable development, particularly in terms of the emphasis on interest and benefits of the local people. A respectable president. If the bill becomes legal, the government will allow a digital tourist version of five thousand dollars. to people who are born in 2002 or before and who have an Icelandic social security number. This is expected to apply approximately 250,000 individuals. The time of travel is from day to day to December 30, 2020, and the overall cost of the procedure can be up to 1.5 billion. In order to ensure that the administration is most useful to the country's tourism, it is suggested that a person can continue to make his own travel as well as that a person can pay up to 15 travel supplies. The bill provides the limitation of the enterprises authorised to receive travel payment, but as I came into it, the operation is primarily intended to provide companies in the tourism sector. Enrollment is primarily based on objective criteria, i.e. Official licences and companies within the tourism services that have a work station in Iceland. First, there is a company that has a valid license to travel agencies as travel agencies or traveling halls of day - to - day travel. Secondly, a company in a restaurant and room service with a legitimate license, based on the law on restaurants, resting places, and entertainment. Third, there are museums and organizations that highlight Icelandic culture, history, or nature. The bill insists that the term enterprise is applied to those persons who can receive travel for services rendered. The concept should be explained in the same way as done in the sense of competitiveness, i.e. It may be an individual, a company, a public person, or others who are engaged in a job. Is this definition independent of society or sector. A respectable president. Travel will be implemented in the form of an application on a mobile phone that can be used in a simple way in payment. For individuals who do not use a smartphone or choose not to download the applet, there will be an offer for the use of data codes through the Internet. This allows the applet to offer a simple solution to the transfer of portable donors, donors and receivers without cost. Workgroup in cooperation with the Yay ehf colony. has been working on the delivery of the gift letter, which represents the Directorates of Employment and Development, the Ministry of finance, the To-dos Office on Digital Iceland, the Travel Office and the Transport Service Association. The task centre will be the web site of a journey. This will also provide incentives for travel within a country cared for by a travel agency. It is planned that the delivery will be ready for early June. The organisations within the transport service that meet the requirements for participation can enter into an international network and can concomitantly present their performance or oer to the travel authorities. I hope a company will see good in attracting tourists in this way. Travel is a government aid, considering that its use is restricted to certain employment activities in this country. The bill was worked in accordance with the EEA State Support Directive, but as a result, a maximum of 100 million companies are allowed to take over. K. payment in the form of a traveller. It should be noted that the procedure covers several thousand enterprises within the tourism service, so one company is unlikely to reach the maximum threshold. In any case, the technical solution assumes the maximum and will stop payment when a company reaches its maximum. A respectable president. The objective of this bill is to encourage people to travel through the country and to protect their transport in the country, providing the same time for the economy and, in particular, traveling services for the high down cycle that has been followed by the pandemic crown virus. If the bill is legal, the person who has reached 18 years of age can pay for the travel of companies in Icelandic tourism that are registered on the website. This arrangement will be further presented in the morning at a meeting that will flow into a travel agency's website. The bill does not call for changes in other laws and has been employed in good consultation with the Ministry of Economics and Economics, to-dos on Digital Iceland, Tourism, and the Group of Tourism. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u64	A respectable president. We're here on travel administration, digital gift of 5,000 bucks. I'm kind of out of words, and I just want to know how, in the world, Ministers see that the 5,000 bucks. Enough to travel in Iceland for individuals and older citizens who are entitled to $200,000. paid off? I'd understand that if it were fifteen times, if it were 75,000. I'm asking, "Why on earth are we letting this go all the way up the road?" Would it not be easier to have it so that those who are least able to travel around the country could receive the gift and hence have at least one gift? one summer of traveling in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u65	Mr. President. The answer to this question is simply that it is a general procedure. True, it is possible to hand over to someone who may be useful but may not all. This also needs to be viewed in the context of other actions. I'm not saying that everyone will make the same use or spend the same amount of money on vacation. This is a general operation, and we are not specifying it for special groups in any other way than for a person to be a good person. It may be that those who have more than one hand use 5,000. and then spend a considerably higher money than those with less money. Or it may be that, whatever the case, those who have more than one hand do more. I'm not gonna try to read in the behavior of everyone who receives this gift letter. [[The president calls.]] The answer is that this is a general action and not a specific procedure. There are many other actions that we have been taking, which are specific, not these.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u66	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Today on Friday, 20,000 dollars were being paid off. to scarcity, tax and inadequacy. This is where we deposit 5,000 bucks. and there'll be a huge group, desperate older civilians and low-payers, who will just not be able to afford to go ashore and travel, just can't afford to take advantage of this. That's why I find it very strange to set it up like this. That's, I'd say, a little ugly to say that everyone gets a travel check, everyone can go to travel. It's just not right. 5,000 bucks. ... isn'ta lotof money in Iceland. In some parts of the country, this may be enough for one large pizza. Then there's something else to do, to get to the place and stay. I just don't get it this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u67	Mr. President. We hope that a company in travel services will host a convention and a variety of offers. We're hoping this money will be multiplied by a company, i.e. that the amount of money will be higher. I don't know if any company will but I don't believe that any company does. You can do business with the companies that can double the amount or hang something behind this money. It is also a gift that is a universal gift, that is, of course, the money of taxpayers to whom we are putting in this - and it can go to anything. You can also go to museums in the capital area for those who live here, go to a restaurant, and get snacks. This can be used for a number of things. There is no one government route for the trip, for it to take six hours from the capital area, a stay, a three - dish meal, and a trip to the earth. There are other things you can do. However, we hope that those who have less time for work can do business with those who will make double the amount or increase it in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u68	A respectable president. It's a very interesting bill. There are a few things I would like to kill only in the short time we have here. First, I would like to ask: Are we publishing a digital currency? It sounds a little like that. This should be available in a smart program by phone or with a code on a web page, and in connection with it, there is a little interesting thing to do with personal protection. There's a lot of information there on the use of the taxpayer, how he chooses to share this gift or use it. Third, three. Companies between enterprises, those having problems on 31st December 2019, can only get 25 million in the form of tourism while others can get 100 million. And how do we know, how do we really know consumers, about transparency, which company? When working towards increased transparency, this is interesting, especially if you ask if there would be some kind of imbalance between these types of enterprises. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u69	Mr. President. No, we're not publishing a digital currency. It is, in fact, an electronic gift letter with activity similar to a discount code. But the reason for the 100 million and 25 million is government assistance. The consumers do not have special information about the financial status of the enterprise or when the company is approaching the 25 million or 100, but the system we drive or are buying a service will know when the company is going up to the maximum.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u70	A respectable president. Question number two about personal protection. It had to be entered. There may be something missing on the bill regarding personal protection, though, there is some information on how people are using their transport. I wonder again about 3. g., of what sort of company can accept this travel payment. There are companies in good business and they can, as a minister spoke of earlier, possibly multiply this, this multiplicity to the highest level. Minister spoke of, but those who are in more trouble cannot. It may create an imbalance in a travel market when a more successful company suddenly has the opportunity to take on quite a larger portion. If the overall effect of this is to be 1.5 billion, it may be 15 companies who can only take everything to themselves, who knows, at least a great deal. So it would be very interesting to see the transparency regulations in this regard which companies will receive these provisions. Will follow a similar list as was used for e.g. on the early part-change process?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u71	Mr. President. There is no personal information collected during this operation. This is all done in accordance with personal protection laws, etc. If the committee feels that it needs more attention, she will examine it. Of course, parts of the improvement process cannot be compared with this operation. We can't publish a list of what companies are getting in this way; at least I'm not in the answer to whether it's going to be possible afterwards. But it's all a different kind of operation, a different kind of operation. There are only consumers in this case who receive 5,000 bucks. A letter of gift offering and can either use it independently, regardless of how much they choose, as long as the companies meet the conditions that are clearly defined here. We wanted it to be as objective as possible so that there was no thoughtful assessment somewhere inside the system, it would be reserved in the law. [[The president calls.]] Then the consumer has every control over how he destroys it. Thus, there is much difference between this route and the way things work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u72	President. What I like about this operation is that the consumer is trusted to choose, i.e. In a sense, a market route is hidden in this. All over 18 will receive 5,000 bucks. And then they pick out where they want to use that coin. There's one thing I'd like to ask a minister about in relation to the Covid business she's proposed: The cost of this bill is estimated at about 1.5 billion, which produces a measure of transport within the country. How much is it compared to the money otherwise trapped, if another Covid bill is highest. A minister is able to walk, for 12 months, and will not be useful this year until the next spring in the country because people are not paid back the money they had paid for their tourism? Just so we can see the context in these figures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u73	Mr. President. The consumers who have a requirement for a package sale are all mixed up with foreign tourists, who are also among them. I don't have any information on how it split, how much the share is, how many Icelanders are selling out, and how many foreign tourists live here. The bill has been held at a Senate Committee, and much has been discussed. Time does not work with that position, and I don't know any better than any company has reimbursed a part of the payment. I don't know what the situation in those companies is when people start traveling this summer, and each situation will be on package travel legislation, and if companies are going to be paying back to a greater extent. [[The president calls.]] So I can't answer with certainty how much of Iceland's population has companies' requirements here compared to the 1.5 billion that this operation is expected to cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u74	President. The minister knows that I've introduced a proposal to a professional health board that releases this money as soon as possible and solves the financial problems of these companies. If, anyway, they went into failure or bankruptcy, which is what the prime minister on packaging trips is trying to stop, they get, without going into business failure or bankruptcy, immediately access to this guarantee money, and the insurance companies do not lose because they had to pay off anyway to repay consumers. There is a solution to the solution to the money right away so that people can immediately buy trips for themselves in the summer here in the country. If a minister could tell us the overall numbers in these demands of foreign tourists and domestic people, we might have some idea. Light notes: When I noticed that this check applies to restaurants and so on, I began to think. Could this be used as, what should I say, a bottle of beer, to go to the bar and buy some beers? [[The president calls.]] When I want to do something nice with myself, I go to Vitabar and buy myself a steak and a beer. That's well under 5,000 bucks. so that I could use it that way and I'd probably do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u75	Mr. President. Hv. A senator can certainly take advantage of this journey in Vitbar. Of course, having restaurants in there is all that is going to work, for it is a large part of tourism when it comes to tourists'experience, whether they are Icelandic or not. It means, of course, that you can, too, be used in Domino's pizza. But this is in part to increase demand, and it is also a economic operation, but it is also symbolic. We're about to say, now we're going to take advantage of all the infrastructure around the country on our terms as far as we can afford and go through the country. This does not mean that it is mandatory, so the possession can be used anywhere in the country as long as the enterprise meets any of these conditions. For the package teleportation bill, it's insurance that each company has either through insurance companies, sometimes in clean cash, and sometimes they simply have a mortgage on the family property that runs the company. [[The president calls.]] In this regard, it is not possible to make the suggestion at any given moment. A senator has mentioned the matter, but we will see what makes that contribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u76	A respectable president. I think it's a very interesting bill, and I'm glad we had it discussed. I don't necessarily want to take part in discussing how little money that is such and what you can do with it, much rather I think this is an interesting experiment, a general action as the minister so kindly introduced, to encourage people's consumption. We need to do everything right now to keep our concerns going and thus keep it going so that we can push the economy forward so that they will last as many as possible alive. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on two things. I'll get to the second inquiry later. There are museums and companies offering remunerations. So are we also talking about the possibility of a tour? We know that stage artists and musicians have had a huge drop in income during those times. [[The president calls.]] Will the desire for travel include such cultural events that take place within the collection or within the activities of companies, restaurants, accommodations, and entertainment? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u77	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. Senator on the effect. Of course, the companies in the country have a lot of efficiency and it may be that if companies are able to register well and advertise some sort of offer, the effect on companies with little efficiency may be much higher than on large companies in the capital area with very high efficiency. This operation might have more impact on such an enterprise. Travel is a well - established collection, as well as a collection of others, as is the last number in the list, and so are those with permission for rooming and gatherings and restaurants. As it is put here, the gift cannot be used to pay for a concert, but if the concerts are held in any place where any other requirement is met, the administration can be used there. [[The president calls.]] But a concert ticket is not part of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u78	Mr. President. I think it's something we'll simply look into a committee, try to have the interpretation as far as possible. These are unique times now, and especially in the country, events can be linked. But another thing, maybe a much bigger one: We at a council, we don't know the smaller part, we haven't had any stage photos, really nothing about anything, not in one language, either. I'd like to know if at some point the Minister and the government has had, because this is a cautious step, put it down to make this much larger and more operation and general action. Even 50,000 or 100,000 people have been calling on a person to support domestic consumption in summer because summer and late in the fall is a key time for us to keep our business going. Is there any stage where the government appreciated the impact of more drastic measures that would have a direct impact, a significant impact, on the working world at this time?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u79	Mr. President. Of course, you can try to discern the different effects of the amount. But the question is, What basis can be given, to form when it comes to temporarily creating jobs, etc. Of course, it can be calculated that it would be more economic if the sum was considerably higher, but it was a decision taken, with 5,000 k, and I thought it was more important to work fast and safely, a problem to work that would be simple and efficient, both for users, i.e. people who make use of the ownership, but also for the companies who sign up for the game. There is a great chance with the app or the applet to connect to a different kind of gift letter to form if the workplace wants to give 10,000 credits to staff. A summer present, it can be inserted into the applet and it will be added. [[The president calls.]] I thought it was more important to get this thing away from me and get it out in the beginning of June so that we could start off rather than especially see if the amount was much higher.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u80	President. I think it's the most interesting thing to do. When I first read it, I thought the same thing as many others; 5,000 bucks. is no terrible sum, and has only been complained about it in reply. But I read the whole thing and began to think about it a little bit, and I'm not from the fact that I'm supporting it. I'm going to see if I'm going to live through this talk to convince me of the opposite. There are a lot of things in this situation, though earlier, that we could have discussed with our methods and methods, such as this, and especially with the currency. The Dutch business is not very frequent here, perhaps because, after the Bgret account began, all the talks around the European Union, or possibly of Iceland's involvement, have changed or been destroyed. Even the fiercest supporters of the Member States seem to have agreed to wait until the Bgret episode is completed, whenever that happens. So the Piratars happen to have a rather old course that actually occurred to me the other day to reinvigorate and it's about making it possible for the so-called sidemates. Now I realize that this bill does not include a version of the side taxpayer's version. These are Icelandic crowns, financed by Icelandic dollars, by government funds. But this raises questions similar to those raised by the bill's purpose and the fact that it is indeed a government aid, not just in the sense of the EEA, but in all sense, it is good to ask a few questions about currency and how it works and how it does not work. In the past, those here used to have a few speeches on what currency and economic issues are generally undesirablely little in the minds of people, except when it comes to some very deep personal situation, such as. the imminent failure of the land, the loss of one's home, or the loss of one's own home. Then it will suddenly gain a number of expertise in things such as insurance or interest, regular growth, changing growths, and God knows what to do. In my opinion, after the collapse of 2008, what we need in Iceland is that the public, the public, the general population, and the people living here, have to have certain financial experts. That's a very demanding, respectable president. I'm not asking for little. Money is complex, even boring and dry. I'd like to suggest that you don't. We can ask what happens if we produce a new currency, another currency at the same time, a side currency designed to reach a certain goal. What happens then? What, Mr. Honorable President? I think that question is the subject of a very interesting and dramatic discussion because such goals are being developed in the bill. The aim here is to increase the demand for domestic services, especially tourism, recreation, restaurants and such, as the bill shows. What is more, these so - called trips expire at the end of the year. They must be destroyed this year to maintain their travel. Still, it's only Icelandic crowns. A respectable president. If we place the Icelandic crown in a bank account, it's in that bank account, in any case. We can make her feel secure, we can have her disloyal. We can bind it or keep it free with interest, etc. But the United States does not usually have the mark of disappearing, that of quitting at the end of the year. By the way, money can just disappear. It was sometimes said here after a crash, falsely, that money doesn't pop up, but it's just wrong, respectable president, they do it for a number of reasons. When loans are paid up or when stocks fall down, it can be said that money is wasting, that they are stopping. This should not surprise anyone, for money is not really some valuable thing that we can move from one place to another. After all, money is simply a number that we have built, a legal system, a tax system, an economy, around us. We accept these numbers, which are nothing but regular numbers like we write down on paper in exchange for services and goods. As a result, the authorities have the opportunity to publish these numbers, they do not have to be called Icelandic crowns, but in our case, they in general call them exactly that. Icelandic authorities can publish such things as travel contributions or some form of a side tax company, either funded with an Icelandic dollar or not, and leave it to a side ticket or to travel, or whatever we call it, to serve a certain goal. This discussion has never really survived any political activity. I think part of the reason is that when we talk about money or the economy in a wide sense, we were very easily caught up in things like insurance or interest, the classic economics that I don't belittle. It is important, and it may be more important that people try to understand the phenomena before they are shocked. I'm not worried about that, I'd say, that people get stumbled at them after they understand them. There is no way to lose that privilege. But the question arises: Is there no more to use such resources? This also raises the question: What if the amounts were higher? I don't want to belittle this amount because I think it matters. I think it'll be quite about having access to 5,000 bucks, free money, so to speak, in your pocket against using them somewhere in a trade or service that we would particularly like to promote in the light of these unprecedented circumstances. I think it has an overall effect and a positive effect. But it would also raise questions about how this would be financed. There are more questions than I can get in in the less than 8 minutes that remain from this talk. I'll do enough to say, "That's a lot to talk about. ' How money comes into existence and how it ceases to exist in the economy is an interesting question that we do not often ask. People who have expertise in the material often act as though the question is obvious, and the answers are clearly just as they are today; the way money comes into existence, for example. In the banking system, when people learn how money comes into existence and how the money system works, they usually view it as some kind of conspiracy theory, until they find out that it's not a conspiracy theory, just called the money system. From all such speculations, we should look for ways and solutions not only within traditional economic theories but also beyond that bound. The interesting thing about time, a respectable president is that he changes things. At one time, it seemed crazy to limit the workforce of people at a time of 73/48 hours a day, thinking that it was impossible to resist. You know, that's what we're gonna do. It seemed crazy at the time to offer unemployment benefits, or much less social security, but it is no longer because our economy is not cast down. It is certainly dependent on certain laws of nature, but it is not broken down. When I argue with my left - handed companions who want to deny that we're in this situation, I like it sometimes. You can build a house as you like, but we still depend on certain laws of physics that we must consider. Given them, and if we understand them well enough, we can do all sorts of intense things, such as social security, unemployment benefits, etc. A respectable president. I'm not going to the Civil Prize speech here and now, there's no time for that. But I think it's quite appropriate because this case is entirely related to it and could, in fact, be viewed as a sort of micron version of some kind of citizen's money, though I am sure that some of my colleagues here, who have more knowledge than I, can object, and that's divine. There is, however, a key limit to how much we could use these options. Even if we came here to the conclusion that this was a great deal, and we wanted to have it ten times higher, have it, like, ten times higher. Fifty thousand dollars per head instead of 5,000 bucks, would come up as the ultimate problem. In fact, a minister mentioned in this context and there are the limitations we have because of the EEA, the most important international cooperation we are involved in, I think, at any rate in the economic sector, and will not belittle it. That cooperation assumes that the economic systems that have connected themselves together will do things in the same way, in any way, in the same way. They want to have comparable rules, so that investors, or even just a worker, who works at what they do, can move between the economy and know in all the basics, and preferably in all detail, about what is going on. This is a noble and good goal that I support. But have the fault that we need to accept all kinds of limitations that do not enable us to experiment on what we should do. It immediately raises the question, Should we not be more inclined to expand our efforts and put some screeching in some kind of EEA bonus that would enable us to experiment further in areas like this, on the sideposts and on government aid, though with some limitations? But I don't want to paint too bright a picture of this, Mr President, because there are some basic defects in testing new ideas. We do not necessarily have much experience with the side effects of testing things that do not always happen. There's two things in the bill that I'd like to point out, and here's the possibility that I might convince myself not to approve of this bill. It is, on the other hand, that technically exporting money to people today also includes things such as traceability and a variety of personal protection concerns beyond the laws of the law - and I can't repeat it enough that the mere fact that something works as a personal protection is not enough in itself. Following the law is not a personal protection goal. It's the purpose of the law to follow personal protection. A goal is never reached if our values are not strong enough. We can find many things and justifications for those who, while having the influence of government or other powerful members of the community, are suddenly becoming more powerful than we ever intended to give them. That's one of the things I'd worry about spreading bills like this one, i.e. on the technical grounds given here. I am also concerned about the conditions the authorities would put in place for the use of capital, as in this case. A respectable president. We are living in unprecedented situations right now. It is appropriate to try new things. It is appropriate to do things now that might not be always appropriate. It wouldn't have been appropriate in 2013 to set these laws, I mean. It would have been strange, though, because we want to have a competitive business and we want other companies to have a fair competition, or I want that at least. But the bill is an inevitable condition in which the authorities have already said, "Here's a coin you can only use like this. " It's not so narrowly defined in this bill that's good. It's very good how far this is from everything, but it's there. We would never produce any Icelandic crowns with these requests. We would never allow people to buy euro or dollars with the premise that they could buy only housing or just buy a car. At any rate, we would not do so and be content with it. Maybe we'd do it in an emergency. When it came to currency or capitalists at the time, we put the civilians on because of an emergency and it is, I think, the risk of more intensive use. There is a danger that I think we can face with some discussion. And in particular, I think there is a danger that can be dealt with in a perennial way if we engage in further experiments such as these based on some preconceived objective. As an example, to strengthen a certain part of the country or something like that or to promote special education or something like that. There are various goals that we could give ourselves that would not in themselves be at odds with the competitive ways and the other, so basically, the free economy that most of us would probably like to have. However, these are questions that have not generally reached a point in political discussions, either in Iceland or elsewhere, knowing that I have. I think that now that we enter the future at an alarming speed, there will be an ever greater supply to ask these questions and to ponder over them. Now I had in mind finishing my speech with a short fist over climate change, but I have to let it wait another time because of lack of time. Other than that, a respectable president, I have failed to convince myself that I am opposed to this matter and therefore is still in favor.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u81	Mr. President. We're covering a travel bill. Of course, I'm celebrating this bill, but there are a few things that I'm only thinking about and that I just want to be close in my speech today. It must be noted that the times in which we live are simply unbelievable. The situation today may be said to have been completely unpredictable. Who would have thought that we could not go to restaurants, movies, museums, or gyms all over the world? These days, there's not a lot of people going to Reykjavík. It's really an amazing experience. We know, though, that this will all come to an end, and we hope for a brighter time ahead. Yet, there is still nothing in this regard, no matter how the virus will behave, and whether other countries will soon open their borders. Similarly, there is uncertainty as to whether the help offered by the Kingdom is available to those in need. The situation is that companies and individuals all over Iceland have had a tough time in the past few months. Some companies could adapt their business to their changing circumstances while others could not. In short, the situation is that, unfortunately, not all companies will survive the hardships, which will have a tremendous impact on a number of individuals who rely on their survival in connection with those enterprises. Mr. President. It is clear that in spite of open borders, foreign tourists will most likely not be many in the country in the next month. Many of the uncertainty factors play into it. Thus, the market can be said to be quite different from what it has been in recent years. Thus, in Icelandic tourists, we trust only about 10% of the number of tourists coming to the country each year. The transport patterns of Icelandic tourists are a little different, too. They do not stay at hotels, do not buy guidance, or perform such services. You can even say that. see that it has never been so difficult to buy a trailer as it does to a house where it seems to bounce out. Iceland's tourists are also influenced by the weather, so it is less likely that they would like to bind themselves to regular days at hotels around the country. The opportunity, therefore, is increasing for experience and refreshments. Many companies are already offering all kinds of offers and peering to see how they can survive. Many of them finish the summer. But then what? What will fall look like? Will travel supplies, partial improvements, and other provisions be sufficient to save the tourism service? Or will we look up at the mass rants and that bigger companies are buying up smaller companies all over the country? But back to the delivery, the case we'll discuss here. According to the bill, it will be permitted to give its own travel to another person, but each individual can pay only for a maximum of 15 travel donations. Then, in view of the views of government support, a maximum of the total budget of tourism can be taken by each company. In general, it's 100 billion. At a point, but 25 million. K. has been evaluated in a business problem on December 31st. I noticed, however, that it was not merely decided to give such a check to all Icelanders, including children, but it is clear that for children of many families, 10,000 will be enough. dose, of course, is sufficient. In fact, according to figures on Iceland's Haguems Office, 81,364 children are under 18 years of age. Would it not have been worth adding them, especially making it easier for families with less time to spend a day together in the summer? Not to speak of making tourism easier to survive. Mr. President. Granted, the journey is a wonderful gift to Iceland, which, of course, will contribute to summer travel, at least for the well-being of Icelanders. The others probably don't leave their town, though they might be camping. The most expensive costs are food prices in the Bonus and the crowns that do not have permission from a travel agency. Not everyone can afford to take a big trip or take the whole family riding on a horse or to spend a dollar looking at museums. The goal is often just to take a vacation on land. Mr. President. I'm not talking the transfer down here. This is certainly going to matter. But I'm a little worried about the export and the conditions for enterprises that can accept the travel process. Should it not be enough to be registered as a travel - service company, allowing companies to allow them to do this if they can demonstrate that they provide services for tourists? I'm afraid you're already putting pressure on a weak tourist service, so she's going to have to go up against the travel. Therefore, consumers will enjoy it, but I'm afraid of the tourism, especially the small sceptre companies, who may not even have the right license but are certainly important. Mr. President. We need to be on the road to the position we are living in today's world. If we were talking about total fishing failure, to what kind of response would this have been? Since collapse, we have had a major job in Iceland, where much of our exports have been acquired. True, there is reason to take the position and to use the time to jump into the article that has grown tremendously fast in recent years. In recent years, too, precious rods have grown up throughout the earth, which would indeed be tragic to lose in the present condition. Therefore, it is important to support the tourism program during this difficult time. The bill we are considering is certainly part of it, but we need to do more and we need to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u82	President. I just like this bill very much. Since this is published electronically and the system follows the way this is used, we need to look at it on the Committee. V.E.G. The minister answered the question earlier, but it will be considered on the Committee whether the privacy of people's private lives is completely certain and then a barrier to companies that use public funds in this way. But I like the bill very much. The minister gets 1.5 billion, which people can then use to travel, to enjoy themselves, to do well with themselves, to go to the waves, and all of this matters naturally. I think it's political very good for the Minister. I also agree that this way is so that it's the market that controls it. I think that's a very good version. You could move the dates down, so if people with children are going to travel, they'll be more useful. But it's the market that controls, the people decide for themselves what they want to do. That's good. It's also good that the minister gave up a little bit of the ball with the companies who are going to take advantage of this thing might try to slip into it by having an extra offer or something like that going on. I didn't understand the layout exactly, but it'll be interesting to discuss it on the committee how to try to let it wind up a little bit, become a snowball that's running on the outside. For what we the Minister talked about just before, about money that hasn't been reimbursed on a package trip, it's all going on now. It's paybacks on a package trip, so they're returning money. While there's a bill stuck, as I mentioned earlier, I've made adjustments so that the reimbursement can go out as soon as travel agencies can approach the insurance money they have, it's only come out right away. I thought it would happen sooner, especially because if I understood it correctly in the treatment of the case on the Committee, some of the map companies will think it's a little bit of an option to see how it goes with the package-page bill. The minister is naturally just wearing the ball there. I hope that the work committee will solve as soon as possible so that all uncertainty about these factors will disappear. Because people know that they will be reimbursed, they can start investing in trips within the country. But let's just go over the bill. Right here, it says the transfer is a digital 5,000. Indicate by the government to individuals 18 years of age and older using the Icelandic social security number. I mentioned before that it might be good to bring down the age range so that larger families with children can be more useful in using the original possession code. This is five thousand. and that means that this is a small amount, coming from the taxpayers. We have a prolific tax system, and that's how it's taken, and it's given a rescindant, which means it's returned in kronals. At that time, there will be an evener distribution of valuables, tax dollars, the specific equations for which they are concerned. The approach to the tax system by Pirata is very clear, so those who have more than one hand should have more than one share of the combination. That's good. According to III, a company with a valid license for a travel agency is referred to here. a song about a travel agency, can take advantage of this. The line above says: A person can use travel to finance companies who meet one of the following conditions and have a work station in Iceland. It's good to secure the station, be sure of it. But then there are those conditions. There's talk of a valid travel permit by a travel agency, with a legitimate license under Count 7. ... atrescuits,housesand entertainment. When I read this, I thought, " Could I go to Vitbar and have a steak and a beer? ' 5,000 bucks. would do it well. I'd probably be able to have three beers and a steak and some chips and some sauce. So that 5,000 guy's gonna be pretty good if you go to the right places. It is also said of a valid license from an appropriate medical committee that has been issued for Group I restaurants. I haven't exactly considered which of these points. And it continues to be said that driving rents with a legitimate employment permit from a U.S. O.A. room of 1st. Section 3. the law on the lease of registered automobiles. Then there are museums and businesses offering a show of pay that highlights Icelandic culture, history, or nature. A person is permitted to give his own travel so that people can collect them. A person may receive a maximum of 15 travel donations. So how much are we up to? That's 75,000 bucks, I'm sure you can have a good time with that. The time of travel is from the day when the bill becomes the law I expect to be very soon, until December 31, 2020. My role in the job committee, where I'm sitting for Pirata, is just to make sure that privacy and privacy are being protected. I see nothing else that I would put myself up against, I have no perplexing reasons to do anything more about it. So I can't see anything else, at least not in my own way, but that the bill will go through really fast. Of course, we observe the comments that come in. I got one comment sent by someone who rents out a GPS. He has specialized in renting out some of these equipment. V.E.G. Minister has said it himself, if I understood it correctly, that the focus is trying to do it fast and efficient, it will be effective and simple to make this money return to the tourism service. But there may be a little look at it, I don't quite know how much it is. We will review with the Committee whether there are ways to simplify the use of a small amount of focus on the tourism services and the parties that otherwise would not be able to take advantage of this travel check. Two. It is said that travel is an exception to tax obligation according to the 4th Unit A, section 7. a law on income taxes. The meaning of that expression needs to be examined accurately. It is often so that when poorer or elderly citizens receive some gifts or something, they end up paying taxes the following year. You got too much, my friend, or you got too much! Now it's all gonna be taken care of! We have to make sure that such problems are not part of the gift. Then there's 3. par.Unable to connect to POP server A maximum of 100 million companies can take place in every company. K. payment in the form of a traveller. A business that was assessed as a problem on December 31, 2019, can mean a maximum of 25 million. K. Remuneration in the form of a traveller. I just need to understand exactly what reality is in this situation. I'm not against the fact that some sort of arrangement is built on objective grounds where money is better used, since they are likely to support those companies who are likely to survive this and to be less incentive for money to go to a company that, anyway, is likely to fail. I'm all in favor of some kind of arrangement. Whether this arrangement is the right arrangement, or how well it reaches its purpose, if it really is the point, I don't know, but I will look at it. And I'm in favor of the principle that when using tax dollars to support the tourism industry in Iceland, there is some perennial approach, so money will be put into companies that will survive, not where it will be wasted anyway. That wouldn't be a good use of tax money. In Comb 4. It is said that a travel agency monitors the implementation of these laws. Nice. That's very good. Often a minister is being crammed in, offering a wide range of emotions, and I like the fact that this is being done by a professional agency. In the 5th. is said to be true even now. Then the report comes, it's a short bill. When I'm at the highest. The minister went over it, I think she just read it all. I like the bill. They need to be protected from immunity, and they need to be able to protect their transparency and see if this gift has negative consequences for those who accept benefits from the government, that they do not have to pay back on the grounds I mentioned. They need to be careful that this actually achieves their purpose to strengthen our tourism, whether we can make some kind of improvement, or change to a job - road committee, to ensure that the funds are best returned to travel rather than to other aspects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u83	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for this bill, which means giving the Americans a digital gift letter to protect them from travel and travel within the country. The digital gift letters are part of government operations to provide the economy and, in particular, the travel service. I have to say, it's a nice thing to say, though there are a few minors on what I'm going to come in a little later and I need to consider inside the Committee. The government's first action pack is due to the virus epidemic. It's been two months since he was approved, and we're seeing this on the bill right now, two months later. This seems to me to show that the government's actions on the virus epidemic, counter-important measures to minimize the damage we are facing because of it, many are all too late, and in many cases they are also too complex, and this is a case that could have been taken earlier. I'm totally convinced of that. Therefore, it is urgent that the government in charge of this issue sees that the time between the announcement of action and its arrival is too long, and waiting time can also cause damage. During this period, it is possible that some company simply cannot live in such a way that sooner the suggestions come up with the better. It is vital to bear in mind. This is, of course, a good incentive to travel within the country, and it shows that the nationals will be able to use their travel administration in any of the companies that have a valid license at a travel agency and those who have a valid license to run restaurants, stays, or engage in entertainment, as well as those who have a valid license from a health committee. In addition, it can be used by car rents, museums, and companies that offer a demonstration of payment on Icelandic culture, history, or nature. I especially welcome emphasis on Icelandic culture, history, and nature. So it is clear that all tourism companies can participate. The technical solution is well implemented in my opinion and simple payments by this transfer. It then offers opportunities, not just this particular gift, but as the highest gift. A minister here mentioned in his talk that companies and groups can come together in that material and give gifts and a new style of payment, which is a new creation and a good work. And it costs all the money, and it costs a government budget of about 1.5 billion, 5,000 bucks. per person. Some have made a joke about the small amount, but it can be raised. In a sense, this effort is to encourage travel within the country, and it is vital that the country do so and increase its consumption within the country. It helps all of us, helps the economy, the economy, and everyone really works at it, and sooner, the better, the faster we get going. Under the circumstances, a task group represented by the government and the traveling work. I cut by the highest. In her speech, a minister mentioned that she puts up with the expectations of protests from tourism companies involved in the project, and I thought that it should have been implemented for that work, just because it would be counterimposed. I think it would have been much wiser, and then we and those who get this letter of gift would have seen that the project is bigger, i.e. The amount of money will probably rise, and people may see more benefit in it. I find it somewhat reprehensible that such an assignment was not implemented within the task group that was involved in this work. I'd also like to step in, Mr. President, Article 3. that discuss the maximum amount each company can take with this process. The figure is 100 million and 25 million. K. for enterprises which were in trouble by 31st December 2019. 100 million. K. is large, of course. In fact, it is unlikely that companies will cross the limit because there are naturally thousands of tourism companies in Iceland and, of course, this will spread among them, even though one of them is more popular than the other. The reason for this is the European legislation and the European Union and the maximum government strategist. Now we're about to find that the European Union's impact on the situation and how we apply it in this country, and that I feel that it's because these are unprecedented situations, and we should be able to decide for ourselves how we can apply things and what would be best for us and that would be an important thing to me. However, this is a climax because the European Union has already recommended this in its message as shown in the report on the bill. That's very interesting. I just want to come into what I feel is missing from the bill. There are companies renting camping equipment, tents, GPS, sleeping bags, anything they need on the road, loose items related to tourism. They don't fall under this bill. We know that there are families who can't afford to buy hotel accommodations, have no tents, house cars, trailers, etc. but maybe I'd like to take a trip and want to be able to rent the equipment, so I think it's perfectly normal that such a company could take advantage of this gift letter. I know the Ministry has confirmed that the procedure described here, i.e. Rent on camping equipment, doesn't match the definition of the law or bill. I would like to encourage the committee to examine very carefully whether it is not reasonable for such companies to accept the gift letters. I am convinced that if people took advantage of the route, they would bring a discount or something. We see that rentals fall under the bill and they rent, for example. A GPS device so that they can be bought with travel services. This is some thoughtful evaluation, which is not good in my opinion because it is all about helping companies who have had problems and who are urging the country to travel to stimulate the economy. A team is doing business with a company that rents camping equipment. It's perfectly normal for such a thing to depend on a travel service. Therefore, it is vital that we be examined with an open mind. I think this describes how the Ministry has approached the matter. I've seen how the Ministry has answered that request. I feel that it describes a measure of ignorance and lack of understanding regarding the purpose of these electronic gift letters that are about to be distributed. As I say, not everyone can afford to go up on a glacier or a horse or ride or to the rest of this travel and entertainment associated with it, but they can use simple camping and rent that equipment. I think it's proper to have a thorough inspection, Mr. President, and, eventually, I'd like to introduce it. Other than that, we support the Central Program. We've supported every action by the government in terms of antiviral counter measures and are responsible for this. But it is also true to remind you here that the government and the government groups have taken all the suggestions on the smaller part and, therefore, the middle party also in this operation. I'm sorry, and I'm tired of bringing it up on the platform because we're all in the same group trying to stimulate the economy and get our wheels back started. Therefore, all practical suggestions that come from the opposition to government should be listened. However, we have also experienced that it does not seem to matter where the suggestions come from. The proposals of the government opposition have received a slightly altered implementation for the government class, and they made it theirs. We know it, and we've discussed it here. That's the way it is in the politics. Nevertheless, I believe the matter is good, but, as I mentioned, it has to be covered that under no circumstances are all of us in the Central Party thinking that we should fall under it. This is an important task that the committee must consider carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u84	A respectable president. Hv. A senator only spoke of the technical export, which he thought was sufficient and good, etc. I just wanted to ask myself, " Why? Because when you look at it, it's only the information that a travel agency has access to, anyway, in regard to the implementation monitoring. This is a smartphone program that people have to install or log into a web page to obtain code. When used, huge numbers of information about who uses the capital and for what purpose are available, so you don't talk about smartphone programs yourself, which provide access to an enormous amount of other information. V.E.G. A minister earlier said that no personal information is collected, but it does exist. Even if personal information is not collected, it's just about publishing the gift letter for me, for someone in the city. Then the letter of gift is linked to the individual. This is clearly seen using the code and the type of code, since there is obviously a veneer in between. The company will then have to accept this money and get it from the government. Then you have a full circle of who did what and when and you need to gather a variety of demographic information, such as what people of your income used for the money, on what occasion, etc. A lot of things can be done. But the technology in there is a little questionable. That's what I wanted to roll up with. A senator: Why is this so technical?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, these are very good tips. It's a rough night. In this regard, a senator is absolutely entitled to and concerns himself. I'll take my heart to that. What I meant by the technical transfer was simply that it is relatively simple to use this gift letter, a pay for a gift - letter service. There's something that has to be fine when you start doing this kind of thing, that it's simple. But, of course, a smartphone program masks the fact that you're being watched pretty closely, what you do, where you're at, etc. This trend has been followed in many areas. Of course, there is a measure of concern. Do we want people to know where we're going and where we're paying for something and what services we're buying? I'm not sure anyone cares. But I'm not much of a technician in this field, huh? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is far better than I in that matter. No doubt he could find ways or suggest some way to avoid being watched, so to speak, when we use a smartphone program in this way. He could offer them suggestions here and even guide the government in that regard. However, I'm not sure that she would be any interested in listening to that, based on our experience, about the suggestions we've put in on viral epidemics and counter measures in those areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u86	A respectable president. It's a problem. Once this has become digital, the connection is suddenly self-improved, at any rate the possibility of it. In fact, I have no suggestion as to the fact that there must be some kind of firewall between who the individual is and where the gift letter comes from, if any part of that knot is to be cut down. However, someone will be trusted to have the quality that should be in the process in order to make sure that everyone gets what they want and that it is traceable. If this is anonymous, someone can say, "I didn't get my code, and then I wouldn't be able to verify it if it wasn't traceable. " It's a complicated problem. There's nothing but the very point. That's why I asked. In view of the above words, a senator would think the technical solution was good. A minister who said no personal information would be collected. I think this is a very interesting problem with this bill and I would like the committee to look into it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u87	Mr. President. I agree with what. Senator, this is an interesting subject and I'm sure it will be discussed within the committee. Does this lead to a measure of influence? Is it possible that this will discourage people from using the gift letter? You never know, maybe someone. But simplicity is important in this regard. Then you will think of older ones who are not as much in smartphone programs and smartphones as they are today. How will this benefit the group, to get the gift letter, etc.? Had been more sensible, e.g. As for older citizens, to bring to them the amount of money, these 5,000 bucks, in the form of a deposit in a bank account or something similar in order to use it, to stimulate the economy in shops and services, and so on? There is also a view, so there is much to consider in this regard. I'm stressing that the committee's going over it as a matter of course. A senator has mentioned here and is rightly concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I hope and expect things there to be said. Committee. Hv. In his speech, a senator mentioned that the Central Party supported all the antiquities of the government in the Covid-19 epidemic and mentioned that it showed responsibility. I may not agree completely that it is automatic to support the government's actions, I have my doubts about summer. But all right, we can have differing views about it. On the other hand, the question was, "What? " Another senator, whom I did not get tired of mentioning here myself at the time, in the old days when I was a young senator, then another government was in charge, i.e. The more part rejects the exceptions suggestions of the smaller part. You're absolutely right. Senator. But by now, I must mention this, that when I first attended the assembly, in 2013-2016, we were with a prime minister still named. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. It was the exact same story then. I'm calling it up because I think it's an important problem in the way the Allied works. I was surprised when I started at a council that it was really a minor law that was rejected. It's just some rules. And even when you're able to convince the greater part, he wants to pick it up on his own arms and put it on his own name. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Perhaps during the next election period, some will get upset. So a government senator will use himself for the Central Party to listen to the suggestions of the smaller section, and they agree if they feel good? Or else will. A senator continues the tradition of the Chairman of the Middle Party at his own time, and still practices with the government today, rejecting all the proposals of the minority, no matter what?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. That was an interesting answer, and I'm glad to be able to come here and express myself about it because I was in the same situation. A senator when I first sat at a council in October 2017. Then I made adjustments in budgets for increased contributions to the Southnes, since in the Southnes, government agencies have not received the same financial resources as local institutions. I was so convinced that this would be a support, and especially for the members of the Southern District, wherever they stood. But it turned out that the suggestion was made. I was very disappointed, and I was surprised and needed a little time to get over it. I finally did, and then I realized how things have worked out, so to speak. A senator owns an ally in this regard. Of course, you should listen to good suggestions, no matter where they come from. And I will certainly use it, if at some point in politics, if I listen to my suggestions, go over them, and support them if they are, and if they are good, and face the issues that lie to each other. There is no doubt in my mind. It's a tradition, why don't we just call it a raffle, here at the council to do the suggestions of my share on this road. I remind you that in the course of the viral epidemic, the government asked for suggestions from my share, and then you would have thought that maybe it would listen to them. So it was all showy? It just has to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u90	A respectable president. I think it's half to show. On the other hand, I think that's what we're doing. Senators of the greater part and the highest. Ministers didn't realize that. They don't think it's showy. In many cases, they feel that they are listening to the smaller parts and feel that they are looking for advice when they are trying to do so, that there is something that needs to be done. It is not enough simply to refrain from listening; it is necessary to listen. But I wanted to come up later and celebrate the attitude of it. A senator who urges him to hold on as time goes by. But I also point out that in Pirata's basic policy, Pirates stress critical thinking and informed decisions and that this includes that Pirantar's opposing policy in the light of data and knowledge acquired regardless of whether the proposal may at first seem desirable or not and that Pirate's attitude toward ideas is independent of who their spokes are. Even if we were. The members of the council disagree about quite a lot of material here, however, we can agree on this, and I welcome it and wish that the council would consider that discussion as an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator once again for an excellent answer. It is a joy to have the opportunity to bring about this matter. I just want to think about one thing, okay? A senator, in this context and in the work we've been working on a budget committee when proposals were being made from the smaller section. I made a suggestion to the budget for special extra payment, a stress payment for health care professionals. The proposal was taken lightly to a financial committee, received little or no discussion. It was in a pack of operations one, I moved a change order on this and it was released at the council. Then, in a pack of measures, there is a proposal from the government classifications for special health care professionals, so they just made my proposal. Of course, I was pleased with that. But it's just amazing work. But this is how it's worked, and we need to change it. It's just simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u92	President doesn't want to limit the freedom of speech. Congress officials are very much pleased, but it would make him very happy if opposers were to keep to the main points in the subject under discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u93	President. Hv. paritaprevir During his talkBirgir Þórarinsson's children reviewed that the Central Party had agreed and supported all the suggestions of the greater part of the Covid matter. I just wanted to make sure that that doesn't apply to a package bill at the top. Secretary of travel. Two middle class members are on the committee, but not why. Senator. The committee has established two administration executives, another is an expert on property. Both say that the requirements of reimbursement by consumers within 14 days are concerned with the ownership rights of the Constitution, the European Convention of Human Rights, and the laws of consumers. They say that with the bill, if it becomes a law as suggested by the minister, it is taking the permissible requirement of people. Then you have to give them a proprietor instead. They're taking over the rights. There's only one question left, because people can be deprived of property, even without breaking 72. The Constitution, by obtaining full and general prices, is necessary in the community to minimize the damage to the consumer, to the worker, or to the owner of the property, and that there are no other ways to go. Other ways, however, are effective. So the way a minister has proposed a violation of the Constitution, the bill becomes a law. I just wanted to make sure that it was. Þórarinsson It is not to say that this is the case with the support of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for entering this important matter, and I say here that I trust my colleagues on the committee to review it carefully. As it looks to me, I have serious doubts about that matter. I know an example of a family who has collected a family trip that cost a lot of money, for another million dollars, who has not since been gone, and who will not be reimbursed unless they are in the form of some deposit code, etc. That's a very careful matter to review. I'll take my mind off it as a matter of course. A senator mentioned in this regard. I also remind you that if not all of these companies buy insurance and think about it for this purpose, i.e. if the trip has not gone and there are legitimate reasons to repay it. Of course, humans must be honored. And although we live under unprecedented circumstances, the companies have not been able to make the move because of the epidemic, they are to have insurance, and there is something that needs to be considered carefully. Finally, I'd like to say that we take this very seriously on the committee and we'll be careful about it. I hope there is an acceptable conclusion for all parties in this regard so that they can enjoy pleasures and be reasonable when it comes to reimbursement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u95	A respectable president. The president mentioned earlier that he was not going to limit the freedom of expression or the freedom of speech by members of Congress, but he said that he would be very happy if members of the council were to stick to the subject. I realize that President Pirata's politics and politics are not the same as either, quite significant, the politics of the Middle Party and the politics of the Independence Party. But it's part of Porta's political saying that there's a good case, that they're being approached, that they listen to less things and such things. It's in this necklace that we're talking about politics. It's relevant, not just because of reason. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! In his talk, he mentioned it. This is relevant to the way adjustments are done and how a case is handled. So I firmly refuse that this was not related to the matter in some of the main points. I refuse. I wanted to come up here and say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u96	President. I'll agree with this. It is legal that the matter should be discussed by Congress, and now it is. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson explained that this is related to the case. The concept of human beings is unbelievably freely interpreted. Men go to bed and the president doesn't say, "Hey, you're out of school." So I want to point the top. The chairman of the council, now seated on the throne, is to be very careful when entering a discussion without a wide consultation with members of Congress in interpreting these laws. This is the subject of their interpretation of the law contrary to the tradition established at the General Assembly of the Icelanders to ensure the freedom of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u97	A respectable president. This small bill is filled with an enormous amount of interesting material, both novel and thought - provoking material. As mentioned here, the bill is primarily to trigger travel this year. This is government support for tourism companies with its limitations. It may be related to a message that was mentioned earlier in the discussion about the types of donations involved. What may be interesting is that this could be done a little more unlimited, e.g. that it was just part of a personal discount, that he had been raised for one month. Surely, then, it would not have been directed to travel services, but it could have been won in a different way. I asked the highest. A minister in question whether this was really a version of a digital currency. V.E.G. Minister said not to be, but it's pretty close. It's interesting with regard to the development of bitcoin issues and the like and because you've heard of plans for publishing a digital currency. This may be a small attempt into the whole pack. This can be viewed as a certain amount of payment; some have talked about whether it was like a civilian wage. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said so. I have to disagree a little bit, but I think he meant it in that place. But these arrangements could be considered for a certain amount of payment, e.g. interest in resources similar to that produced in Alaska by oil resources. There's only one payment a year, so please, here's a dealer you can use for anything. Travel is limited, so it is not quite comparable. There are a few things I can see when I read the bill. As of now, 1st. it shows that this is an introduction from the government to individuals 18 years of age or older using the Icelandic social security number. Now I wondered, " Is it not normal to consider families in this and also children, since they are part of the costs to be used in this travel support? ' It was mentioned in the discussion mentioned earlier when it came to the idea that a travel - service company might bring an offer for the children, i.e. something free from the use of travel. It might be a good solution, but not necessarily a solution, it would be in the hands of the companies to import and keep it. I think people should also be concerned about children in particular about this bill. The biggest case I'd like to talk about this bill is personal protection. Like I said in answer to what. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson is, like, the highest. Minister said not to collect personal information. But there will be personal information with this. This is a specific cycle where the government makes a gift letter for all who are involved with a smartphone program that has access to a huge amount of information to begin with. This may be dangerous. However, it is linked to each letter of gift and to the use of it and to the management of the company that is free of the official gift letter. There is a ring about who uses each gift letter and for what purpose. There are some kinds of information that can be collected, not necessarily from individuals, but from income, e.g. What do people use during first income and second - income travel journeys? Does it provide the travel, mainly use it for food or such? There may be interesting information that may be tempting to stretch in. But there is no discussion in the bill on how to handle such information. As I'm saying, it's not a direct collection of information, it's information that simply comes into existence. I feel that there is no law on this subject, and the committee may be about it. I also made comments against the minister on Article 3. it makes a distinction between companies. In 1st. the conditions are listed, there are firms with a valid license of a travel agency under III. Chapter of a Travel Office, No. 96/2018, as well as other permission from the Association, Health Committee, etc. In the 3rd. says that an enterprise in trouble on December 31, 2019, but not January 1 or November 1, or something like that, can only get a total of 25 million of this travel while other companies can get 100 million. It is likely unlikely that they will reach it, considering that there are only 1.5 billion to distribute. But it's interesting to see how it turns out, for example. ...preservatives. If there's a company that owns a number of subsidiary companies, does it matter to each daughter's company or even not to their partners? Is there a situation or distinction between enterprises that are in conflict on December 31, 2019, and those who were not in trouble then? This makes discrimination. Why make this distinction between these enterprises? Two. does not need to be given to the taxpayer, as this is an appropriate opportunity to give up the gift. However, worth tax may have to be returned from what is then purchased. After all, there are about 1,200 cells. which returns itself in a valuable tax that reduces the amount produced by the tax cost. The height is 5,000 k. For each consumer, but for a government fund, it is only less; there is a total cost of about 1.1 billion. At the same time as I'm asking about the difference between the companies in trouble and those who are not, I'm asking about new companies. Are there other conditions in this regard? If people want to seize this opportunity because of this travel process, make a company that takes special calls in some way, is it normal if this is to work back some kind of structure, or is it just fine? It would probably be easier for a company who was in trouble just to lie down and maybe start a new business and have access to 100 million if that were possible. Is it going to end up in the law bill that has been submitted for social security travel? I don't know. Maybe it's not a good time question there, i.e. it would take too long to complete the collapse process of the older company, but the new company would have started, the social security protocol would not be effective before the advice was made. There are a remarkable number of factors that we need to consider in this regard. I asked the highest. Ministers in return on the connection to the partial improvement pathway regarding transparency in this bill. It depends on how much of each enterprise can get from this travel process, especially from a business problem. Then it should be relatively reasonable to publish how much of the company's companies got, just for a specific checkup. You've heard by the part-saving process that there are some companies on the list that have been published, where people scratch a little in their heads and ask themselves, " Is this business really there? What challenges did they face? Golf clubs, for example, don't you think there's an awful lot of space between people on golf courses? Should they not be able to keep their distance and continue playing golf? I don't know what it was like. I don't think this time of year was much played golf. Why, then, were golf clubs in trouble at exactly this time? Apparently, they did not have much to do with business. There was some steelsmith on the list, I don't know if she was selling a lot of steel to tourists. There may be other reasons. There are these strange companies on the list, and you ask yourself: " Is this normal for the objective of the state support we're offering? So these questions need to be asked. We're using public funds to strengthen certain companies in travel services. Then we and other tourism companies will definitely want to know if there are any companies that are not involved in the tourism services that are using them. New companies that have formed and then do nothing more than work around these trips, would they fall under this bill? There is certainly a limited list in pars. which has a valid monitoring warrant for a valid travel agency, a business permit for restaurants, beds and entertainment, etc. How open is this and easy access to that record? That's a good question to ask. Monitoring works this way, the open, transparent, or self - surveillance, so to speak, that the market could at least have the opportunity to monitor itself for e.g. That's it. If anyone's cheating on their strength, it's gonna get to everybody else. The taxpayers suffer, too, after all. This is a very interesting matter, I have to say it, and I like to try it as it's suggested here. But because this is new, there are some things that need to be considered and to ask questions. The answer to that question may be that we are testing various things. That could be a perfectly good answer, an excellent answer when we're trying things for the first time. We'll see how it works. But that is why it is also good to have the first questions asked so that certain abuses can be kept under control during the decision. At any rate, abuse can be prevented during the runoff. That is why it is vital to ask the questions that have come up in the discussion right now. Other than that, I wish a minister a success with this case, for I hope it will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u98	A respectable president. At the end of my first talk, I mentioned a point I had planned to complete in that talk that did not last, the time that I feel is important to bear in mind about this and similar matters. This bill's stated aim is to increase demand, increase consumption. As I said in my first speech, I'm in favor of the bill. But it is a mark of a very interesting time in which we live that we now fight behind our back and back of our struggle to increase consumption and to increase demand for the economy. What's so strange about it is that before a Covid-19 pandemic, the problem was that we had to do what was best; reduce the consumption, reduce demand in a number of ways. This is why climate change is happening. We are faced with a pretty ironic problem. We need to do things we should really look for ways not to do. The reason I mention this now, a respectable president, is because sooner or later this crisis will end, hopefully sooner than later, hopefully this year, perhaps the next. Then, in my opinion, there are extreme economic hardships, historical economic hardships, which are by no means clear how we are going to recover. At the same time, there is a global market price on oil in history. One of the best things to be done to fight climate change in my mind was in 2008, when oil prices went to the highest altitudes. That, in my opinion, was very positive. Buying gasoline cost a lot of money, and all kinds of things became expensive. The result was bad, certainly bad side effects, but it resulted in total vitamin injection into all new technologies, green technologies, and technology to combat climate change and to reduce its impact. I don't see how the same thing will happen when this crisis is over. Besides, I don't see how we can get a lot of these ways to solve our problems every time because when this crisis is over, the climate problem comes back, which is overwhelming and terrible to say no more. The ways we need to look at, instead of asking how to increase our consumption and demand, are how to increase prosperity or at least maintain prosperity without increasing demand, without increasing the so - called economic activities. This is the challenge, a respectable president, because economics do not really respond well. Economics assume that money is used to measure valuable things in some way. It is not necessarily clear whether there is any other way to cross your head. That's why economics do this. I'm not trying to downplay economics by it. I'm just wondering how we're going to stay in the economy and hold on to the good modern life when the Covid-19 epidemic is over and we're going to have to fight climate change again, without reviewing what it is we call worthwhile. For example, if a person at home repairs his computer instead of taking it for repair, the same increase in value has taken place. But by taking her to repair, she helps turn the business around. It's not old wisdom. I'm not the first man to point this out, it's been often done. This is a certain irony, a measure of error in my opinion, which we have not so far had to deal with in the economic sense, mainly as a bite between so - called left men and right men. But I just want to say that this is the question we have to deal with when the epidemic stops. Then the bills won't do. We need to change how we think about things. With that in mind, I reiterate my support for the bill right now, because I don't have the solution ready. I just thought it was important to keep this up because I'm worried that the climate change would submerge and that even in time we could get past this epidemic and, a respectable president, we can't do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u99	Mr. President. I bring here an opinion of a bill for a law on the Scholars' Education Fund, a greater part of the General and Education Committee. The committee was contacted by a number of people. A lot of stories came along, and the personnel of the Ministry of Education and Culture were tireless to answer the questions of the Committee, as well as the Ministry of Economics and Economics. I'd also like to thank Pétursson Ingi, the deputy of the advance attorney, who was formerly the spokesman for the case, for his great work. The objective of the bill is also. to promote the support of students, to promote a better course of study, and to create a more righteous and modern educational loans. The bill includes a full set of student loans and scholarships and is designed to replace the Icelandic loan fund, No. 21/1992. In other words, the bill does not suggest a new fund; it is merely a change of its name to reflect an improved student loan system. The elderly loan system will remain a division within the education fund until it runs its course. Seven years ago, on the forward bill. Two. The bill is about a staging loan. In the treatment of the case, it made comments that the bill is suggested to implement the implementation of forward loans in a manner comparable to that of the Icelandic Board of Education, i.e. ... thatlabundant management is committed to a more precise analysis of operations in distribution regulations. A basic advance has been too low to this point, allowing students to be in a job market while studying in order to earn a living. As a result, students' income is often higher than a fund set out to reduce academic loans and even greater academic work that thus causes a specific cycle of gambling. The majority agree that it is urgent to deal with the above, making sure that the amount of money paid is actually a means by which students can support themselves. The majority indicates that 2 mg. 2.g. it should be noted that a student's stipulation loan is sufficient to cover the general cost of living in Iceland during studies taking into account family size and living. It is the obligation of fund management to determine a stipulation loan so that it is truly effective for students. The majority do not consider a reason to suggest a change in the terms of the bill because of the above, but rather consider that further distribution of the distribution rules remains to ensure flexibility to update the decision to forward under each circumstances without the need for correction. The majority, however, stresss that fund management will make a decision on the amount of living loans in a way that ensures that the two - mg requirement is established. 2.g. is met. Moreover, a greater proportion points out that a minister sets out the distribution rules and distribution of student loans, as shown by 36. par, but the board of directors includes... A representative of the students. Comments were made on the fact that the student's loan should represent a maximum of 420 ECTS units, or their value, but not to a minimum, as 2 mgr. Section 4. The majority of the above loans are equivalent to seven years in studies with a total of 60 ECTS units per year and are consistent with the credit rights in other countries. In this case, the majority of the funds are considered to be the right of students to borrow for one year's Ph.D. in addition to the above loans and suggest changes in word at 3 mg. Section 4. that's why I'm here. 3 mg. Section 5. it should be noted that a study organized with a job does not prove to be loanable for forwarding. In the treatment of the case, it was noted that the directive could counteract educational and cultural procedures for remuneration but it was important that teachers be able to apply for progressive loans while working together. The majority of these measures are not affected by the provision, since a teacher's schooling is not considered to be a educational program that is organized at the same time. They concluded that the law was not clear enough about the type of study and the type of loan. In order to enhance its clarity, the majority contributes to the changes in part - time education, such as a study planned for concomitant work, which is only loanable to school fees, as 3 mgr. 2.g. Eight. is a general requirement that students must meet in order to have the right to study. One condition is that a student does not accept assistance from another state because of borrowing, as is 5th paragraph 8. In the handling of the matter, a comment on the need to keep the strength from a foreign country to an outstanding student did not impair the rights of those who are then being helped by local students. In the bill's report, study aid is defined as a student's loan, a child's advancement strength, a cut - down on parts of student loans at the end of the study, and a number of applications. So the majority feel that it is clear that because of learning success, support from another state does not fall there, but suggests a change in wording for 5th paragraph 8. that's why I'm here. According to 3 mg. Section 12. it is a taxpayer's duty to provide student education or student loans with information on borrowers needed to carry out the law, including information on the income of creditors and the spouse's income and the borrower's parents when appropriate. The government taxpayer's review made it clear that it puts an extensive information obligation on the governor of the tax, who could be opposed to the confidentiality of the office under the legal law on income taxes, No. 90/2003. Then it would be unfortunate for a education fund to evaluate the information needed for the act of the law without any compromise. The majority points out that the review of the Federal Protection and the Ministry's memo shows that the Ministry of Education and Culture sought the Agency's comments on the bill's contract and that Perone Protection has turned in more careful comments and if the Ministry responded to the comments made. At that time, the commission received a detailed additional statement by Peritoneal Protection, due to comments at 3 mg. Section 12. The majority of the data indicates that according to the 3rd issue, 4 mg. Section 12. to be treated with personal information obtained by applications for student loans or applications for extensions, or due to the actions of the law in other ways, ensure that the laws on identity protection and processing of personal information and rules established on their grounds are met. This will depend on the development of personal information on the education fund of students or on the fact that it is being carried out in connection with the purpose of this work according to the standards of the bill. Thus, the law does not contain unbounded sources of authority to obtain personal information from the governor of state tax. So the majority believe that the laws of the law are in accordance with the laws and laws of personal protection. Moreover, the more part shows that those who work in the fund are bound with the obligation of silence, as is 33 C.E. The handling of the matter focused mainly on the growth of student loans in terms of insurance loans, according to Article 17. and inaccessible loans, according to Article 18. In both cases, interest should be varied based on interest rates offered on the market by the state's funds, as well as a solid interest burden, which takes into account the consequences of student loans reimbursement. That's 3 mg. 17 and 3. 18th par. The bill assumed that three members will review the reasons for the growth of prices loans over 4% and the growth of unsecured loans over 9% and suggest possible changes. The committee made a strong criticism of this arrangement. Then it would be an unpredictable reimbursement for an unwanted reimbursement. Furthermore, according to Article 3. 17th par. and 3 mg. 18th par. failure to achieve a direct outcome in such situations would result in changes. The majority feel that despite the fact that the growth of student loans may vary, they need to be careful that they do not run too high. So rather than stipulation a special committee in certain circumstances, the majority suggest that there will be a clear provision for change to be made that there will never be more than 4% of the retailed loans and that there will be no more than 9% in the interest of those who are disloyal. In addition, there was a view of the need for education on borrowing borrowers in view of their choice of securable and irresponsible loans, such as 3 mg. Section 16. The majority point out that it is often the first loan a person takes over his life and that it is directed to the Ministry of Education and Culture to ensure the availability of students for clear guidance, e.g. in the area of the treasure, and in vain counselling. In 1st. Twenty-niner. is suggested to start one year after the end of the study for reimbursement. Several sources suggested that reimbursement would begin over a longer period of time, but it was also shown that the term "readend of the study " needed further explanation. The majority of dishes to other North countries are generally reimbursed in a way that begins at the latest year after the end of the study. The majority consider that the year is an appropriate time in this context and points out that if there are significant changes in the quality of borrowing, reimbursement can be applied to specific conditions, such as 23. Then the more part will suggest the change to the 2nd issue of Article 1. Twenty-niner. that the Board of Education will be assigned to define the term study end in distribution rules as well as to suggest similar changes in 4 mg. Section 16. In 1st. Twenty-one. it is suggested that borrowers be allowed to choose to repay student loans with income connections before or during that year at 35 years of age. In the treatment of the matter, this arrangement was subject to careful consideration, and age was primarily critical, including the following: based on the fact that they were discriminated against and without the opportunity to study until later in life. The Ministry reports that the work of the bill was followed by a wide range of scenarios. In most cases, it would be more likely that a student's loan would be fully paid to the age of 65 if the borrower suitable a reimbursement in that year when he was 36 years of age or younger. It was noted that more than 70% of those who graduate from college are 34 years of age or younger. The greater part points out that the principle under the bill is that student loans will generally be reimbursed and loan paid by monthly reimbursements. Thus, tea - related payments are exceptions to that principle. A greater estimate of the share is that it is desirable to limit access to reimburse money-related payments so that capitals can be offered at an option above the head. The majority further indicate that, according to the bill's cost assessment, despite more fixed payments, the pay period is expected to be shorter, including because of the chance of borrowing a portion of the loan, he completed his study at an appointed time that would benefit most of his credit recipients. This adds to the fact that borrowers over 35 years of age have children's rights as well as those of others who are strong. According to financial and economic records, constant loans of student loans will increase the pay loads of low-payers and women usually have less pay than men and more part-time jobs. The Economic and Economic Ministry thus points out that there is a risk of a negative effect of 1 mg. Twenty-one. on women. The majority of the women who complete after 35 years of age have taken a special study, but according to educational and cultural background information for the course of 2018/2019, women were 71% borrowers over 35 years of age. The Department's information includes women who graduate in the 35th year or later and who have a low salary or part - time job, though a significant variation, or about 0.2% of all borrowers. In spite of the particular group, the greater the share, in view of the social equation of the student loan system and the risk of unwanted peripheral effects, is to be especially careful about the effects of 1 mg. Twenty-one. to this group, direct to the Ministry of Education and Culture to investigate his position on the review of the law. In the treatment of the matter, 20th par. The bill, mostly the 3rd. which says that if student loans were not fully paid in that year, borrowers nearly 66 years of age are permitted to repay the loans. It was noted that there is a very burdensome alternative that will likely take on those who are in an economic state. The bill's report and the Ministry reports that the bill's core priority is that borrowers repay student loans by the age of 65. This is less social benefits because later educated individuals in their lives, as well as loans made to individuals over 60 years of age, pay little back and are, in fact, largely strong. At the same time, it is noted that a person taking a student's loan, e.g. About 60 years old, it is known that he has less time to repay. The majority point out that student loan is a social equation that has the responsibility of ensuring access to education regardless of the economy. This is a burdensome authority, which the greater part feels is not entirely compatible with the role of student loans. However, a greater proportion agree that it is undesirable for individuals to take a student loan that they may know will not last their lives to pay at the expense of other creditors. The majority of these points out that there is a warrant that should be used with careful consideration for the payment of student loans, the amount of loans obtained, and the general opinion on average. More than that, 20th parr. to improve new paragraphs that financial management, when the borrower has reached 66 years of age and has not paid his loan fully, making temporary agreements on loans to borrowers, is difficult for him because of his social problems, such as health issues, financial difficulties, or for other comparable reasons evaluated by fundal management. Such agreements should be reviewed regularly and at least every six months. Head management is obliged to introduce creditors who have reached 66 years of age and who have not fully paid off the possibility of such a contract. If there is continued difficulty with the borrower, and the management feels that his situation is in such a way that he is unable to pay the loan's head position or part of it, the board shall write down the head position of the borrower in part or in all respects. Subscriptions are required that borrowers have kept the contract for at least one year. The fund management board shall measure further on the conditions and implementation of the contracts and off-limits in distribution regulations. If the fund is to be canceled in part or in all respects, it is to be paid from a government fund, not into the interest rates of student loans. For the Committee, it was the opinion that a warrant should be extended to apply for a reimbursement of student loans as stated in Article 23. The bill. The majority indicates that 6 mg. Section 8. a law on the loan fund of Icelandic students provides a more comprehensive source for the management of the fund to allow payment, such as unemployment and child care. The majority estimate is that they are reasonable, suggesting that a fund of government be granted a comparable authority and is in the law of the Icelandic loan fund, as well as that it must be permitted to give annull for birth, for birthal access, or if a child is taken into permanent foster care of certain conditions. According to Article 1. Thirty-four. The education fund is permitted to borrow from the bank loans of the state funds to finance loans to the creditors. Two. Thirty-four. it says that a education fund is permitted to pay on such loans without additional expenses. In the handling of the matter, the Committee discussed whether such an arrangement carries too much risk for a trust fund. A financial and economic memo to the Committee says that the law carries a risk for state funds because of failures in the length of loans made by the State Fund and the deposit of state funds on the market. Most of the commitments made by the state's funds are inexpensive, resulting in conflict. Experience shows that there is an important need for reimbursement management. For this reason, the greater portion is suggested at 2 mg. Thirty-four. and that reimburse authority is subject to financial and economic approval. If such a warrant is approved, reimbursement will be directed in consultation with the Ministry. In view of the greater part, the change is to minimise the risks of state funds due to reimbursement of education on loans from the state's budget. The 1st matter. The provision for temporary II is a review of the breakdown of responsibilities on student loans in the old laws and conditions for such delinquency. One of the conditions is that borrowers are not borrowing. In accordance with the government's actions on changing student loans, a greater proportion is expected to be removed and sufficient to be paid back by the Icelandic loan fund for the loss of responsibility. The 2nd issue, 1st. it is stipulated that the responsibilities of student loans in the sole of the population of the dead fall to the realization of the criteria 1. A review of the case revealed that the question was clear. The provisional principle applied only to responsibilities in which responsible men are individuals or to the responsibilities of financial companies as well. Over the years, some of the students who were unable to obtain a responsible person have consulted financial companies and have presented bank responsibilities to guarantee student loans. The majority believe that the same conditions apply to financial and individual responsible declarations and therefore suggest a change to the 2nd issue of Article 1. provision for temporary II of this material. According to 1st mg. Twenty-one. borrowers may choose to reimburse student loans with income connections by a previous or during the year when they are 35 years old. The majority of the data shows that high school student growth is a potential consequence of the economic effects following the Covid-19 pandemic which could lead to some changes in the composition of the student group from the time the bill was composed. In this regard, the greater part refers to the government's intention to enable colleges to face this increase, focusing on learning methods for a particular workforce group. Special efforts must be made to meet the needs of qualified personnel in the sub-settial sector. In view of the above, it is possible that older students will begin their college course at a later stage. For this reason, the greater part takes the right to meet the group and temporarily suggest that those starting the course of 2,2020/20233 have the option of repaying income - repair loans, they complete studies before or during the year when 40 years of age are reached. This will direct the majority to the Ministry of Education and Culture to review the effectiveness of the bill review and to see if there is a basis for its extension or change in 1 mg. Twenty-one. Prime Minister, in agreement with Education and Culture Ministers and Economic and Economic Ministers, appointed a team in 2018 to review rules of reimbursement of student loans. The group was appointed in the field of public debates. The government introduced on April 15, 2020, that the proposals of the work group in addition to the measures that have already been introduced to support collective agreements would be implemented. The task is to reduce the growth of student loans from 1% to 0.4%, decrease in credit rates, discounts from student loans, and declines the responsibilities of student loans taken before 2009. The decision on the growth of student loans is made by the government, to propose a Minister, according to Article 5. 7. a law on the loan fund of Icelandic students. In accordance with the above mentioned, the greater part contributes to the addition of new provisional regulations that required the reduction of income-related payments and the discount of student loans, as per the following discussion. In 1st. Section 8. A law on the credit fund of the Icelandic student states that the annual reimbursement is determined in two ways. On the one hand is fixed payment, collected in the first part of the year, irrespective of income or additional payment that is collected in the latter part of the year, depending on the income of the previous year. It is suggested that there are temporary additions to the provision of additional loans, revenues of the old law, according to a percentage of the annual income markets ahead of the year's refund. The change is intended to reduce the amount of income-related loans made by student loans. The proposal is in accordance with the recommendations of the above groups and is intended to be met by the Protestant Alliance in the preparation of collective agreements. It is established that the government, at the recommendation of the Ministry of Education and Culture, has decided to reduce the rate of student loans taken in the old law from 1% to 0.4%. The above suggestions will make it possible for annual reimbursement of student loans to reduce interest costs. But the pay period of student loans remains similar before and after adjustments. For details, see the Committee. Mr. President. Then there is a provision to provide loans to student loans that were taken earlier if student loans are paid in excess of legal bills or fully borrowed. The discount should reflect the general benefit of the system because loans are paid faster than others. The percentage of discounts should thus be determined by the student's posts; however, it should not be less than 5% and not exceed 15%. It is estimated that the proportion depends on the loan posts where high levels of academic loans call for expensive wax payment, i.e. that the loans are likely to collect over long periods of time and perhaps not fully. The goal is to encourage and speed up the reimbursement of such loans. The discount should be calculated from the amount of subsidies that, as a result, reduces the discount. For example, a loan with 1 billion posts. K. The borrower wishes to pay off the loan and receive a 5% discount. The borrower will have to pay only 950. K. and the loan is considered to be finished. In this regard, we find a more detailed guide in the calculus of this article, and the examples illustrate. Mr. President. It's rarely what you talk to, but it's happening here today. I'm going on: Clearly, the bill involves large changes in the learning and learning skills system. There are many uncertainty regarding the recording of a new system, e.g. as in terms of government risks, as is later attributed to this. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict how a new system will benefit different social groups, despite the fact that a new system will benefit most people better than the present system. In addition, it is clear that circumstances in society are very different now because of the Covid-19 pandemic than when the status of the fund was assessed in the processing of the bill. In spite of the above, the greater part feels that the bill becomes a law where it includes the need for changes in the learning and learning system, which is more supported by students and righteous systems. In order to match the above uncertainty factors, the more part is suggested to add to the bill to the provisional requirement that a total review of the law and its implementation be carried out three years from the time of the Law. It is suggested that the Ministry of Education and Culture introduces the results of a full review no later than the 2023 fall. Chapter 6 of the report with the bill on impact assessment can be found at the national expense assessment of the bill. In the treatment of the situation, the greater part was concerned about the evaluation and requested the position of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to do so. The financial and economic news reports that it did not provide its own expense assessment, but it does not comment on the available costs of the Ministry of Education and Culture on the basis of the basis otherwise than that the Ministry has not shown as much increase in budget management as the evaluation would expect. In the treatment of the case, the financial and economic services had considerable evidence of the impact of the bill on the terms of the budget, such as the management and risks of state funds. The majority do not consider any reason to suggest changes in the terms of the bill's directives, but it says that if the bill becomes legal, it is particularly necessary to consider the cost of operating at the academic education, the uncertainty of the cost assessment, and the implementation of financial funds on budgets. The cost assessment with the bill is expected to result in an additional $ 175 million additional cost of state funds from the fund. K, including 25 million. K. stock costs during the first year, followed by 150 million. K. Each year thereafter, but it does not show what is really behind the increase. A memo published by the Ministry of Education and Culture states that include: the explanation that the fund's work will increase and it can be assumed that the need to increase the number of employees around approximately 15 people. The majority stress the careful assessment of the cost of operating, but the current cost of operating at the Icelandic loan fund is already considerable. The majority of costs are based on films that could change and that there is some uncertainty. The majority of students and children lead to uncertainty, the percentage of school fees, the number of graduates, and the loans. At that time, the growth roof that the majority contributes to the growth of the state's expenses may be deemed unlikely, but under the present circumstances, it is unlikely. In addition, there seems to be no means of recruiting funds. The loan fund has been a B-party institution, but if it's an A-party institution, as it may be, it has to be considered on the impact of debt regulations and state funds. In addition, the more part points out that the bill's sponsorship will be estimated to be about 61.7 billion. over the next few years and there you are scheduled to be paid for your future commitments. At the expense point, it is expected that the loan will be self-sustained with the related growth and growth burden, as well as that the old loan part is well funded that no further financial payment is necessary. The greater part points out, however, that in budgets for 2020, estimated payments in the credit card section of Icelandic students were 4.6 billion dollars. In 2021 and 5.8 billion years. in the year 2022. Thus, the cost estimate assumes more money than is planned for financial management. The greater part has then suggested that in the new provisional terms the government's actions, which have been regarded for the present 14 billion dollars, be determined. These measures influence the basis for the cost of the estimate, but costs for making financial contributions to the fund at the time of the bill. The majority stress that the above factors will be considered by the Ministry of Education and Culture in consultation with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. If so, it is important that the transfers between the funds be made in close cooperation with the above advisers. Finally, the more part shows the importance of reviewing the cost of the law, which the greater part suggests to be performed within three years of the implementation of the law. In addition to the changes that have been explained in the Committee's list, there are several legal modifications. Sets the greater proportion of the bill to be approved by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under the opinion of the above mentioned publications, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunnersdótttir, Páll Magnússon, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir, Birggis Birgir of Ármannsson, and Árnadóttir Kolbrún Aarnadótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u100	A respectable president. In my opinion, and others, there is one of the main points when it comes to redesigning support systems to students, whether the loan levels were sufficient for alimony. There was quite a talk at the meeting of the committee, and they often spoke up about it to the reporters. Hv. The majority of things have not responded well enough to my opinion, as indicated by my committees and others who returned to such activities. But in view of what happened, I was wondering. The senator mentioned, and the committee's opinion, whichever. A senator likely believes that changes will occur in the manner of education because of the lack of material adjustments on the basis of what is to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I find it hard to predict what is going to be done. But as the senator said, progress was discussed considerably in the committee, but perhaps not sufficiently in his opinion. I've read the senator's opinion of the committee, and his concerns are very well considered there. But as noted in a greater committee program, we pondered these matters and agreed that we wanted to maintain our flexibility by not wearing a regular centenarian number. But we specifically insisted that the move had to be so that people could survive it. I think there's something that the fund management decides when it comes to, and then maybe it's something that's going to be considered by the law in three years when we'll see what the basis is and how this new system is going to prove and what the cost of it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u102	A respectable president. This is where I find the lawgiver very damaging to his will. There is no need to place a specific cent on the law. There are some criteria, such as. those that both 1st and 2 smaller things have suggested. Although wording is a little different, the idea was the same, i.e. stressing that this is really going to be enough for alimony. It's funny, though, when the Council says that the loans are supposed to do enough but does not want to change anything that already has very long experience and is absolutely clear that progress is not sufficient. There's a contradiction I see. I think the Council has to take action, make some changes if it's to live with the wish that I think all members of the council are arguing that they can do it. I don't understand what it is about the statement on the committee opinion or about the new bill that should alter what already has already been experienced, that it is not enough for alimony. It's clear that this is not enough for alimony, and I don't see any evidence that it will change in three years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u103	A respectable president. I think me and what. A senator fully agrees that there is a turning point bill that significantly improves the study loan system in general and is much better to meet people in many ways. As the senator knows, this large issue has been under way for at least ten years and twice in advance of other governments. So we've come a long way, and I think we've got a really good bill. In the majority opinion, it says, with permission of presidents: The ◆ The moiety indicates that 2 mg/m2 is present. 2.g. it should be noted that while taking into account family size and living, a student's stipulation loan is sufficient to cover the general cost of living in Iceland. It is the obligation of fund management to determine a stipulation loan so that it is truly effective for students. This is a decision. I think it's a good decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u104	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. I'm not going to go into the sponsoric system like that in answer, but I'll be there in a talk afterwards. I'd like to ask you what. To the financial cost of the fund, as stated here, there will be 175 million in the first year and 150 million in the future. Or, as the committee says, with the permission of a president: We have a memo from the Ministry of Education and Culture as well as the Department of Education and Culture. .................................... 15 persons So I want to ask you why. Or is this just a clean addition to employees for the quality of the loan fund or some future education fund? This is an incredible growth in employees. Was there a diagnosis of this expense to the Committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, it's a lot of money, and we talked about it, the more part of the Committee. The answers given to the Ministry on this amount are, as the evidence shows, that the number of employees needs to be increased by at least 15. The increase is because with the new arrangement, the fund's information obligations are growing, because there will be both insured and irresponsible loans, as we have seen. In part, there is also a strengthening system, so there will be a very large increase in information and individualised counseling and borrowing services. Part of the increase in staff is explained by the increase. It was discussed on the committee, and this is the information we received from the Ministry. But it also shows in the opinion of the greater part that this needs to be examined when the fund has a operation and we see how it all comes out. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It's a bit off the record, I think, in terms of the staff needs. I checked the annual reports from 2011 and 2017 of Icelandic students. Both of these years, the number of employees was listed as 28 people. Today, 35 employees are listed on the website of Icelandic students. If they are increased by 15, 50 workers will be doing tasks that 28 employees would be able to cover the loans in 2011 and 2017. I just can't believe in the modern environment that it calls for doubleing the number of employees, almost 100%, to be held in the arms of insured and irresponsible loans. It can't resist a sense of reason. I wonder what. An authority does not consider it necessary to distinguish this point between 2 and 3. So we know what we're accepting here, because now we're looking at this 150 million cost each year, a 5% interest requirement, this is a three billion single-change operation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u107	A respectable president. It is rather quite simple for the senator to say that the explanation for this increase in workers is simply because on offer there will be a guarantee and security loan. As I went to a marathon speech earlier, the fund's work is increasing, in line with the changes being made, as it has been done. We bring many new references. to strengthen a child's family and to fold a head chair at the end of a study at the right time. The individual situation, e.g., should be taken into account. student wind and more parts. The analysis by the Ministry of Education, which the Committee called for, is that, in view of the project that will come in and these changes, it calls for this number of employees who cost this money. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u108	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for the speech. It is a very large case, as noted in the case of the two. A senator, and a complicated, a little dozen, let's say. But I had the privilege of serving as a guardian. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson in one of these meetings was being discussed on this vast subject. What I was interested in was that all the guests brought in different comments, which merely shows how complicated and extensive this is. What was the most important thing in my life was when a representative of the Quantum Coalition came in and spoke of people not having to repay loans if they had an unfortunate accident that made them unable to take advantage of their studies. [[The president calls.]] I want to start by asking, since time is a little different than the clock indicated at the beginning, if anything was done to respond to these comments of the Quantum Community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have to admit that I haven't been on this great committee for weeks and I've had to have very fast hands putting myself in this huge case. I've read the review of Iceland's Institute of Environment and it describes a measure of concern, as the senator went over it. Hv. A senator is, I think, to speak of 13. G., about the course of study, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u110	... then you're in an accident and you can't use...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u111	Yes, there are certain requirements for a course of study. But I believe that, as the case is over now, these tips from the Micro-Lowing Alliance are met, so people are viewed individually. An accident or serious illness should not prevent a person from meeting the requirements for a standard course of study. [[The president calls.]] However, these are special cases and will be taken into account according to the bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u112	A respectable president. I was referring to the reimbursement of student loans for studies that are no longer useful to the person because of an accident, so it is not in the study itself but when it is finished and it is due to be restored. I asked about it because I understand that there is a requirement to enter the law where the loan fund of Icelandic students is permitted to continue collecting loans, even after the person has been declared bankrupt. I wondered, " Is it so unfortunate that a person who has a serious accident who can no longer take advantage of his studies, even going bankrupt, whether at the bill anything prevents the loan fund of Icelandic students from pursuing disability to repay student loans from a school he cannot use anymore? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u113	A respectable president. I'm trying to get my hands on it. That's a lot of articles and a lot of points, so I hope I'm answering them. A senator on the right subject. It has to do with bankruptcy because of sickness or accidents. [[It's up to, like, 23.]] It's 23. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, The majority of them dealt specifically with this, yet several committee meetings were covered. It is the source of funds to provide reserves in special cases, so it is the red thread through the bill. [[The president calls.]] And that is why, as with the number of employees, is being changed by the system taking into account individual circumstances. [[The president calls.]] And that is also true.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u114	A respectable president. I thank you for your fine-looking marathon history. It's a complicated discussion, and I'm not going to be trying to complicate it very much, but I'd like to suggest if we could discuss between 2 and 3. About 13. that refer to a minimum resistance wind. It says, by permission of the president: Achieving this is a problem, in the opinion of the funds to study. And there are also some things that are not to be listed as such. I wondered if we can add to these refugees and immigrants who need to take an additional course in order to gain recognition at their previous study and fail to meet the minimum standard, whether it was entirely perfect. This is a tip from the Icelandic student relationship. [[The president calls.]] Is it not entirely possible for the committee to assume this between 2 and 3. ... awrong.?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u115	A respectable president. If I looked up 13. That's exactly what it says, by permission of the President: Achieving this is a problem, in the opinion of the management board, which can be considered as a matter of minimum learning careers. 1.mg. Based on disability, dyslexia, learning disability, serious illness, childbearing, or the temporary lack of full - time study under school procedures or for other similar reasons. It's not particularly about refugees, and I don't know if this discussion has been over and if it's done this way before my time on the Committee, so I don't have the guts to do it completely. But in view of the data available, minorities, and changes in my share, I believe that the discussion will continue with the Commission to be one of the points discussed. Then we'll come to some conclusion. Who she gonna be, I don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u116	A respectable president. I appreciate that. I'm sure we'll talk about this. There is something else that comes to mind now. In the bill it is said that borrowers over 35 should be the rights of children and that others should be strengthened. I wondered, " Is it not reasonable in this same spirit that those 35 years of age and older also have the possibility of paying back their loans directly? ' But that is not expected in the current bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. If I understood him correctly, he is wondering if there are no increases in the age range of income connections that can be reached above 35 years of age, as was originally suggested in the bill. The evidence shows, and the main basis for this new system is based on the fact that the loan should be completely sustainable, and then the state of government, with its funds, will enter the funding system. So it goes up and then borrowers don't have to pay too much money, so you can't stretch the income ties to 35 years of age, so it works out. But as noted in our committee party in the greater part, we decided, including Because of today's peculiar situation with Covid, to increase the age range to 40 years, this is a temporary provisional principle that will be taken up in the revision of the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u118	A respectable president. I recommend here the Committee's Article 1 of the General and Education Committee which consists only of the ones listed here, although, in fact, I have a news report earlier that others agree with me, which I am very pleased about. But first, I'm going to have to discuss the bill's case. As far as I'm concerned, it would have been possible to get a better coverage on the General and Education Committee. There were a number of things that the reporters went into that which was not addressed, in either the committee party of the greater part or in what I am moving here, and I haven't noticed it in somebody else's committee opinion. In fact, I have not been able to examine at least one of them with great depth because of the reasons I am also going to mention. I think it's a sign of a certain lack of ambition in Congress jobs in general that puts a lot of emphasis on boxing and putting matters through as quickly as possible. It's a big deal and a big deal. A lot of stakeholders sent in a lot of envelopes with a lot of suggestions, and I feel that the General and Education Committee just didn't talk enough about it, so I didn't vote to take it out at the time. The case was scheduled with remarkable features because overdoses had passed since the release of proposals and committees. But I can't just blame someone else, maybe you should have made comments about it. In fact, I put it in my own time, but it did not seem practical to deal with it. And then today, a conference is extended into the evening in order to finish the matter. As far as I know, I hope it is right that a assembly meeting is no longer conducted. 21 I am not close to being enough to discuss this matter, so I expect that the discussion will continue, for good reason. I'll mention it regardless of what it says on the bill itself. It's fine, it's a good bill. A fraction of 1st suggests that it is agreed on by changes proposed in a special Senate document. But I think it's important to mention this because I feel that it is a vice at the General how things are sometimes packed up, out of extraordinary ambitions, but in my opinion, it is not reasonable enough to the stakeholders who sent in all these suggestions. It's not until today, I'm not quite clear when, I was at meetings myself at that time, but sometime after noon, I think, and it's probably not possible that everyone in here or out in the community has had the opportunity to study them, even though I may have found that those who are concerned most probably did so. Whatever the case, I wish and hope that it will be okay to take the case further between 2 and 3. Then I would also like to suggest that people study my second and third minor opinion. I'd like to be the first to discuss the opinion of the greater part, but, basically, it's good. The suggestions there are positive in my opinion. The main thing I would criticize is that it doesn't take enough of the opinion that lived. One example is 12. Article 2, on information, the committee discussed this point and I will explain how 1st things contribute to dealing with them. A greater proportion also contributes to growth, which was very encouraging and is a positive change. The majority also suggested a change in loan currency, which is also a factor of 1st. And a postponement of a reimbursement, which was also a positive suggestion, and then some provisional regulations, which include smaller items. They're positive. In particular, there is the decision to raise the age of creditors who can choose to repay student loans with income - related payments from 35 to 40 years, which will be assessed when they become aware. The first thing I'd like to talk about in terms of my 1st section is the college advance. This is, in my opinion, the most important thing, and I really think it was, in fact, the fact that it wasn't done more. This came up many times and often comes up in the study loans and support systems for students, which is the simple thing that one would have thought would have been cleared up for the entire discussion: Should student loans be sufficient for alimony? Yes or no. I don't know anyone who answers that question no. There are members of Congress here, including some of them. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, who says, "Yes, this is enough for alimony. We now have experience with a certain law code and a certain body that operates according to that code, i.e. LIN, with the right of the law. We all know what that law is, and we know exactly how it feels. It's simply not good enough, a respectable president. A loan isn't enough for a living, and, of course, it's not controversial to me. In other words, that's a fact. Similarly, a vicious cycle occurs when students are forced - I underlined - is forced to work with their studies because of the fact that there are certain restrictions that cut the chance of students to borrow. As a result, students have to work even more by studying. Of course, it is not good enough, a respectable president, if the idea is to support students in the way they themselves want to do their own. The first memory item suggests a change of 2 mg. 2.g. The bill for a new lawsuit, as follows, on the permission of presidents: the cost of living should never be lower than the typical consumption criteria as determined by the Social Services Department's calculation of consumption criteria for homes in Iceland. This proposal came about after the memory of the 1st section examined how the legislation could be introduced to some kind of reference without directly attaching a fixed centenarian number. It turns out that the reference to the fund management of WIN has been so far in terms of basic growth or baseline, reminds me of that name, and that's different from the typical. The typical thing is higher. The minority, and others, of the opinion that being a student should not automatically judge you to poverty, although temporary, nor should students be able to attend without having to worry about financial matters, as shown by the management of the committee on the matter that it is very common. Many students have financial concerns, even extreme worries. That won't do, Mr. Honorable President. We're supposed to fix it. We fix it by leaving the loans in such a way that students can use them for further use. A respectable president. This is the main thing. I'm sorry it hasn't been taken, in my opinion, seriously enough of the greater part. This is the same legal development that has been in the past and the fund management has decided, which is not a single problem, unless we have experience that this is not gonna work out. We're supposed to try to fix it when we get the chance, and here's our chance. I would also like to mention that my second things have provided the same solution, although they are expressed in a slightly different way than in no other material way. Then I'd like to go to the intelligence of Article 12. The bill. There is another factor that could have been done a little better. There, the government tax manager was concerned that it would be an extensive information obligation to the government tax manager in which the office is required, despite strict confidentiality, to provide education or student loans with information on borrowers, which, in turn, may not be the best equipped to determine exactly who should be. This is most unfortunate, and sometimes institutions are made to appreciate something that is unfortunate for them to value themselves. A reduction of 1st contributes to a very simple change in what information it is that the head of the tax is obliged to provide education or to collect student loans, and this is about the income and income of a spouse and the parents of lenders when appropriate. The bill is only less clear in this regard. In the opinion of the committee, we could not see that there was any reason for the governor's charge to provide further information on this subject. We suggest that this is merely an invigorating spirit in this way, expecting that if there is a basis for it, there will be more discussions about this particular subject. A top-of-the-art Board of Education between discussions, and unless there are other applications on the 2nd or 3rd. Now, a respectable president, I try to keep it in the right order. They will be discussed only with regard to study levels. It is a positive step, in terms of a 1st memory, that the plan is to move away from a system that is entirely about loans and oversupplys to study, as the above supports the 1st smaller things. Although this arrangement may involve improvements, it must be seen that high interest is not needed to eat up the proceeds from the corrosion of the head position and that a student's work will be worse off. This underscores the need for interest on loans provided by the Benefits Fund. Hence, it is happy that the committee would suggest that interest be provided. Also, if students are forced to continue working as hard as they really do, they will not be overlooked by the 30% decline in headstone loans. This underscores the importance of enabling students to attend the study without having to work too hard to do personal and professionally. A smaller section also points to the fact that the requirements for learning are rather narrow and do not give the flexibility required by a large portion of students to complete study. Lectures need to complete a degree of test at the time of organized study, based on 1st. 14th par. have room to delay learning according to 3 mg. The same articles. The fact is, though, that having time frames inflexible and that they do not expect a wide variety of circumstances for students is working against the goal of the bill to ensure that those who fall under the law have the opportunity to study, regardless of economic and otherwise. By removing the rights of those who temporarily leave school for strength, their potential for returning to study is impaired. So my 1st section suggests that the specified time frames will be emptied. In terms of the loss of academic scholarship, clients have noted that the 30% off rate of academic loans proposed appears to be based on the financial resources provided by the legislature to the seminary so far. A similar discount in our neighboring countries is higher, to produce 40% in Norway. Part 1 agrees with the view that the Icelandic government should take pride in conducting a learning arrangement so that it will meet international comparisons, especially when it comes to our neighbors. Sets a smaller portion of 1st so that the share ratios are increased from 30% to 40%. It also increases the flexibility there, as stated earlier, in the b•d joints 4 in the transitional process of 1. smaller objects. This should be discussed with the paediatric population. The newcomers are in the bill that borrowers who accept loans receive the support of a child. The idea of this is that they students are no worse after school. This is a good change, but it was noted that not all people with a child in themselves would need such loans, but they would have a real need for this support because of children and could do it. So it suggests that a smaller portion of the loan will be adjusted so that instead of being paid credit, he will only have to have the right to a student's loan. So a student entitled to a student's loan can get this support because of children. One of the basic changes made with the bill is that credit rates are marketed, while students have the possibility of obtaining a scholarship in the form of decay at 30% of the head position. Although scholarship is a positive step, the market of loans cannot be overlooked as it can have a negative impact on the interests of students. With the change, uncertainty about the terms and remuneration rates increases, both directly linked to market growth and sources of funds to determine interest loads to cope with the losses of the fund. One of the main objectives of these changes is the ability to prevent losses from the loans of the fund. Putting this interest on the loans of Education is the responsibility of the loans made from the government to the students themselves and those who have completed their studies. This can have negative effects in the face of a financial crisis, as it is those who are going to sit down with the added trauma. In contrast, the change also has an unequivocal positive effect on the system as a whole, in that funding is more beneficial and it is easier to measure the results of the system. Likewise, students are greatly improved by whether they want to keep their loans in security or make them disloyal after school, but it is difficult to see how they could make that change without the market interest arrangements, at least in some way. According to the above, a smaller portion supports this fundamental change, but the importance of being closely monitored by the authorities for the influence of change. In this regard, many commentators pointed to the importance of interest, thus celebrating the 1st small part of the motion of putting such factors into place. Without such a roof, uncertainty about the future after study would become so overwhelming that it would have a major negative impact on the possibility and interest in study with the support of the Webster Fund, in terms of my share. In addition, income - related reimbursement was discussed. While a broad range of opinions were developed from sources, in view of the suggestion of the greater provision of the provisional terms, 1st smaller things do not suggest other changes at present, but supports the proposal of the greater part and the correct importance of the subsequent review of the change, especially in terms of the possibility of permanently making it. In particular, age increases from 35 years to 40 years, i.e. students who are able to make pay-offs. There is only 26. The bill shows that on an expiration requirement due to student loans, according to legal requirements on the exact conditions of the rights and on the law of bankruptcy for the duration of an expiration period and their rules of expiration are not for student loans. Advantages have noted that the law violates the principle of debt rights for equal demands, as well as the discrimination of creditors by type of debt, such as on loans or mortgages. Whether or not the bill complies with an equal rule 65. g. The constitution. A similar law is not found in the current legal code on the credit fund of Icelandic students and is, therefore, a new one. In a comment, we're 26. states that the purpose of the arrangement is that the requirements according to the student loans will be excluded from the regulations of 2 and 3 mg. 165. g. Act of bankruptcy. Cycles 2 and 3. 165. g. In 2010, after the collapse of the economy, new law introduced into bankruptcy, which, according to one report, goes down two years after bankruptcy unless the demands of the head of a special court of law are accepted. In order to obtain an expiration diagnosis in such a court case, it is necessary for the candidate in the case to show that he has special interests by breaking the expiration date and that it can be assumed that his claim can be carried out at a new date of expiration. The loan fund of Icelandic students has appealed to a number of such judicial cases to get an expiration mark recognized by borrowing borrowers, some of which have been appealed to the Supreme Court. In most cases, the Supreme Court has concluded that it did not acknowledge the expiration value, since it did not demonstrate that the quality of the loans was special in comparison with that of other lenders. In that case, the loan fund of the Icelandic government office would be run by the government's contributions, the same as it would have set 3 mg. 165. g. The law does not diminish the loan fund or any particular creditors from having to comply with the rules of the law. According to this, borrowers would not pay the price for the failure. It appears that the 26th chapter is about to be besieged. The bill has been inserted into the bill to strengthen the place of education in such lawsuits and to release the fund from 2 and 3 mg. 165. g. Act of bankruptcy. Implicit of the Court's Office, No. 1 smaller shares count unacceptable to borrowers of the rights given to them by law on changing bankruptcy laws. 142/2010, and believe that borrowers of the learning fund should have no less justice than others in the event that they will fail. Sets my 1st items for regulations of 26. The bill will be removed. In the bill, the Board of Education is entrusted with a large role when it comes to the management of the fund and further implementation rules apply to the various aspects of the operation, including for strategies, interest loads, reimbursement times, and learning future rules. Advertisers have noted that the performance and effectiveness of the fund as a social equation device can be influenced in important ways by the emphasis that governments once mold without the lawgiver's control. In view of this, section 1 reduces its view that there is good reason for further discussion on the subject of the bill before it becomes a law, but also the importance of assessing the effects of the law when it is established. In view of the above, 1st small section contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. A person here hoping that it would be clearly identified with all the adjustments found in that Senate document, yet he suggests that the audience read it independently, ending all that is to be important. There are some factors that follow this discussion. It's, for example. This maximum ECTS units of 420 plus doctor's study. They asked for a review of this. I read earlier today that my second episode had responded. I encourage senators to pay attention. The person standing here will certainly do so. At that point, it was pointed out in paragraph 13. No improvement was required for immigrants who need additional schooling to gain recognition in previous studies but who fail to meet minimum school requirements. The National Association of New York noted this, as well as comments on student loans for higher education, something that the person being present has not been able to get well enough for this particular coverage, but hope to remain quiet in the discussion of the council, of course, I'm referring to that. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. In this respect, a respectable president, I would like to reiterate my wish that the case will be considered in a better way between the 2nd and 3rd. In particular, I call for, if the more part is interested and thinks it is reasonable, to consider not only the adjustments made by what is said here, but also the 2nd smaller parts. Although there is something in common with these two minor opinions and adjustments, they do not agree completely. I noticed that the 1st smaller things react to things my second things don't do or vice versa. After a quick lecture earlier, I thought of uniting these two or at least discussing them better. As it happened before. The head of the Committee opinion of the greater part is to review this system after three years, and that is positive. I must keep here a brief number, a respectable president, about how I think we should view education basically. Of course, this song has been sung here several times. Education and the support of education are not something we should view as gifts of mercy. First, there is the loan system, something that we could completely debate over whether to be. A lot of people feel that this is not supposed to be a loan system. Rather, it is simply a sponsoric system. But we have this loan system and, in the wake of these changes, we have to realize that when we strike down a capital chair about 30% or 40%, as suggested here, we're investing in the future for the nation, for all Icelanders. It's not money that just slips into the pocket of some student who gets the money from the government. This is our future investment. Not many days ago, I gave a brief talk that the foundation of modern society is two kinds, science and international cooperation. Education is essential to both. In many parts of the world, education is viewed as a home, where the person receives a loan to buy a home for himself. We cannot afford to look at education in the same way, a respectable president, although some politicians believe that it is the greatest dream of all to have their own home, which is not right, by the time I remember, it's just another Ella. Education is to support as much as we possibly can get away with. We should not try to keep it under control by supporting it just enough that we need or believing that it is possible to do so, but should move forward. Therefore, 1st smaller items contribute to 40% demolition, this is done in Norway. And in view of my 1st, we should not be our great cousins and cousins inferior, or each other in Norway, but, contrary, we should try to be the best, try to be the best at something. Actually, it's more of a matter to me than that. Sometimes I feel that we're going to be the best at something. Couldn't we just be the best at education? Isn't that a bit cool? I think it's very cool. Now we will never completely agree on how we get there or what that involves. I think we would be far along if we were to agree on that. Despite many fine ambitions and fine qualities of this bill and majority opinion, I don't think that ambition is reflected in what I would have wanted to see, and I know that more people would have liked to see it in this important matter. Now I'm going to make my audience a favor, a respectable president, to finally finish my case, but overture my support of the case and rejoice that it will be revised. I repeat, once again, my wish that there be a better examination before it's accepted at the end of the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u119	A respectable president. I agree with you a little bit, and I don't agree with what you're saying. A senator said. First, I agree that education is an investment in the future. But at the same time, when we are investing in the future, the account has to work out. Hv. A senator spoke of, and it is said in his committee party that he wants to raise the State's strength from 30% to 40%. How much? That would be interesting to know. He also spoke of special strengths that could be applied as a result of child development. I can't quite figure out what the senator is doing up there. As the law sets up, there is, in fact, one system that is divided into two parts. We have a loan system, and people are borrowing under certain conditions. In my mind - this is no doubt going to be a part of the conversation - it is not possible to break it apart. Second, we have other systems, such as the child - reform system that meets people with children. At the same time, I raise this question to the senator: Does he have any idea how much that would cost? Let's assume that in theory, we'd just tear it apart and throw it in like this. How much? I'd also like to ask the senator about the presentation: The majority opinion now shows that it is important to stay flexible. At the same time, we refer to a fund management system where people can survive this development, which is a clear desire for a greater proportion of the committees to do so. I wondered, " How, then, could the senator see that the will of the council would be even clearer? ' How would the senator want to get this thing out of his system so that it would be even better? I strongly disagree with the fact that the greater part is ambitious. [[The president calls.]] I like the majority opinion very ambitious and kind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u120	A respectable president. I guess if you want to go further, you're just doomed to find the other one ambitious, that's all. Well, I'm not gonna be pacing about it. But to answer that question. A senator about the cost of child strength, I don't know. I hope we can find out more about 2 and 3. As I mentioned earlier, I did not vote to be taken out of the committee, including... because I felt that it was missing. It may well be the wrong idea, but it would be good for me to get reasons. Actually, a senator can be a good man, and I'll just think about it. With respect to the 303/40% change, these numbers are not available. I tried to get in it, but I couldn't find the numbers I could trust. On the other hand, the way I view it is that when we give this discount, we do so only in cases where a student has completed a proper course of study so that he is always strong. It's always an investment that's succeeded, in my opinion. The same is true of the fact that Norway is able to do this. Then I think, " Can't we be the best students in education, considering Norway? ' I think we can do it. But again, it's something I'd like to take a closer look at. In terms of the production and the fact that there is a clear desire for a greater part of the committee, I am simply not convinced, whether I accept my contract experience or not, that it would be sufficient. I don't think that'll do it. I think the law will remain as material as it is. I think the government will continue to make decisions about further implementation based on criteria that simply fail. I feel that there needs to be some change, some guidance, and my proposal is in the 1st sentence of the transition, i.e. to 2 mg. 2.g. In addition, the cost of living should never be lower than that at the standard consumption criteria as determined by the Ministry of Social Affairs. [[The president calls.]] Then there's a lower bottom of what the government can then build on, which I would hope it did, but I think that bottom is normal at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u121	A respectable president. Another thing I've settled on the senator's case, and he's repeated it here, is that he didn't feel that there was enough publicity on the committee. I just wondered, in the light of the history of the case, that now these are the 30-year-old laws that we are upcoming as a great demand and a great improvement that is being done. The matter was presented at a council both 2013 and 2016, where some coverage was given, and comments were taken into consideration. Then came the case to the General and Education Committee on November 5th. That was seven months ago. As far as I'm concerned, we've had nearly an entire session to discuss this matter carefully. Of course, the preceding issue was under government consultation, and it also worked together with a number of people, past and present, as the previous one says. I wondered: " What does the senator think is missing? In my opinion, we've made it a long way, and I don't think there will be any further because there are many reasons why the matter is very vague. We set up a revised law there, so it may be possible to make a realistic assessment after that time. But I'm surprised at the senator's comments that he doesn't feel that coverage has been enough. I might just want to hear more about what he thinks is missing, I completely disagree. There's another thing about Article 12. Now I've read reviews from Pernon protection. One is from December 11th and the other from May 19th. First, the bill is worked in collaboration with Perone Protection, allowing it to pass all laws on personal protection. So here, in the second review of May 19, it is quite clear that the law does not require a reexamination of the law, that this is completely in accordance with the law. [[The president calls.]] I disagree with that senator again. But it might be interesting to hear some additional additions to his personal protection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u122	A respectable president. As for the fact that the case in my opinion wasn't working well enough, I evaluate it over how much was left that we could have talked about more and possibly got better than we did. For me, nothing more is needed than that food. It does not matter when the matter was presented or how many meetings were held. Moreover, I see no better than that seven committees of the committee were kept for it materially. The first meeting is usually just a review thing, and it's fine. My assessment of whether the matter needs discussion is based on nothing but my position when it was suggested that it be taken out. I saw some things we could've talked about. Other committees disagreed, it was published. My attitude is based on my objective opinion of that. I also indicate that a complete review is made after three years. There are a number of opinions that can be reexamined, and I'm determined to do so. More than that, even if he wants to continue the matter, he agrees. I understand all ambitions, and I bear even. respect him, I'm just, with all due respect, a disagreement. Regarding Article 12. and the personal protection, it does not focus on legal matters, in terms of memory. I don't comment on the fact that the law works. It's just that it's not quite enough for me. I want these regulations to be as clear as they are, and I want them to be that most of them are not. For that the governor himself hath no difficulty concerning these things, which he ought to give them; and that the IN, which shall be a treasure, shall not be difficult for him also, it shall tell me enough. That's not a legal question. The question is, can we add the law? My answer is yes, and therefore it is suggested in part that the information given to the head of the state is required to submit to all that is needed to be clear, and the governor is not in a position to evaluate it from the law of Education when he receives a request to provide information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech. I'm going to step aside to a comment he makes in his committee party and about the right to student loans. Not long ago, the Ministry of Education came to our meetings and specifically reviewed these matters again and again. A senator here proposes a change. At any rate, I'd like to make sure of that, but I've called out if I don't completely understand this, i.e. If I go to school abroad, in a BA or BS school for three years or something, a glyco exam and then go on to master's school, if I have to come home two years apart. It was clear that it wasn't, I thought very clearly at our meeting. Here's what it says. A senator believes that a two - year break in education is needed before continuing. At any rate, I wanted to make it clear that I didn't understand it that way. For the other part of the same section in the cae. A senator, i.e. The conditions set, they match the conditions that are elsewhere in the North countries. Hv. A senator points out that the northern countries are left out there. But this is, from what I understand, historical nature, and is comparable to their legislation in the Northern states of the EEA. The North countries are proud to have these conditions, as we are here, and they have done to them. Icelanders and other northerns are expected to agree with this exception, as the bill is presented. I'm asking why. A senator would know if he understood this meeting different from me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u124	A respectable president. I find it quite often in the treatment of the Parliament on various matters that the understanding of a person, a ministry, or even a professional person is not in line with the text I'm referring to at any time. I thought that was the case right now. In the 9th. The bill, it reminds me, is presented at three- and-and-a-half-six. the number of individuals according to Article 10. ... they'redismissit. But when I read the law, in view of what we were told at this meeting, I didn't see that this was clear. So I proposed a change. Also, I would say that, in my opinion, there is no reason to have a 32 - and - a - half - a - half - year - old. the number inside if you have a 17 -2. count 9. are there anyway. In fact, since this is brought to my attention, I feel that at the Council in general, it is rather reasonable to let explanations be considered strictly correct, but it does not appear until a very long time and after much judicial matters. We sometimes reason that the people who read the law have the ability to go about it, try the system, and if something goes wrong, it may take years to go through the judiciary to get it corrected. It was the same thing I thought there. People who want to borrow don't have a position to put it to the test. So if there were to be a different interpretation of the Education, or if the student didn't think he had this right under the Law, then it would be the easiest to change it by changing 3,566. count in the terms of that entry in Article 10. so that it would be 1,666. the number and, therefore, would clearly apply to the population of Iceland and the rest of the northern population. In other words, this is an adjustment that I think is merely an improvement and can't interfere with the interpretation. A senator points out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u125	V.E.G. President. However, I would like to reiterate what is required by another part of this transition. If I understand why. A senator right then believes that a person needs to come home after three years of study to meet the residence conditions, i.e. Can't continue to pursue a master's education abroad. I didn't understand it that way. I think this is something we need to get an explanation so that we're all on the same page if we don't understand exactly the same. To me, it's very clear. But since we're getting it back in, I think it's the only reason we're gonna get that. Then I'd like to talk about what's going on with children's forwards. I have to say, this reminded me a little bit about the education minister's bill... that everyone gets strength no matter if they need it or not. If I understand why. A senator may suggest that even if you do not need a loan, but if you are able to go to school, you should still be strengthened if you have a child. And whether you meet the requirements for a career or something, it's just a funding system outside the student loan system. Thirty percent of your strength depends on taking a student's loan, and that's why you get both a down payment and then an extra scholarship because you need it. I don't think we'll necessarily put money on those who need it the most. It's about to adjust our priorities, but we may look at the matter differently in this regard because the progress of children is in another system that we have, which is likely to be able to handle and do. If the student is a student, I don't suppose he will be very much rewarded if he has a job, although he may be. [[The president calls.]] But does the senator feel normal that the child's adlocation system is at the side of this system? Because that's what it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u126	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A senator believes that this point can be considered between 2 and 3. I snuck a little over it earlier. But I'm sure I'd like to take a closer look at that understanding. The senator may be a argument against the proposal. But I'd still like to say that I'm not that in general, and maybe that's where we are. A senator does not agree that scholarship and study support should be available only to those most in need. For me, it's a question of how much we can invest in people, compare with what I once said that I didn't think of these things as some kind of charity or assistance with poor people, at least not only, but as an investment in the future, investment of society in people, really, regardless of their status. But because we have such a community, mixed economy, and a sense of dignity in general, I mean, we, of course, help especially those most in need, but not just. This may well create some type of double system that would have to be developed differently. There may be other ways to set priorities. But I am not shy about establishing a support system for students who are not borrowing. Whether it was on the basis of having a child or not, it is not everything. I would like to consider such actions, even if we were talking about individuals who did not have children. If it was individuals who had children but might wish to study if they were given strength, I would consider it a good story and a good investment if we would let them study, I suppose. But I'm glad we can take a closer look between the 2nd and 3rd. I hope there's numbers to prove it. I would enjoy learning more about how this system would double that time. It may not have to be double; it may be possible to achieve the same goal without creating a double system. I'm totally open to it. I would like to reiterate that I do not believe that the strength and support for study should be for those most needed, though, of course, it should be for them too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u127	A respectable president. I would like to recommend Article 2 my share of the student's education education bill. Before I begin, I would like to mention what flew into my mind when I heard the final words. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson when he spoke to his committee, when I heard those poetic words about the value of education. We need to keep them in mind when we are dealing with such issues, which are often about numbers and various laws, and there are complex technical issues, and we always need to remember what we're doing with this. Egilsson, who was the head of the Bessieve School, who later became the School of Education, who later became the School of Education in Reykjavík, said in a school discourse when he set up a college - only schoolboys to talk to, only boys who were taught, this is what we have now, in spite of all: We do not learn to be taught, but to be good. We learn, not to learn, but to be good, i.e. Not only does education have value in itself - it certainly has value, education is of value in itself, but education is not just about learning, not just about producing the valuables that learning can bring, of all material value, but it is about education as well as about good and beautiful human life. That's what we're investing in with this kind of treasure. We're investing in the cultural level of society, the level of education of society. We're investing in becoming good, that there's a good life here. So I'm going to join the opinion I'm recommending here, and I'm from my second half right now. General and Education Committee, it's the first thing to say that there's a lot of good and positive things about this bill and a lot of things are looking for benefits. It is very good that the responsibilities taken in earlier years should fall, of course, with certain conditions. It is good to have a delay in reimbursement when specific circumstances arise; the entry here initiated, from the loan system to the funding system, is a good development that hopefully will develop. And the strength of children, that's positive. So I continue to trace what is positive about the bill, especially the change in plans. a greater proportion of the interest will be set in terms of not exceeding 4% of the retailed loans and the interest of unsecured loans does not exceed 9%. Although we in our memory might have chosen to see these numbers lower, it is happy that the committee failed these plans to consider such a high risk to the borrowers, who, in our opinion, would have opposed the central role of this fund, a social equation. Also, this fund, and we must not forget it, has been established in the mid - 1960's, creating a quiet revolution in Icelandic society because it has made it possible for people who come from delicate homes to break into education and work in the trade they have educated to do. Thus our community has been enriched to an infinite degree, and there is something of value that we need to nurture and cultivate. But there is no denying that in recent years this fund has done more and more damage to this role, i.e. This social equation and we may feel that we have not been successful enough to use this opportunity to remedy it. Maybe then I'll come to our main concern at the bill that's about the production. In our opinion, there are very vague goals and broad expressions on the process, and we therefore have an adjustment form that reads, with the permission of a president: Each student's advance loan should be sufficient to provide a balance of typical consumption criteria in Iceland, as well as housing costs during the course of the study, taking into account the family size of a student and a resident's size. We try to give the board a little more specific instructions on what to aim for and on what criteria to work when it is to determine this forward, rather than merely to say that forwarding should be done. I'd like to refer to this relationship to the student council of the University of Iceland, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ Students have long fought for higher shallow progress, as too little effort forces them to stay in a job market to support themselves at the same time as they study. As a result, student income is usually higher than fund - making levels. This leads to poor student loans that force students to work more hard to support themselves. This vicious circle has been responsible for the government so far. Since there is no change or direction to the administration due to the restoration loans in a new system here, there is a loss of opportunity to demand a management of their revisions so students will actually be able to support themselves in their studies. In addition to this, it may be noted that the bill does not produce any material changes in the fund's role or goal, so fund management is not obliged to change its activities to ensure access to study rather than to existing laws. This has been a vicious cycle that seems to be difficult to get out of, i.e. Students have to work with studies in order to support themselves, which once again leads to borrowing. You think of some of this as a cultural thing. We know that students here in Iceland work more with education than they do in our neighbouring countries, and you suspect that somehow we might feel beneath, and maybe not even underneath, but openly, that this is the way things should be. It's a good community, it's a metric, it's fertile. Thus, students and students get to know the life of the country, work for sea and land, work that enriches people, and strengthens them, enabling them to cope more effectively with what life is about to bring to them. And there may be a lot to do. But not when you're in college and you're in a complicated, hard study that requires all your strength. Rather, it is a danger that people escape this challenging study and are tempted to do so, or simply forced, to go into the job market altogether. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson earlier we have a somewhat different focus on our committees, yet I think they talk well and work together. The Matrix did the right thing to accept all our adjustment proposals, and it'll all be very good. Among the changes we have made, but they are not found in the conversion proposals of 1st, we have about 4. about the loan, i.e. The ECTS units, which are 420. This criterion is lower than what was found in previous bill code where 420 ECTS units were minimal loans than funds could raise that reference. So we suggest that this law be adjusted to a new end, for students have long called for higher credit. It is also a mistake in our opinion that only 60 ECTS units can be borrowed from a doctor's degree because the doctor's level is very high. It may be unrealistic to consult what is common in our neighboring countries because our Ph.D. is much more powerful. That's where it's strengthened a lot more. Strengthened by the limited amount of doctors in this country, it is a small risk, when people may be in the middle of a doctor's course and with the credits they borrow, that they are forced to go to the job market, and it's hard to be in a job market, possibly in a demanding job, and then back to finishing their doctors. There is a chance that the doctor's study will go to the heart, thereby making an enormous investment and a great amount of knowledge. Your partner will miss a doctor and miss out, and the individual will also miss the investment he or she has put on, i.e. he can't finish it. We'd like to take care of this. Only about 11. ..... that those who do not consider them to provide responsibilities that are considered acceptable to them. Then again, I want to remind you that this education fund is a social equation tool to ensure that everyone's access to education regardless of the economy. Education is likely the most important option for a person who may be in a troubled state of life for some reason and who needs to get his way back. These may be people who are without property or who do not have a strong financial backland or who may have served a sentence and are planning anew. People in such situations must have the right to take a student's loan in order to create a stronger position in a job market, and all should be able to pursue study regardless of their economic situation. In this regard, by permission of the president, I would like to agree with what is stated in the BRM review of 11. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: 11 a.m. The bill says that a student who does not consider himself to be loyal borrower by the rules of distribution should present responsibilities for his borrowers. BHM reminds us again that in pars. The bill says that the goal of the law is to give everyone the opportunity to study regardless of the economy. It's hard to see 1 1. The bill is thus compatible with a goal. BHM suggests that the article will be adjusted so that a difficult financial situation will not prevent a student from taking advantage of the fund's study aid. Under these circumstances, we also agree that our proposal will be dismissed from a paragraph that discusses the role of responsible ones. We suggest that the responsible system on student loans be permanently removed. Only about the 19th floor. The years after study completion can be a little difficult, as some of us may remember. Then we develop family and resources for all kinds of financial commitments that are necessary simply to meet basic needs; to move around, to have a roof over our heads, and so on. This may cost a great amount of money for a young family, and it is on top of student loans, which can be a heavy burden because some earn a lot of money. In this light, it is an unfortunate change that student loans begin one year after the end of study, rather than two years, as laid down in the present system. We make the suggestion that this law will be adjusted in harmony with what is now and that our payment will begin two years after the end of the study. Then there's 21. ... whichI turned away from earlier in reply to. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, of which he was 35 years old. People today are so many years of education that they have to go to school, and they have to go back to education at all ages. It may be to gain more knowledge in some areas of work or it may be to collect some skills they may not gain for some reason in a job market, which requires a new education. People can be dealing with many situations of all ages, and it is not reasonable for us to assume that student loan income is not an option after a certain age. If a person chooses to pursue increased education, invest in a new education, no matter what age he is, he should always be able to pay off his student loans of a proportion of income. In this relationship, I once again remind myself of the social role of this fund and that the subsidies of the cities are important equationary measures to be protected. Finally, I brought up the change that most of the committees suggest on conditions for the decomposition of responsibilities. I welcome that change, i.e. the conditions where the individual should be excluded. However, we would like to go further and eliminate an entirely requirement for the withdrawal of responsibilities, i.e. the conditions of borrowing. This is a matter of righteousness, and it is especially when people receive such responsibility and even borrowers of individuals they have never even heard of. For many elderly ones, economic issues and such commitments that they have not even applied to themselves and for which they have not written are often of little value, and we have many examples of such cases. This is unjust, and only a responsible system will be removed. Educated is power, says the saying. And while speech may be harmful and tired, it often has something to do with it. However, we should not forget that we learn, not to learn, but to be good. That's why it's one of the biggest investments in human life that we're using here. It's people's lives and the standard of living in this country, that's what's under here. Education depends on the standard of living and the standard of living depend on education.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u128	A respectable president. I can agree with that with what. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson is indeed power. I can also see at the Committee's Table 2 smaller parts that as a team, as it appears today, the situation is relatively satisfying, with a huge breakthrough and a huge improvement for students. However, there are some points that the senator points out that he wants to change or even disagrees on the foundation. I wanted to come in on a few things. The senator got a lot of talk about the social role of the fund, and it's very clear in the bill that it's one of the main parts of the bill. At the same time, we are installing a dual system, one of the loans, that is to be sustainable, and the other, the support system financed by the government. The credit should be self-sustained and, if we take, for example. 11th .., if borrowers don't pay, that means higher costs for other borrowers. I also want to point out, he may already know, in the evidence, that such a law is already in the current law. In exceptional circumstances, those who are in need of e.g. a failure or a registration file should provide special responsibilities. It's in the current law. Something else about 19. ., people in the North will start paying a year or even more later, and the change to cut this down for one year will reduce the pay load of borrowers. I think that's definitely improving, but I'd like to hear more of the senator's meditation on it. But there are many factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yes, it is true, and it may be the very essence of what this is all about. A senator here points out how the sustainable loan sector will be preserved. I'm not entirely convinced that the loan will have to be self-sustained, that's some point of faith. What I'm speaking here is much more likely to be a government fund, a public fund, putting extra money in the fund, in order to fulfill what is the key role of this fund, and at rest. A senator is completely in agreement, and I think all of the Senate world, i.e. To be a social equation device, to be the force that enables people to pursue education in any situation in which they live and wherever they come, that they have the opportunity to pursue education in order to become the product of themselves. To fulfill this role, this social equation role, the fund can't really have the sole goal of its loans being self-sustained.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u130	A respectable president. It was nice to know that the senator in itself just disagrees with the primary goal of the new education that the loan will become sustainable. The senator also mentioned that he wanted to see more of the State's contribution. I ask the senator how much more? Wants him, like a 1st smaller part, to rise e.g. From 30 to 40% but did not have the cost? I wondered what the senator saw there. In terms of income exchange and age targets, the decision to make a fixed date is very well explained by the decision, which in the majority of which grew in the light of the social situation today. There is a natural decrease in the chance that people will return their loans to the older ones when they borrow, and they are more expensive. Society is less affected by the education acquired if people are studying very late in their career. That is a fact we all know. It is not to prevent a person from studying, they can apply for a student loan, and they can get this strength, a downturn from learning, and even if they have children, and so forth, so that they are not cutting people's rights. However, a income link is not provided. There's very good evidence to that effect. This is because the loan should be self-sustained. Regarding responsibilities, the senator gave a tragic example of how people may be unconsciously held responsible for their failing loans. But when people sit in complete preparation, they sign them when they begin to assume that they will accept both debts and property. It's just really sad when people don't realize what they're taking over. I ask if the senator recognizes the cost that would come to the state if all the duties, both sides what? - I cannot blame you, Mr. President - would be dropped. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-25-108.u131	A respectable president. It is true that the way we go and drive is the right thing to do. In fact, I'd rather use an investment because it's obviously investments that return many times in life, regardless of how measured they are. With regard to responsibilities, it is true that, as they say, those who sit on exclusive property will inherit their debts and possessions. But I don't think it's a question how this kind of responsibility should be defined. Are these debts or possessions? This may be the responsibility that the spouse has had, even before marriage, before the remaining mate has met his or her dead mate, and suddenly these old responsibilities come to life and become a major lesion even in the person's life. Are these the people's debts? I think it's a lot of opinion, and I don't think it's an opinion, it's a fair thing, it's a responsibility of that kind to fail.
