ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u1	Borist has a letter requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: From the health - care minister to ask for a spell. 321, for information agents and communications managers, for Dr. Sæmundsson and for Minister of Justice for a petition. 154, sentence and order to the office of law enforcement agencies and prosecutors from Björn Leví Gunnarsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u2	A respectable president. The threat of society as a result of the Covid pandemic is deep. Allied bodies, rural governments, homes, and businesses have had to deal with new challenges. In the South, where unemployment is above 20%, the prolongation of the period of income - related unemployment improvements has been significant, along with more solutions. Increased contributions to the Southnesian National Institute of Health, billions of projects at Keflavík Airport, increase in parts of Isvia's budget, and the expansion of projects at the airport in the years to come weigh heavily before Southnes. All of these are vital forms of resistance. A top-tier is the cornerstone of a Western island. New electrical processes have dropped shipping costs along the way to the islands and the Pacific. The increasing frequency of travel and better uses of land islands has been a major source of encouragement to residents and tourism in the Western Islands. However, after the horrors that Herlf's business has been going through this year, like many other public services, plus more tragedy, the operating situation is very narrow. After Herlf's regime has cut down the company's business to the bone, the state has come in with support for Covid and puts it next year to 140 million because of the decrease in passengers by 100,000, it still needs to increase the fare of the ferry by 25%, and 33% for cars, a respectable president. That's 80 million dollars. K. so that a 3/45% index increase is effective in the operation. The increase is 2,200 k. for each man in a car, both ways. If this increase in Herlf were set as a road tax in A Tunabre, a couple in New York City should pay 220 bucks. An effective day on their way to work if they should sit at the same level as a couple in the island who spend once a month on the ferry, or 52,800 bucks. every year. A respectable president. It is a choice to live in the Western Islands, but it is also the duty of society to avoid discrimination when it comes to the use of community transportation methods. The State's support of the strategy does not depend on that obligation to Western ears, and this has to be replaced.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u3	Mr. President. I've been talking about the status of professional and professional athletes here at the council lately. Unfortunately, there seems to be a very slight understanding of the position of this group of government groups, which puts them in the same place as the practice of the public. A distress call came last night from Dominos players of men and women in basketball games that encourage the government of Iceland and the CDC to authorize responsible training for professional and professional sports performances during the pandemic, as exercise is the most important factor in any kind of practice. Practice builds up and maintains performance, tolerance, and strength, and in the case of athletes, it prevents injury. They have had impaired practice since the 20th of October in the capital area, but since November 1, around the country, at the same time as exercise and games are being performed all over the rest of the inhabited earth. Of course, it's no joke to be fighting a pandemic, but it seems that directors don't see the difference between the work of professional and achievement athletes on the other hand and those of interested people like us, who explode from time to time in exercise stations and mountains. We take pride in the success of our people at large conventions, but the situation today is that unless practice is properly permitted before games are allowed, athletes may not have enough time to build up the above and thus may become more prone to serious injury and other long-term consequences. This will have a significant impact on national sports, national and national teams. Why is it that in all countries, neighbors and countries of the world, there are allowed exercises and contests in sports and not here? Isn't this some kind of misunderstanding, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u4	A respectable president. We've got a new high-risk assessment for Flats. It shows that 30 houses, 30 homes, are in the danger zone for avalanches. According to a 2004 danger assessment, after the parks were built above the town, there were no houses in a danger zone C. What a disappointment it was when it became evident that after the avalanche in 1995, the barriers were not to prove to be the security that people felt were living in! It assumes that the overflow and avalanche after avalanches could be larger than expected to develop subsidiary structures in the region. The conclusion of the risk assessment on Ásafjord, Biluddal, Sigludar, Ólafjörður, and Nesbúsút, may not yet be comparable. In 1995 a momentous year in the history of the natural disaster of this country was lost, with 35 people dying in avalanches on the West. This day is trapped in the memory of the Westerners, as well as in other lands. In turn, there was a great need for perfect protection parks there and in comparable places. Now in January last year, two avalanches in Flatton, a third in Suganda, followed by great destruction. It turned out that the courtyards that had been built did not live up to their expectations. Still, decades of promises to the Westerners have not been fulfilled. This time, it becomes clear that the area is now larger than previously thought and that it reaches deep into the settlement. Now the need must be clear to everyone. Besides, a professional contractor isn't protected. We must not lose our sense of urgency again. We must not count money when living breads or even lives can be involved. In these areas, people who have to be able to rely on support during tests. We must be able to ensure their safety and that right away. Many are the challenges we face in those areas even now. Let's do this project that's been going on since 1995.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u5	A respectable president. Despite the social situation, it is important that economic development not stop and investment in employment development continues. Society needs to increase the number of jobs and currency revenues. Conditions require that governments take measures that promote money - making investments. Then I'm talking about addition to what has already been done in support of research and innovation and maintaining companies. In other words, I'm talking about new measures that prevent chaos and create new currency costs and jobs quickly. So I have cooperated with other senators of the House of forwards suggested the state of State responsibilities of interviewing for professional development. The motion goes out, giving up to 200 million. K. A responsibility for borrowing to a wide range of job development projects in different Member States, where State responsibilities would be given for up to 70% of the loan level. In order for the operation to have a significant impact on the allocation of jobs, the total amount of loans that have a Kingdom responsibility would need to be at least 10 to 15 billion dollars. This case is number 31 of the series into the council and is the 33th case of a meeting of the day. We may not quite make it today. The proposal is to deal with the evidence that economic losses are increased because companies do not have access to loans for good and profitable projects, a project that lenders considered a promising investment in a standard year's trip, but now pay for the uncertainty. It should be possible for companies of all sizes to be used by government responsibilities, although most of the projects were small and medium-sized. You know, there's a lot of good work, knowledge, and courage in the community, but we need to make sure that you have money to build a job. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u6	A respectable president. It's a busy year around the corner. Government and nation will face the consequences of a pandemic, and economic hardships will be predictable by the expected cuts. There's no such thing as a wish. Now it is important that members of Congress work for their people and not forget that there is a personal rights to be met, now more than ever before. Now that many Icelanders calm themselves and struggle with a deep economic crisis, it is only natural that one of these important institutions is not the first thing that comes to mind, but it is a huge sidekeeper for the individual's freedom. According to the recent Year report Peritoneal Protection, pressures in the Agency have been multiplied in a short period of time. The Agency believes that unchanged it will be permanent and will increase year after year. Personal protection as an institution, especially as an institution, protects individuals and guides governments and others on matters that concern how individuals, businesses, institutions, and rulers should handle personal information about individuals. Often these are delicate, and especially valuable information. So it is important to protect them to the best of our ability. It is the obligation of the government to prepare Persian protection acceptable work conditions, and it is a fact that the Agency does not have the scope to carry out its duties, either to governments or to the public, because of lack of financial resources and subsidiary. A large number of people turn to Pernon Guard with serious cases involving basic human rights, and it is evident that society's institutions, including the General himself, need the direction of Perone Protection. Peritoneal status is serious, and trust in the government could be permanently damaged if they decide not to respond to its plea for increased funds. The financial protection of Perone, and that in the year of election, is a serious situation and severely limits the capacity of the Agency to carry out its legal obligation to society. So I'd like to encourage them. A legal committee to ensure that this important institution of capital is appropriate so that it can ensure personal protection for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u7	V.E.G. President. The recent loss has come to realize that agriculture is faced with economic failure. The increase in agricultural import has reached markets. The Covid-19 pandemic continues to increase the current problem. In particular, this can be attributed to the collapse of a number of tourists and government control operations. Thus, sales of meat have fallen by 9% in the past three months. In addition to this, meat supplies are now piled up in farmers' livestock as well as in stores of slaughter holders. The failure to take measures to prevent more meat from entering an overcrowded market will result in a collapse of meat to the manufacturer's watch. During the past two years, changes in milk and dairy products have been made. This change is observed in milk protein and milk milk metabolism. The main impact of this imbalance is the import of cheeses. When compared with farms in the neighboring countries of Iceland, especially Norway and the European Union, it is clear that there is a very big difference. Thus, governments in these countries and the European Commission have much more authority to implement measures due to temporary market imbalance, as well as major support measures taken for the Covid-19 pandemic. In Norway, farmers and agricultural companies are left alone from competitive law. In EU Member States, the Commission has a comprehensive record of action that enables farmers under the common agricultural policy to promote cooperation. Today's basic agricultural sector is a step in the right direction, but it is not sufficient for the serious situation facing farmers in supply collections and other activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u8	A respectable president. Is the number of microorganisms increased, and are they traitors to the multitude? In fact, the total number of microenergy donors has as good as anywhere between 2017 and 2019 years. Thus, changes between 2008 and 2019 do not give the correct picture of today's situation and change from the turn of the century. In response to the available data today, the number of micro-life recipients has increased to little or no since 2017. Similarly, since 2017, the number of microenergy pensioners has been replaced, but the population of the country and the people in the labour market has continued to increase. As a result, the percentage of micro-energy transplant recipients from 8.2% in 2017 to 7.8% 2019, while between 2017 and 2019, the proportion has decreased by 0.4%. This is shown in the report by Dr. Kolbeinn Francis Stefánsson of Social Studies. Talking about a massive betrayal in the micropower system is ridiculous. Of course, traitors are there, like anywhere else, but a survey conducted a few years ago that was supposed to show gross fraud in the social security system, were merely petty fraud, and almost exclusively for married couples who divorced paper but not really. I've said it before, and I've repeated it here that the few who try to cheat into this miserable, pendant, non-fund security system of social security are seriously ill, so they have a perfect and unscored right to be there. No matter how cheating they may be, let's start with the right place and the right end, and first find those who cheat the highest, the tax frauds who cheat hundreds of millions of dollars, hundreds of millions who are good for all the poverty's fees, and a good deal more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u9	Mr. President. Time is a limited resource, and time to take action against climate change is running out. The solution to this disaster is not as simple as a virus vaccination, and even if some try to immunization against the truth in these matters, science is irrefutable and decisive in the fact that the earth's climate is changing quickly and seriously. This requires the immediate attention of all of us. Greenhouse gas emissions are still far above acceptable limits. The sea is falling, the water is falling, and the consequences are that our ecosystems pose such a threat that the very survival of the earth itself is in immediate and urgent danger. We have a moral obligation to respond promptly and seriously. We can't let this go out of our hands. It wouldn't be possible. Young people'climates were prominent last year, and although a pandemic has had our minds on a recent occasion, we must not forget the demands of young people. Let's describe a climate emergency immediately. Not long ago, New Zealand took that step, and so should we. Let us make sure that we take serious measures so that we Icelanders can fulfill our commitments so that the average global warming stays below 1.5 °C. All right, let's take care of everything. The current government action programme provides only 8% of the reduction in total emissions. However, a 50% decrease in total emissions by 2030 and lack of carbon fractions must be ensured by the year 2040. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to encourage the highest order. Prime Minister in cooperation with the highest. Environment and resource minister to appoint the first climate tribe. Time is a limited resource, and when it comes to climates, time is running out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u10	A respectable president. Yesterday, the chairman of the European Court of Justice Association discussed the results of the European Court of Human Rights. There he said the problem was that governments use bullies to get their own people in. Three of the judgments the National Court is about have been reassigned. And they rose up from their judgment seat and sat down next. Imagine what that would look like in court. The man who comes before a judge seeking justice and fairness only scratches his head and asks: "Excuse me, is there any chance that the judge may be against me? The judge answers: Yes, I'm sorry. And he got up and sat in the chair next to me: now it's okay, it was just a problem when I was sitting in the other chair. Are we not entitled to judges and courts that we can be sure to treat citizens of our country in a just and reasonable way? How well do you trust the judges you know got into court with political bullies? How well do you trust those who sit in blue seats? What is the judgment of those judges sitting in those blue - colored seats and knowing that whatever they do is changed by the paint on their chair, no matter how honestly they carry out their work. Whitewashing like a chair exchange doesn't work. The blue glow will always shine against the blueness of the judges and their commands, not the seats. Anybody wants to see it. So there is only one thing to do, and it is obvious, that has been obvious from the beginning. What must be done is that the judges must be removed. It's as simple as that. The other thing to do is to prevent the group that has always used bullies in order to get its own people in, to get close to power. Misuse of power and bullies have been a long - term characteristic of the Independence Party. Dangers of abuse of power.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u11	A respectable president. The talk here may call for a much longer speech, but I'm going to discuss a whole different subject, okay? Senator. I'm going to discuss the application fees and the interesting fact that I got e-mail yesterday, where I was encouraged to submit my own proposal and the more part of the Economic and Business Committee to raise the application fees - or should we rather say correction of the application fees? I think it's time we had the courage to take that discussion in this hall how much the Church and other religions are relevant to society. They play a vital role in our community and in times like these are certainly in need. It's interesting to study longevity studies, and I think that many people in this room have observed factors or read books about the blue areas, where they have been studied in the earth's sphere, where people live as far as they can and what these people have in common. There are nine things to do, and they have a lot of general health and well - being to do, moderate and regular exercise, diet, and so forth. But it also has to do with the joining of people in faith in some higher power. There may be differences in what people believe or what human philosophy may involve, but it is simply important for quality of life and for the length of life to merge on such things. I think it's time we stopped talking down the church. It is an important and important part of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u12	Mr. President. When it comes to judging in 2017 when the National Court was first appointed, it is important to consider the real legal differences in the case, the fundamental legal differences. It is a matter of whether a separate justice minister has carried out a thorough investigational function in a reasonable way when she decided to make a proposal for a judge based on the fact that a judge's experience was given more weight than any other skill committee had based on it. This was the legal disagreement. This should be kept in mind when we listen to the speech of individual senators. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear on this topic. Let us bear in mind when trying to blow this out as if in Iceland a major violation of human rights has been committed because a man who had confessed to a crime was judged by a judge qualified by an assessment committee and more reputable by a justice minister than anyone else. Let us put things into context only in this regard. The other is so different that, of course, the Icelandic state must fulfill its contract commitments according to the European Convention and pay the individual the expense laid down in court order by the Supreme Court of Human Rights. Of course, then, we must ask ourselves, " How will I conduct the judicial order for the future? ' I'm not sure we've reached the bottom of that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u13	Mr. President. Today is a global day of disabled people. This morning, there were quite a few full page advertisements in the country's papers from Iceland's Scaring Association. They called for the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter to respect the general will to legalize the contract on the rights of disabled people. After ten days, the government would have provided its bill. It's not gonna happen. There's no such thing as this on the government program. The Congress that I proposed for such a bill approved the council 18 months ago. I've been pushing the case here at the Congress Hall. I've directed a petition to the prime minister here in the Senate Hall. I have published an open letter for the prime minister. And now, the Corporate Community is forced to publish a full page ads that the government must respect the permission of law. What's going on? Do the people know what is happening? Do the press know? You see, it's a big deal. We all agreed here, from all categories, to a case that would greatly improve the rights of disabled people. And the government was given the clear role of providing the bill within a time frame. Mr. President. Why is this matter being betrayed? This giant step, law-enforcement, would improve the legal standing of disabled people and desperate people in Iceland, but by doing so, we would be one of the first countries in the world to take this big step. So I ask, is the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter really going to stop it? I have seldom been so disappointed and sad with this government. [[The president calls.]] Do disability really need to buy full - page ads to get the ears of this government?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u14	Mr. President. Today, there has been a bill for the council on a central national park. This is an enormous source of joy, for this is one of the largest contributions from Iceland to nature's protection. The level of consultation with stakeholders and the quality of the work done, the amount of time in trying to achieve a positive landing for everyone, is highlighted in the case. The message hidden in a central national park is also no small text message to the world. In this regard, we do well to quote a recent article by Jón Stefánsson at www.visir.is It is no longer a question of whether this centerland national park will become a reality, and how important it is! Its importance for tourism in the country is undisputed, just in the areas where unemployment and problems associated with a pandemic have gained what is most important. This will be a great opportunity for all of us and for the whole world. What a fine way to become a beautiful flower is to work with natural protection, and little seeds that have been called inundated not so many years ago! Let us enjoy it together and help us water this wonderful flower that we are creating in the Icelandic highlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u15	Mr. President. Remuneration is a permanent project. It is the role of the secretary of finance and, in fact, the entire government of the United States, constantly working to identify opportunities for improvement. It has to be said that there is considerable scope at this point. According to the recommendation for increasing prosperity, the increased production of the government is the best way to balance the terms of government without compromising the standard of living. One of the points pointed out is that workers in larger organisations work better than smaller ones. In general, twice the number of employees outside the nuclear range in institutions with fewer workers than 50 are employed compared to institutions with more than 50 workers. Larger institutions also have a better chance of fulfilling administrative laws than smaller ones. It has an agent of the Generals, including the U.S. government. pointed out. The benefits, however, are even more varied. Small institutions have less opportunities to attract qualified employees because of the risk of professional isolation and limited future options. Being long - suffering also increases the likelihood of a high worker's well - being and reduces production. Approximately 60% of the population is divided into this category, i.e. have 50 or less employees. Less than 20% have ten employees or fewer. Mr. President. It's just an application. We have good experience in making good use of these tools. The integration of tax reforms resulted in a shorter pay period on business, charges, and increases in income monitoring. The government's contributions declined by 17% at the same time. A similar story can be said of the combined police service in the capital area. Therefore, I have prepared a synopsis of a concordance of state support, systematic and professional initiative, which will focus on a simple appearance to the public as well as an increase in the interests of state management. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, there is reason to expect good support here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u16	Mr. President. Since I did not find out yesterday's unsubstantiated i would like to use the opportunity to draw up some emphasis on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the December 1 court case. The sentence is immensely remarkable, could not be clearer to condemn political interference with the government of Iceland and have tremendous precedent for all Member States of the European Council when it comes to political orders in the courts. In particular, countries such as Hungary, Poland, and other former Eastern European countries will have to look to the results of tomorrow and they will expect a response in such countries due to the conclusion. It is not fun for Iceland as an established democracy to join a group of immature democracies, as some former republics of the Soviet Union are. It's certainly bad for Iceland to get its attack on the fact that the European Convention of Human Rights is violating principles, as the director of the Police Association reported yesterday in the media. She and others, including the one mentioned here, have called for the government to respond clearly to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights and take appropriate measures to prevent this recurrence. What does that involve? The issues that have taken place in the land's court and that could be repeated need to be handled by the judge who is left behind who were falsely appointed and who did not apply for an order to come back. Clearly, his position must be addressed immediately, as well as the case that the other judges have judged since the start of the land's work. Under this rule, Ragnhildur Helgadóttir, professor of law at the University of Reykjavík, has accepted and reminds the United States that it is a contract to correct matters. Mr. President. There is a huge interpretation campaign going on over the top of Strasbourg, and a number of incorrect records have been made in order to interpret their findings in favor, whether political or according to their status in Iceland's legal profession. But it must be clear that Iceland legalized the European Convention on Human Rights in 1994. By the legalization of the treaty, the text of the covenant was placed in its entirety in Icelandic law, allowing individuals to build upon his regulations for domestic courts. [[The president calls.]] There is no national dispute over this as if it were the highest. Secretary of finance has made it happen. I would like to encourage the government of Iceland to show the European Convention the respect of risking all interpretation wars and to respond with responsibility and humility to the rights of the Treaty. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u17	Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion. After the past history of the minister, representatives of all classes have the right to direct questions to the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u18	A respectable president. Now, the Covid epidemic has lasted for nine months with serious consequences for the lives and health of everyone on earth. Fartish fatigue is growing among nations, and we Icelanders have not been part of it. There is, however, positive news from vaccine producers. Hopes we'll see the light at the end of the tunnel. On November 26, a total of 47 vaccines were reported at a meeting of the World Health Organization (WHO), four of them being in the longest, and considered to provide an protection of 70◯95%. It can be expected that the first marketing authorisation will be given before the year one, and that the shipment of vaccines may start within a few weeks. Workgroup of Health Ministry has carried out the preparation and implementation of the purchase of vaccines based on EU contracts with pharmaceutical manufacturers. In Iceland and other EFTA countries the same access to vaccines is ensured as in the European Union. The European Commission began early in preparation for consistent policies and responses to the spread of Covid-19. Because it is not known exactly which vaccines will meet the effectiveness and safety requirements of the EU collection that specified the products that would be discussed with the salary of vaccines and which will be involved in the making of vaccines on different grounds in order to maximise the potential for the manufacture and distribution of vaccines as soon as possible. In the case of the Commission's contract with six of them, including Astrazeneca and Pfizer The Commission negotiates total amounts from each manufacturer and decides how it is divided between national partners. Each nation also makes a direct agreement with the producers they intend to buy from a vaccine. On the part of Iceland, there is a deal with AstraZeneca, and a deal with Pfizer is well along. The agreement with AstraZeneca involves the purchase of less than 230,000 doses that are enough for about 115,000 individuals. From Pfizer, we have 170,000 doses that will be sufficient for 85,000 people and with more contracts that are in preparation, we will make sure that we have enough vaccines. My priorities for vaccination for Covid-19 have been published, and the WHO's guidelines, opinions in similar work to those of neighboring nations, and particularly for the General Assembly resolution on moral values for priorities in health care. Vaccination must be given first to those in the forward line of disease, such as health care professionals and other staff in emergency departments and in intensive care departments and centres for patients infected with Covid-19, as well as health care professionals performing samples for the disease and nursing homes. Vaccination of persons living in nursing and living homes and hospital aging centres will also be high priority. The surgeon is responsible for the planning and coordination of vaccinations and is permitted to compromise the priorities of the Regulation if necessary. A respectable president. There is still no vaccine authorised in Europe, unless it has been approved in the UK for use with Pfizer. It is expected that a vaccine from Pfizer and AstraZeneca will be used first. They are talking about distribution routes in this country, but shopping for vaccination equipment is being carried out. That should be ready in mid - December. We are working on a communication material for the general public regarding vaccination and vaccination procedures in each medical setting should be available soon. A respectable president. The only way to stop this epidemic is to reach what is called herd resistance. To accomplish this, as much as 60 to 470 percent of the population must have been resistant to the virus, whereas only 5,000 to 5,66,000 Icelanders have now established the virus. Thus, it is unrealistic to expect to develop herd resistance differently from vaccinations. Individuals must be vaccinated at intervals of two to three weeks and then two to three weeks until an antibody response is present. Global immunity after vaccination is achieved earlier than the end of the first quarter of the next year and possibly later. It is not known if the virus can take the vaccine-induced mutations, although there is evidence that these viruses are less mutagenic than the influenza virus that needs to be vaccinated each year. In any case, it is advisable to wander with careful attention until the next summer. A respectable president. There's certainly reason for increased optimism in a society that's done an amazing job of wrestling with Covid-19.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for her review and reporting and would like to state these factors, in terms of the distribution of vaccines and related factors, that I think things are in order. So I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity and go on only other aspects, because although the information was good, I don't think there's any reason to go to the depth of it now. Of course, it will depend largely on the way a language develops in the vaccine and other aspects of the foreign field. What I want to ask the highest. A minister is what is involved in organizing sports and especially the sports activities of successful refugees. The Runólfur Pálsson, a physician and one of the officials of the Covid Hospital Hospital, made interviews on October 21st and on October 23rd. Because he went over it in a way that was very careful, I thought, that he did not think it wise for him to have success sports, and the popular sports activities were put under the same hat. We hear an emergency cry, or I will call it, from basketball players. Yesterday, Stab 2 of Iceland's best free athletes, Guðni Valur Guðnason and the Guðbjörg of Jóna Bjarnadóttir, who simply asked the question: Why can't we go inside training for Saturday's free sports status? It's almost that there's not just a 2-foot rule, it's a way to maintain a 100-foot rule if the organization's good. Little did anyone understand that the successful athletes are put under the same hat as the drummers. This affects injury, progress, ability compared to others, and then, of course, it is obvious that successful athletes are racing in all the countries we compare with. If we just play basketball, handball, and football, then races are going on in all the countries we compare with. [[The president calls.]] But first, let these good people go to a place where they can exercise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's inquiry, or perhaps rather the speculation. In fact, I agree completely with what. A senator on the importance of this practice. I've received letters and letters that support it further. Like what? A candidate is aware and has been identified in the media, a psychiatrist in advance has made a suggestion to me at early stages that he withdrew during the days, where it is expected to authorize this operation. This is clearly the next step, as well as increasing the maximum number, and as opening stores better than has been done, as well as swimming sites. So I think if it's what you think you're looking at, this is clearly the next step, and most important, because the athletes, and especially the groups there, have kept their language very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, and then he wants to ask whether this situation, i.e. That this opening, this compromise, has been avoided for some time. Now, an interview with Runólfur Runolf Pálsson from October 21st is made. It saysRunólfur including, by permission of the president: I think it should be my intention to begin rehearsals with certain rules. I agree to be very slow about the audience when the race starts. We know where the risk of transmission is, and it does not seem to be connected to organized sports activities. I don't think that as far as this point goes, there may have been a considerable variation in nature for a considerable period of time. This is what decision - making abroad in our principal control countries seems to have been based on. Therefore, I would like to challenge the health - care minister to have the position of a psychiatrist suggest to wait for this delay, and the minister will step aside and allow practice, at least for the achievements of athletes and racers, because the situation we now live in is totally unacceptable and has been a long time. It is a variety of influences that follow, apart from the amount of filling that goes from the everyday life of our common people, to be unable to observe the successful athletes who work in our day - to - day pleasures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's insistence on what he says. This is, of course, a everything for thought. What is and has been my main concern in the epidemic so far is to observe the principles of the administrative court, that we might take a moderate measure in all our decisions, and as much as we might be equal when working with an operation, I don't talk about limiting the authority of people to action. That's what the Ministry's project is at any time. But I appreciate it. A senator for bringing this up because I think these are views that are absolutely right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u23	A respectable president. I'll have these minutes here to discuss a little more in the future. We've been in a crisis, and we've been dealing very well with it. But I'd like to talk to the highest. HCP on the long-term long-term effects of Covid, both of those who have been so unfortunately infected by Covid, and who are prone to suffer the terrible consequences of it, but also for the rest of us who have been lucky not to catch it. I shared in interesting work on the evaluation of prosperity and quality of life. Today, we have set up this ideal period for a measure of prosperity and quality of life. There we will discuss three different factors; i.e. Social, environmental and economic. We've certainly been dealing with the economic factors of the Covid situation, I'm on top of the Economic and Business Committee, and I'm pretty well aware of that. The environmental factors we need to take further, although it is possible to say that much positive things came out of Covid, which I am deeply concerned about the social issues and the scales we make in that case, a respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of what measures are being taken in the Ministry and the institutions to cope with this effect. It was interesting, but also sad to see that after the last economic collapse, women's life expectancy for good health decreased considerably, for over two years, today is 66.2 years. For men, for some reason, actually very good, this ratio increased. According to the surgeon general's assessment of today, I sense that there is also some progress on stress, e.g. and it's even more measured in women than men. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I want to know at the highest. Minister: What is the Ministry doing on the measure of long - term health and social factors?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. As indicated in the question of why. The senator will then regularly monitor the surgeon's office for certain health and public health standards in the community. But there is also a major investigation into the well - being of a nation that is being conducted in cooperation with government and university, and there is a large study that is extremely important in these times, especially in order for us to make decisions based on information and knowledge, of course, that is very important. We have a great deal of emphasis on the growth of mental - health services. We have, of course, emphasized it in general during the term, but we have put special funding on it, both this year and then on the budget for the next year, in order to promote mental health care, not just here in the capital area but on national level, by strengthening the mental - health workers and by strengthening the mental - health care of the health professionals. We have two new teams who have been appointed to be led by a surgeon's office, one for monitoring mental health and the other, to protect public health, these are special groups that monitor these factors that are important in the indication of the surgeon's office. Hv. A candidate in particular asks about the gender variable, and, of course, it is very important in all of this, to monitor her closely and in particular the feelings of young people, that this epidemic has been very much discussed. I've started a special job on women's health assessments. In the year 2000, such an assessment was completed, so it is only solemn to do so now 20 years later to make a special examination of women's health and status.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister answers, and he agrees with the importance of looking at the sexes because they are different, and we see that these have been related in different ways to them. V.E.G. A minister also mentioned the feelings of young people, and we have interesting research and discussions that have taken place in the past few weeks about them. There's something I'm really worried about, and I think we should all have, and that's why our actions must focus on how we can improve the feelings of young people, of course, the well - being of people in general and particularly young people. But in the last second, I want to enter the importance of a rehabilitation service, that's all I can do. We can see that a certain proportion of people who have received Covid is looking for a rehabilitation service. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How does she see that we can further improve the rehabilitation services offered in our country? We know that there is a considerable number of requests in the case of Smokeyunda, our principal rehabilitation agency, that are available each year. How's the top? A minister realizes that we can improve this vital health service as the demand for it increases further as the effect of Covid increases?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u26	A respectable president. At last, there is a rehabilitation policy that had long since come into existence. She's been working her final operations at the Ministry with the goal of timing measures and setting up responsibilities for each procedure. This project is an enormously important task, and this year it is because of it. A member in particular asks about rehabilitation for those who have received Covid, we have made a special arrangements for 200 million additionally used materials to look forward to rehabilitation for those who have received Covid-19.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u27	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the Minister for the report and for keeping the council informed. We've already talked about these matters. I'm urging us that the ideals of the future are very important to all of us, that the front line appears as one man. It will inspire more confidence in the public. That is how it has been, and I believe it and trust it to continue. A respectable president. I'm concerned about people's health and that people can make a living despite the situation we face. We have previously discussed the importance of ensuring forethought in the actions of the government. I'm gonna ask the Minister how we're doing it best. I ask about the sports work we have to make sure that our athletes and children can continue to practice, come back to revise the limitations. Social importance requires that. I'm asking the Minister about the number of restrictions in stores that are critical. The number limits now being set, such as for forming in 400 people, are now being determined by the same number of restrictions as the small store in the mall. I'd like an explanation for that from the Minister. Is it not necessary for mass restrictions to take into account the size of commercial services, schools, and public buildings where possible? I'm aware that it's quite confusing. I ask about hair salons and nearby, personal services: Is it really possible for this operation to continue from now on unintruded under the same circumstances? In a second request, I'm going to ask the minister about vaccinations, how we deal with them, and how we deal with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u28	A respectable president. I agree with every word in a case. A senator and I agree with the importance of sports work, both for practicers but also for society all over, and all the social activities that take place around sports companies. We have stressed this in the fall of our lives to ensure that the organized sports activities of young people can continue. Of course, this is very important. The same is true of hair salons and salons and such practices as what they do. A senator mentions, which is now a world. Because of what? A senator asks about the number of market restrictions they have been by specific rules. When a certain size of a house is arrived, there will be a customer in line with certain rules with reference to space. This is really true when the next step will be taken off limits, which I hope will be as soon as possible. I think we have to be very careful about this, and it's been natural in the case of more senators, to look at the health and impact of health, public health, and society when we deal with the virus. At the same time, we need to keep our eyes open to the fact that if we don't succeed in the fight with her, we have problems that have to do with so much good health at the time of the health system that the other factors are actually in line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u29	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for his clear answers. I think we're just very agreeing on these matters, but they're calling for a great sense of regret and a greater vision. I realize it's not easy, but I think we all agree that it's very important that it's happening about sports between children and teenagers, and I don't talk about Janus's elderly groups that call out for more practice. But I'd like to ask the Minister about vaccinations. What will they guarantee individuals? Will they ensure freedom of movement? What about those who do not choose to receive vaccinations? Do we not have to appeal to people's responsibilities toward one another? Has the minister considered the best option for young people to be in the pecking order when it comes to vaccinating for Covid, but has this been discussed in the priority order?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u30	A respectable president. When you review and decide your priorities for vaccination, there are several viewpoints that you would consider. That may be, first of all, the most likely class to be affected by Covid-19. That's where the naturals of us are the oldest and most sensitive people. That is why they are at a higher level. The groups that handle the front line of vaccinations, vaccinations, sampling, or caring for ICUs or other places where Covid patients are inclusive are also at first priority. So there are principles that we support. The goal, of course, is to protect people from the disease and to develop social immunity and to stop the spread of the epidemic. That's our primary objective. By reaching that goal, you will find that you will be able to relax the risk of contracting disease.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u31	Mr. President. We are living in a time of history that is much easier to deal with. The fatigue in society has become considerable, but we are spreading light in the distance, a vaccine, and all the nations, preparing for active vaccination. For example, Danir has made a contract with five companies, which together ensures that 15 million people are vaccinated. However, in Denmark, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland, only near the 6 million people are living in total, but this makes Danir betting on more horses, as they say, to make sure that they receive enough vaccines, even if there are problems with having the vaccine approved or that something else unexpected happens. The minister came into the ratio we are dealing with, it seems to be on a lower level. Will health authorities in Iceland provide a similar ratio to Danir? As noted, the minister has provided a bill for the state to pay the victims of the vaccine against Covid-19 whether the damage is attributable to the quality of the material or to mishandling. How, though, will you be monitored for side effects? Is there any particular emphasis on observing those who face it in this country? Is there a process if such things occur, as occurred, e.g. in association with the porcine influenza vaccine, where there were cases of subsequent illness from narcolepsy? There have been some reports of implementation of the vaccine procedure. Among other things, the mayor of Reykjavík has mentioned in the context of the possibility of looking to an order and implementing an election, which ensures that it will be carried out in a person's immediate environment. What subjects are involved in the agreement of vaccinations? Where will she go out there? Does a minister have any motives about when vaccination will start and how long will it take to give all or all of us the vaccine that he or she wants? Will it be totally free, or will there be any fees for this? [[The president calls.]] Finally: Do people get seroconversion before vaccination? [[The president calls.]] And will those who have antibodies to the virus also be vaccinated? I don't know if it's the highest. Minister has information on this on rhythms.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u32	A respectable president. I'm going to try to answer as many questions as possible. A senator and he can. I thank him for his clear questions. First, I'd like to mention that up to now we have no evidence that the vaccine that is developing causes serious side effects, but according to news reports, 10 ◯15% developed mild influenza symptoms two to three days after vaccination. It is considered within acceptable limits for disease with potentially fatal consequences. Hv. A candidate specifically asks for the implementation of the vaccination. The idea is that health care will handle this project, and the preparation of this procedure is well established. This is expected to be done in close environments, such as winter. A senator mentions. So we're actually talking about here in the capital area, that it could be given to a large, accessible space with plenty of parking lots, etc. and where rapid implementation can be ensured. The course of vaccination, therefore, should never be a bottle neck in progress or the speed at which this is occurring, rather than the speed at which the substances enter the country. I know that the director of the health care of the capital area has been in contact with the mayors for the implementation and implementation of these projects. I suppose this will start right from the beginning of the year and in the first weeks of a new year, but at what rate I cannot predict. But given the way all of this looks, we can assume that the intended vaccination will be about at the end of the first quarter of the year 2021. And, yes, we expect the vaccination to be free of charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u33	Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. Of course, we keep our minds fixed on the well - being and well - being of young people who have lost much of their lives in this epidemic. In this regard, sports and exercise have been called high and more aggressive. Senators spoke up here today. Contestants in various fields are naturally impatient, thinking that in view of experience and action in neighboring countries, the way Iceland has chosen has reached some direction, claiming that in these articles, the risk of transmission is negligible and not defending from many sources, to hold back the racers. They're voices from among them. I'm asking about the minister's attitude. They have, in part, appeared. What research or more recent information is used when such rigid periods of organized exercise are set aside? I'm making a clear distinction between gymnasium and e.g. basketball, handball, or soccer, I don't talk about free sports. I'd like the end of the line just to hit everything else, and that's the best part of the community. Some rural communities have been exposed to considerable costs and income losses because of the epidemic, especially the time the inhabitants were exposed to agricultural epidemics. It was a temporary arrangement during the time of the infecting process, which meant that only one person at a time in each household could leave the home in order to make a prisoner. Will some extent be met with rural areas that were particularly challenging in these areas? In this connection with the Western Hunsa Council, I specifically mention it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u34	A respectable president. Only about sports. Like what? A senator said that I had already responded to similar speculations. But it is proper to keep to the point that there have been exceptions for successful athletes who are preparing or training for international conventions or races. Right away. A senator asks about the research or scientific basis for these suggestions, so to answer, when I receive suggestions from a psychiatrist in accordance with the treatment laws, these are suggestions based on information, the knowledge of epidemiology, the knowledge of where the risk of transmission is most likely in the community, etc. That doesn't change the fact that I agree with it. A senator on the importance of sports based on so many views. Of course, we are a disease - control doctor in our decisions to make the following steps so far. Hv. A senator specifically asks about specific measures for the rural areas that have taken regional measures for disease prevention. I don't know that came up with that opinion. It may be, but it has not been part of my daily tasks, so to speak, to look to the temporary and temporary application of disinfectants and to designated areas, as has truly been done in the Western Huns Council and, indeed, in some other places. But I am kindly and obliged to seek knowledge of it, and to bring it to them. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u35	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of health for her report, and I find it extremely well to feel that the Generals have this attitude, that ministers come in here and report to us and that we can have a discussion on these matters. It makes me think that we'll be better at making decisions in terms of this epidemic, but it also matters for the informed discussion. I wanted to say it here in the beginning. But during the discussion of the day and the vaccines. I think it's extremely important what's happened at the highest level. Minister to the vaccine, when it arrives, will be free of charge. This, I believe, is of utmost importance, and I have come to believe that no matter what the financial situation, everyone has access to it. What I want to ask the highest. A minister is that when this is available, there is now a list of priorities, whether or not something has been considered how to reach people, so that they know that they have the right to be vaccinated, and that they have even come up with the group they belong to. I would like to mention, for example, those of a foreign background who may not have become accustomed to this kind of service, so the costless and vulnerable ones. I think this has to matter to do with the operation of vaccinating people. How can you reach these people so that they know that they can provide the opportunity for vaccination?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u36	A respectable president. I agree with it. A senator mentions, of course, that such service should be free of charge. We have come close to this in ways that are like other things the Icelanders have done, and the people who are more rightly told, in connection with Covid-19, that they are not about commands and prohibitions but, rather, about the fact that people want to lie down. Therefore, we have not been in a position to oblige people to have vaccinations. Rather, we have become part of what we willingly want to do, willingly, to participate in this communityly assignment. Then let's get it together as a boy. A senator mentioned, and I've forgotten it. A senator was asking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u37	How will we reach people?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u38	The vaccine recipients are expected to call for people in the order of Regulation so that they are expected to receive some form of rejection. It is the approach to do so in this way, but, of course, by broad advertisements, medium information, etc. We try to do this as best we can, but we do so so that information or encouragement is directed toward people in line with the priorities outlined in Regulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answer, and I think this is a reasonable way to make it sound, i.e. advertising, too. And this discussion, of course, is part of the community's knowledge of what we are going to do but also of providing health care or social services for certain groups. I think it's important that it also comes from those who are engaged in the ministry because it's just so important that those who are in a more sensitive social situation don't somehow fall between ships and docks on this important project. This looks pretty good for us in Iceland right now. Of course, it's great, and I realize that there's an enormous amount of work for all kinds of people involved in securing vaccines and other products. I would like this second question to ask about what has been said, that Iceland is involved in buying vaccines for other countries that are not as well off as we are. They look primarily to the Third World. Is there something closer to the plan as the highest? A minister could tell us about the next steps there? Naturally, we're a little busy with ourselves and our next neighboring country. But this is a matter of universal importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u40	A respectable president. Hv. A senator was thinking about groups that may be more challenging to reach than others. We already have some information about Covid-19 information, and it has been given a great deal of emphasis on having information in more languages and sharing it in a more meaningful way. I suppose that if we are going to do so in the same way regarding this information, both to ensure that it is available in more languages and even more, when we are talking about people living in nursing homes or in communities or other such places, we are assured by means of information to both the population and the staff how this order is conducted. Hv. A senator specifically asks of our cooperation with international institutions to ensure that there is a vaccine available to people in countries where biofuels are not ensured in the same way, countries living in poverty, etc. In answer, then, we have already contributed 500 million in our collective worldwide funds to ensure that no state will be reduced. That is a plan by the World Health Organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u41	Mr. President. There's been a lot to go to the top. The Minister of Health and the Ministry since the Korean virus arose here in February. As a result, her ministry's greatest job undoubtedly had to face a direct battle against the disorder itself. Happy reports of the development of vaccines are being made rapidly and without doubt, with hopes so that the vaccination process can be started at the start of the next year. Yet, it is clear that in the past ten months, other public health issues have been affected, as it does in the mid - epidemic. At the same time, the side effects of disease prevention have been exposed by the epidemic itself, and it is evident that the next difference will reveal the extent and severity of the epidemic. It is anticipated that strong resistance will be needed against the common health problems that will come up very quickly. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: How has the development of the nation's health, along with the epidemic, been monitored and the consequences of preventive measures? Consider Ministers, e.g. use the information generated in the assignment of a people at Covid-19, and then how? What is the Ministerial Action Programme when it comes to other public health impacts of the pandemic? The same way, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How will you cooperate with the data that will be produced by a people at the time of Covid-19, i.e. how will the information from these operating groups be taken into the secretary's decision-making and its Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. As indicated by the question of why. This is a very important and important investigation by a surgeon and Iceland's University, now known as a people in Covid-19. It will contain a very important foundation for us to focus on in our health care. I believe that the most important things there are to focus our attention on the big movie that provides the basis for good mental health. It is, in fact, the cooperation of the nation of all and all the administrations because it is important that we not be so preoccupied with dealing with disease that we forget to prevent them. It tells us that the largest variables exist if people are peripheral for any reason, live in poverty, or have some economic deficiency, lack of access to services or such, then there is a high likelihood that the person will have to deal with poor health, and especially under conditions like these. That is why we need to be careful to keep our eyes on the ball, so to speak. We need to keep a very close eye on the human health board and other mental health control groups, how the nation is angry at a month before and especially when this epidemic is finally behind us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u43	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers give detailed answers to my questions and agree with the importance of engaging in preventive measures and the importance of preventive measures so important to the well - being of the nation. But I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on the fact that, along with the discussion of a new bill of conversion to disease protection laws, there has been an issue of authority on the obligation of the citizens to vaccination. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister if she feels that it is important for her to have this warrant in the tool box. Is it right to believe that the possibility of forcing people to perform such a medical procedure would be in harmony with human ethic? And does a minister really believe that he has that authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u44	A respectable president. My bill on the transition to Disease Control is being discussed on a welfare committee, and I suppose that is the case. The welfare committee considered them to be valid. There's a senator here. Perhaps it is in nature that what I propose to the council is what I propose to be accepted and to be concluded. However, it is the council that is the lawgiver and that determines the conclusion, i.e. The committee proposes to the Council what the law will look like after its release. So I think it's important for a health committee to sit down and discuss the matter and the 1st. The matter is really over. All the authority on the bill that is in current treatment laws are sources that are considered important to the Ministry and the person listed here. I've decided to follow the council of the committee who wrote the bill with the approach of those most familiar with the implementation of a disease control law. Hv. A senator appeals to me on the issues of public health and prevention, etc. Then I'd like to tell it also, because of it. A senator has an understanding that the battle against Covid is now a little premeditated and has been this year, that it is also so that we have added to the funding and emphasis on preventive measures, on health - care benefits, on emphasis on the importance of sleep. I and a surgeon have been preparing such a campaign, and it was started in January when we found ourselves having other issues on the agenda. Of course, watching out for sleep is an extremely important public health.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u45	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for this fine discussion and a very clear review. Minister. I can't say my heart, and I agree with the words of the people here who are concerned about our successful athletes. That's a serious situation. It is a reality far different from that of the rest of us. We can miss out on practice, and there's no pity for us to walk out and do reinforcements to contain the implant. Our progressive athletes are in a very different place, and I hope we find ways to get it to work as quickly as possible. According to this, I would like to focus on the fact that in the news of Stop 2 yesterday, Rúna Hauksdóttir, director of the EMA, came up and told us that when the drugs arrived, they would all come at once, and we could immediately start vaccineing. I understood what she said no better than that. At this morning's meeting of information, a psychiatrist spoke in a slightly different way and wanted to reduce his expectations. We're receiving medication, from three institutions. Dates vary from time to time. We may not have had confirmation of all of that. I would like to ask a minister: What expectations are realistic when we have what we can do? Can the minister explain the discrepancies in this case? What does that mean for us? Is it true that no one company will fill our needs for a quantity of vaccine? How do we handle it? How do we resolve it and just stick to the right place? What is normal, and how should we enter the new year? It's a simple question like that to the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u46	A respectable president. I'm not surprised. A senator will ask about this. There are a lot of news every day about these matters, and especially so, it is very important that we discuss them here. As in the current situation, it appears that a vaccine will be purchased by three companies in the first place, i.e. AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Modernna. There are other companies working on a contract. AstraZeneca is the only company we have already signed a contract with and a contract with Pfizer will be signed on December 9. This is the situation. There's not a date for signing the Moderns, but it's hoping it'll be by Christmas. We cannot now say when we will receive a vaccine from each company or how many doses per hour, however we can say that we are likely to receive doses for 85,000 people from Pfizer, for 115,000 people from AstraZeneca and for 40,000 people from Modernerna. These are the numbers we have now. After the granting of the marketing authorisation in this country, there will be some time for the vaccines to arrive in the country depending on how much each company has vaccines at any given time and what it will be given to each State. We don't have clear information on how fast this is going to happen. However, we know, and we can say that based on the current information, we can start vaccination in the first few weeks of the new year and that the goal of vaccination will be about in the first quarter of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. I'm so relieved to hear that. What a joy it is, and it gives us hope that we are starting a new year! That year will be remembered as we all know it for a long time, and I won't have any more words about it here. There are many solutions after all of this. It's good to hear we're doing tests. We are watching for the feelings of children, young people, and people of all ages. That's extremely important. Now, I'd like to look at a certain group of us, there are high school and university youths who have some who have had some uncertainty about what the next semester will be like. A certain group has not come to school this term, but others have received it in part. The schools have been solving this to the best of their ability, and they have been admired. But I would like to ask if this group could get some kind of vision about this. Not everyone lives near their shoes. Many people live in other rural areas and so on. Prescientity could help such a group as long as we can just answer it at all. I hope we can. I sure hope so, because it's important. So I'd like to get back to that, as I have done before in this talk and make a talk the other day, that we are going to learn a lot from this. We're gonna get a lot out of this. I challenge all of us to take out what we learned, what's positive, and how we can proceed with this. V.E.G. A minister spoke of sleep tests. Now it has been shown that our young people are sleeping better. Can we work on that? It is a very important aspect that we need to keep in mind and encourage them to keep on doing better. I hope we can get something positive out of this and build ourselves on that foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u48	A respectable president. About our young people, I'll start worrying about what. Senator. Actually, we can say that these are the largest voices now heard in the community, i.e. from the families of young people in college and college. People worry about how this semester ends, how the next one starts, etc. We've kept talking about the importance of being in the community, and if it's important somewhere, it's in people where one year is so much more important than people who have come along, and I don't talk about, middle age. At the top. Education minister has completely agreed on the importance of securing high school education as possible. It is in complete foreboding when we consider the next steps in school. Hv. The key to learning from the epidemic is, as is popular, as is the case, as well as how we as a community have dealt with the epidemic. I think it's at least fully aware that we can learn that listening to the advice of the best people can bring us happiness. It has also been our quality in Iceland as yet, as it has been said, the use of preventative measures has not been classed as in some parts of the world, where people have organized themselves into political parties, depending on whether they want masks or not. Happily, that has not happened. I think it's important, but no less factors. A senator mentions and submits to public health.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u49	A respectable president. I want to be like others to thank the highest. Ministers are very much concerned with this information donation, arrangements and actions that I think are absolutely exemplary. We are in this context to discuss positive news, not every day in this context, about vaccination and the possibility of it. I'd be interested to hear more of the latest. Minister of publicity and information to the public in the context of how it will be conducted. I feel that I recognize in the discussion that there are, of course, great joys, eager expectation but also uncertainty and, in fact, all kinds of emotions that clearly share people, voices that reflect anxiety e.g. What does this involve, etc. The second question concerns whether the public will hear more about government reasoning on priorities. Of course, this has been shown in the highest case. Minister, as far as I understand, that the older people, e.g. and those who are sick for some reason. But what is the basis for this relationship? Of course, the old people are still there, but where are they standing, e.g. Our youths, and in the context of these heavy social consequences, e.g. High school students? I now have one of my own, which is basically missing two out of three years, because two of the three high school years are very marked by this period. And perhaps at the end of the priorities and ideologies: Are countries that we compare ourselves with, North countries, European countries, etc, accessing this project as to priorities and rationalizations? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u50	President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First, regarding the information presented, I think I need to mention that the current debate is really part of the information presented, as it has been mentioned earlier in the discussion that comes up every day by vaccines and when they come and how this will be done, etc. I think it is a great responsibility for the government to ensure that information is as clear as possible. For information regarding vaccinations, we assume that the information delivery will be through the Covid.is website, also through health care, through advertising campaigns, and by personal contact. And because of what? A senator specifically asks about the Regulation and the approach to setting priorities for the vaccination is our objective by ensuring as much forethought as possible and based on objective views. That's kind of what we have to do. The most important part is that we have this priority when the first or first doses arrive. In fact, it is obvious that once the vaccines are growing to a high level, the matter is a little clumsy. It is about who are first, and then we look to groups that are at risk of contracting jobs for reasons of their own but also about people who are more likely to develop serious symptoms, such as older people and people with underlying diseases. This is in accordance with WHO guidelines. There's a little difference between the way this is done between countries, but not so much that we can say it's different. [[The president calls.]] But for them, the first five groups count 11,000 people in Iceland, perhaps over 70,000. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u51	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is obvious in this case that health results are involved with economic success, not only in opening up jobs and the opportunities of companies and people to start making money, but also in their expectations. We saw, for example. Just what it did to the stock market to be told. That's what's waiting for. In relation to expectations, there is only a conflicting message in the news, one of the directors of the Agency in the news yesterday that spoke of likely vaccination as early as January and then at the interview of a psychiatrist at an information conference this morning, where he spoke of a realistic optimism and ineligible that we were about to begin on the job in January. Can a health minister further inform us about this and, in the context of expectations and in the context of the point that health and success are in place of economic success? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u52	A respectable president. All of this hangs together, our health, our physical health, and my mental health. It all hangs out, and I agree with it. A senator points to this matter. But I'd like to say, too, because there is a bit of an unusual situation in many respects, the International Parliament's Council has recently dealt with and managed to address the values and priorities of health care and to take away a Senate resolution of that, during the last assembly. Then we actually have a little guide we're talking about factors such as privacy and life and health, etc., where there are some lights we can use. But because of him. One senator mentioned that a psychiatrist may be more cautious in his words than others, so I think we're all talking about it, and it's responsible to say that we'll see vaccinations at the first quarter of the next year and that they'll start early in that period. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u53	Mr. President. It is now nine months since this blessed virus was paralyzed. During that time, many things have happened. But I don't know if it's Covid-related, and I want to ask the highest. The minister to explain why in very small cases the need for physical therapy has been cut off because it has been cut off by individuals who were previously able to go and have six hours without a doctor's request. At least there will be a request now. It just means that we're saving the dollar and throwing 100 bucks away, because it's a lot more work for the doctors. This is of utmost importance to individuals who stumble e.g. on ice or something that needs help because of injury in the back or something. It's completely incomprehensible to me that this is what it's done. At the same time, many people are experiencing the consequences of the virus and also need physical therapy. So I would say that it would be all right to make sure that there was the best access to physical therapy and would be unchanged, but not just one side of it - why? That's the question. I hope the health minister can answer that. At the same time, I'd like to point out that young people are sleeping better, but I'm worried about older people. I'm worried about people who used to go swimming and move. You can't just say to it, "Go walk. " A large group of people can't. I'm asking, isn't something going to be done? For my part, it is both mentally and physically necessary to open the swimming pools quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question. First of all, regarding an unprepared inquiry for physical therapy, I think, with the change as a matter of course. A senator who needs a reference from a health care professional should not be a threshold for that service. Also, there are some physical therapists in some places who have experienced increased health care for themselves. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the swimming pools. As the senator has observed, plans from November 25 were made by a psychiatrist. to suggest to the health - care minister that a swimming facility be opened. It was then assumed that there could be 50% of those for whom each swimming site is permitted. This was not least because of their precise motive. A senator mentions, i.e. the importance of movement for people who have problems, musculoskeletal problems, or problems with motor skills, whether they are elderly or others. So I completely agree with the senator on the importance of swimming pools when it is time to take measures to defuse the limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u55	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers' answers, but I'm telling her that it is not so simple to get a referral to a physical therapist from a doctor. In some places it is very simple. In other places, it's very difficult, especially if you're leaving for the first time, the doctor wants the person in the place, and I can just say that if I'm gonna make an appointment with a doctor right now, it's a month's wait. You can only thank me for getting time within a month. We need to realize that this is necessary. I just don't understand because the doctors are going to lose this, the physical therapists are going to lose this and the one who needs this is going to lose. Those who seem to make money are, of course, Iceland's health insurance and the state, saving themselves money. But if it's savings, I don't see what it's supposed to be like. I'd also like to point out that by opening swimming pools and getting these things right, we'll reduce sleeping medication, painkillers, and other things. I'm very concerned that medication will increase now if we don't start doing something because there's a large group that needs to be moved and get to like this. ... swimming.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before you brings up an issue of the importance of exercise. Of course, you are absolutely right. One senator says that it is important for people to have the opportunity to move in the richest way, especially those who are experiencing some form of movement barrier. I'd like to, because I assume, Mr President, that this is my last chance under this discussion, thank you very much. Councilmen and president for joining me in giving the opportunity to discuss these matters. Now we were able to talk about vaccines and what they all look like in Iceland. The bottom line is that we have secured the purchase of vaccines, we have prepared presentations, we have prepared the transfer, we have prepared the vaccination program, so we are ready for vaccination for Covid-19.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u57	A respectable president. Reasons may be made to conclude that there are times when there is a particular need. Congress officials have gone a long way in their queries and reports requests. This is not the case. I want to take this opportunity to thank them. Council members responsible for this report request. This is no less than the most orphaned international contract in Iceland. I hope that when the report is published, it will, and that is the goal, attract the pros and cons of the project, lead to this agreement, and who are responsible for it. I hope so, a respectable president, and I am convinced that the report can be a good, objective basis for discussing these important matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u58	It's good to hear how pleased the minister is with his file request.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u59	A respectable president. What the Great Depression has taught us in the past century, particularly the sentences of the Smoot-Hawley Law in the United States, is that when nations try to cope with economic events and protect national markets through the rise of customs, it leads to progressive business practices that reduce international exchanges, which can then extend and deepen the economic crisis. That's what we should keep in mind. Of course, we're supposed to be very supportive of agriculture, but we're not supposed to do it with customs. We're more of a direct source of support, e.g. through a agricultural scholarship, as we have suggested in the resurrection. I support this request because I believe it is the democratic right of members of Congress to make such a request. I ask people to remember that it is important to support free and open business, but in this matter, as with many other freedoms, there seems not always to be a broad range of support within the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u60	President. The problem with tapeworms, such as museum bills in everyday speech, is that they sometimes mix very bad and very good things, which make it hard for us, at least We're paying a vote on the whole thing. Economic and business committees, led by what? paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, the son of Káll, has made once more adjustments and adjustments in the proposals made by the government, especially on the response to the Covid epidemic. However, this is primarily a matter of increased budgets, tax and remuneration, which affect the general public and, in some cases, outweigh the benefits. Thus, this whole matter cannot be supported, and some of its articles are very dangerous.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u61	Mr. President. We in the United States will not pay for this bill of our vote. However, we will take a positive view of the changes, both from the greater part and from the smaller parts, that we believe are improving. There I can specifically mention changes in income - loss laws, which truly improve and come from the greater part. Then I'd also like to point out a suggestion made by the United States, which goes on to raise the pay market for disability, which has remained unchanged since 2010. The management teams want to extend, and they have the same 11th consecutive year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u62	Mr. President. This proposal will go to the highest level. In view of the June report of Iceland's Economic Institute for Economics and Economic Affairs, a review of the total increase in carbon taxes has been made in the history of this government. Sadly, this report has not received enough attention, but its main results are that the tax affects the poor and adversely affects the benefits and consumption of the poor. The reason for the tax has to be reasoned better. Economic institutions say that the tax has to be very high to function and that once the carbon tax is laid, domestic production and employment are reduced. So it is clear, Mr. President, that the report is a sentence against the government's carbon tax policy and confirms what the Central Party has always said about that tax. This is not a prerogative to put taxes on the public when there is no success and to take the worst out on the poor people and the inhabitants of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u63	Mr. President. The climate is a real problem. It needs to be fought with all the necessary measures. One factor is the use of taxation, including carbon pay. Therefore, reveries suggest that this road will begin to increase these costs and suggest that 2.5% will be raised by this time by 5%. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u64	Mr. President. There is no need to say that the food field in the country has suffered an enormous load and that it is highly emphasised, though hardly enough, to get it up again. This restoration suggests that the fall from raising the amount of alcohol, which is certainly burdensome and unnecessary in these times. Yet, there is plenty of time for this industry to deal with. We suggest that this time there will be no raise of alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u65	Mr. President. The free income market is now just under 110,000 dollars. in the year and has not increased since 2010. If that amount had been paid for it, it would be about 200,000 bucks. per month. We suggest a very modest two - step change, so in 2021, the pay line goes up to 150,000. But it goes $200,000. in the year 2022. Of course, the administration of this government is extremely unusual, and we see it in this bill where the tax limit due to the genetic tax, also set in 2010, is increased by 233%, but the pay paid level is replaced by a remuneration cut. It is a priority that will appear in this bill, and such priorities will appear in the days following in another prime event from this government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u66	President. Here we vote for a higher rate of application, an interesting increase in the management of the majority of the Committee. It is a natural arrangement. Of course, religion and principles should collect their own membership fees so that we should cancel the parish laws instead of the government paying more than 12,000 dollars. on the social expenses of an individual in a life- or religion. I suggest that we simply say no to this and we prefer to throw these laws out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u67	A respectable president. I'm part of a lot of what's wrong. A committee who makes this suggestion and, of course, supports it. In the long run, you can talk about it whether it's right that we collect social fees for the Church and other religious and biological institutions or if they should do so in some other way. But here we are talking about important correction of the parish fees, and I think it's important that we stand up and speak for the Church and other religions of our lives. It is of regular importance in our current year's journey that we enjoy the services of these vital organizations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u68	Mr. President. Unemployment is a lot of trouble. Compromising is also a problem if they drive excessively. The proposal for restoration is that the business that hires people of unemployment, or when they're unemployed, will temporarily get a half - price on the insurance bill next year. It will work with two things: The companies will be able to hire people and people will be given better opportunities to get a job. This is urgent, and I hope it's approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u69	Mr. President. Here, a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee is putting down subsidies on link trucks, not down by year, but next year's discount continues at 9 60,000 dollars. instead of 600,000 bucks. every car. This is done according to the Driver's Tip. That same thing happened about a year ago when a minister of finance suggested that subsidies simply end up having yielded enough results. The committee arrived to extend them by two years, back to the beat of the Driver's Tips. The cost of a government fund on this will run at hundreds of millions and more has not established a climate benefit in order to justify this change, which could easily be more effective in combating climate change by other means. Iceland is at the point where energy exchange cannot be considered as a priority for increasing subsidies on fossil fuels. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u70	Mr. President. The proposal is to postpone a year's balance of up-to-date credits. The main reason why this is suggested is that it is not necessary to repair the economic situation where difficulties are present. The change is in itself fine, but I don't think it's time. A full reexamination laws must also be taken. That is why I believe that the observance of this law should be postponed for a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u71	Mr. President. I want in context of the bill that we vote here to reiterate the views established by Iceland's Generous Community in the process of reporting. Their viewpoint was not taken into account when the bill was being consulted. The Alliance is critical of the project, i.e. permission and surveillance. The changes presented in the bill are presented, not in the user's name, but in the industry. It is not acceptable to be monitored by agents who do not have knowledge of the basics of universal design and even give discounts on it, that they are people who build and then dislodge the property. The demand for universal design is often disfellowshipped, and it suffers. There must be independent witnesses who are holding surveillance for the construction of workers. I'll be yellow in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u72	A respectable president. On the international day of disabled people, we can again confirm that we are to follow a universal design. We are to make sure that the construction of buildings is not made in use unless all can access them. I sincerely hope that the arrangements of this committee will be made once and for all, i.e. not to be used without access to all; not to be decommissioned, to think of making a assessment two or three years later, and not to be, e.g. and properly arranged elevators and things like that. I really hope that this message is made clear, i.e. the law must be followed so that all can have access to buildings.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u73	A respectable president. The meeting's schedule is in place. I know members of Congress are meeting with the Supreme Court. President. We've faced the council, and we've accepted that our freedom of speech has, in part, been impaired through the Covid epidemic. We have a limited meeting period, and it is with the intent that we can concentrate on matters that primarily involve the economy, the economy of a nation, and the well - being of a nation. I want to direct it to the President, and at the same time to the council, to prioritize matters here at the council at a valuable time until Christmas is primarily for the sake of economy, employment, and the welfare of a nation. I think that's how we should set our priorities. I think that the government's pet project should be put aside only instead of bringing them for 15 minutes before Christmas during these difficult times. I second that we should prioritize matters that involve our economic, professional, and national well-being.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u74	The president would like to say that recent discussions and consultations on the preparation of meetings have been successful and very effective. The president is grateful to the council presidents for this cooperation. The day's schedule is designed to form such a way today that it is only possible to discuss what has already been received from committees, called New Year's or Covid's. They are kept in first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u75	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a commission on bill confirmation of state balance by 2019 of a greater portion of the legal committee. This is now stated for the third time, but the fact that the approval of a government account was not directly confirmed by the General but indirectly by the approved end-of-the-final budget, which was granted permission to bring management supplies and the excess fees between year and year for individual Member States. The bill in itself is simple in this regard so that it involves two legal branches, pars. the confirmation and 2nd paragraph. ... abouttheseparation. This means that the Council confirmed the government account, while the bill is based on 58 st. a law on official financial matters, which states that a minister should submit a bill at the General Assembly to confirm a federal account. The report with the bill will discuss the results of the account and explain the variation of income, spending, and loans from the approval sources of the General Assembly. In this context, it can be noted that in a specific overview in the financial balance of No. 16 It's in the back of the government bill, is detailed, divided by institutions, reviewed by the end of the year, and the transport of sources. The Constitution has revised the account according to law No. 46/2016, of the State accountant and review of state accounts, and in accordance with international government revision standards. A government accountant has signed the account without warning. It is the opinion of a government accountant that the account helps to illustrate the financial status of the state of 31st December 2019, the survival of a government fund by 2019, and the change in handable funds in 2019 in accordance with official financial laws. The law on public financial matters made extensive changes in the terms of government funds. Part A of the state funds is made up on the basis of international accounting standards for public members of the network called the IPSAS standard. The bill's report discusses differences between accounts. The presentation and classification according to the international economy standard, the GFS standard, is the classification and presentation as 1. g. the budget's what we're talking about. Both stations are designed to ensure consistency and international control ability, but the emphasis is different. According to the IPSAS standard, the accounts are consistent with the focus on economic management and state. That's what we normally look to when we look at corporate business to create. The situation allows us to assess financial resources, sharpen the authority's responsibilities, and increase transparency for operating decisions. The GFS global report standard, on the other hand, assesses the economic impact of public financial policy, distinguishes its impact on the entire economy and on decision making in public finance. The bill is clearly attracted to the difference in land management. It is positive about 42.3 billion and then, according to the GFS standard, which we look at in financial terms, but it is not attributed and decried at a lifetime rate under the GFS standard, it is immediately reimbursed with a total of 240.8 billion dollars. CYP3A4 induction by tipranavir/ritonavir. Then there is a different method of government profits that affects the reduction of 58.7 billion. Both yield less than a GFS standard but a different set of guidelines otherwise weigh about 2.5 billion for an increase, thereby giving an improved yield. Thus, at a total of 81 billion dollars, the result is less than that. According to the GFS standard but according to government account. The induction of standards has not yet fully been completed, but an explanation of 2 with a governmental account gives further explanation. The implementation of the standards is based on an IPSAS standard protocol. 33, but the standard has various postponements and exceptions. The introduction of six standards has been postponed and is more likely to be considered in a state accountant's review report to form and list in this article. The role of the State Department of Accounts, which operates according to Article 63. the law on public financial matters, is to make decisions about the induction of accounts and the subject of opinion relevant to them. The advice has been adopted to postpone the full implementation of standards due to the scope of the change and various complications. The account accounts explain the reasons and the expected effect of the deferral. As stated earlier, the total recovery by the IPSAS standard was positive by 42.3 billion k. Compared to 84.4 billion dollars. The year before. Industry income was 830 billion. and budget 809.2 billion. or 20.8 billion k. less than your income. The growing equation was negative at about 56.7 billion. But to the contrary, sharing in the survival of partners and communities was positive at 78.3 billion dollars. So, then, the result is positive by some 42.3 billion dollars. Of the share of state funds to the survival of partners, about 13 billion dollars are the greatest. for Landactivation, 15 billion dollars. U.S. Bank, 7 billion bucks. From Iceland Bank and 22 billion dollars. ... atService Bank. A combined display will then be included in the leading aluminium sheet. The report goes over to the balance account, the development of debt, funds, income, and expenses. The degree of variation in total above 1 billion K will also be considered more closely over the degree of variation in individual areas. The Commission has also received information on the transfer of funds from year to year, and it calls attention to the fact that according to a statement 16 by bill, the posts appear at the end of 2019 that are transferred to 2020. The review shows that these end points of the year and the transfer of documents to institutions, but government financial laws specifically measure how to handle the end of the year depending on the financial resources involved. For 30th. a law on government finance states that expenses beyond the annual budget will be reduced from next year's budget. It also states that if the legal rights have not been fully renovated, a ministerial servant may request that a reduced budget be set aside in the next year. This does not apply to those who depend solely on economic terms, scale, or other factors that do not subject to the decision of a minister. It belongs, for example. We're on top of most public insurance terms. The review report of the People's Accounting and the State accountant's review of the case shows that there is no basis for verifying a financial account by accepting the bill as it is submitted and in accordance with the law. The signature of a government accountant with the accounts shows that he will further explain to the Council the results of the review in a special report. According to Article 4. track No. 46/2016, with a head accountant and a review of state accounts, and with a score of 59 p.m. track No. For official financial reasons, 123/2015 takes the workspace of a state accountant to review terms and annual accounts of the Member States. The result of the review is that government funds have been successful in all the main points during the year 2019 and by the end of the year, the financial situation of the State was stable. The financial standing of the state is good where property depends well on debt, but there is no final assessment of large property and debt. Government account for 2019 was published in July. and in September the President's review was published. According to Article 16. track No. 46/2016, of national accountants and review of accounts, shall be made up of reports, reports and revisions to state reviews and reviews, as well as to highlighting factors that are considered to be necessary to investigate and improve. The results of the review report include 29 points of particular interest. It has to do with financial information in general, the tips of signing public accountants, public financial laws, property assessments and information on property evaluations. It also discusses internal surveillance and the procedure of accounting, internal review and the classification of the State's activities. The review report is self-involved and is being followed by indications and comments made from year to year. It has been customary for a financial committee to review the results of this report specifically and to bring in a public accountant's meeting to discuss the report. The Ministry of Economics and Economics has already covered a wide range of guidelines and proposals for the State's Accounting. It was noted at a meeting of the Government Review Committee that the Ministry had specifically reviewed the accounting treatment of the real estate and road system by the State's Economic Office, a council was submitted to review a report of the State's Reconclusions during the continuation of international accounting standards in the public, whether it is right to review specifically the V. section of the O. on official financial legislation, No. 123/2015, in accordance with needs for the induction of accounts and the comments of Our State's Accounting, and that the Ministry intends to complete most regulations according to Article 67. legalize public finances over the next few weeks. Let us hope that we finally complete that assignment. Over the past few years, most of the Committee has been treated as a result of confirmation of a GDP. There are, however, two indications, a respectable president, which I would like to clean up for myself. This is a reference to the need for the bill itself, the bill for its confirmation, and the review report to be published at the same time as before. There's been a lot of time between our delivery of the balance bill and then our review report. On the one hand, there is evidence that the need for financial and economic services to give as early as possible the regulations for the transfer of funds between the years and at the age of 30 p.m. the law on official financial matters shall be set up by the Commission to agree with the WHO budget. In addition to the above indications, the greater part gives the full reason to follow up specifically on a number of State Review Directives. First, the evaluation of the success of government law points to the fact that there is still no final work to set up all the regulations outlined in the law. A public review also points out that the section V of the law has to be specifically reviewed, which deals with accounting and reporting. Second, there is still still little need for adequate property management and public information about them and the land owned by the State. Third, the importance of internal review is shown by a greater proportion of stakeholders. It is defined as an independent and objective confirmation and counselling designed to be a worthwhile and improved government management. In this regard, it is noted that the Landspians, the most successful government agency in Part A, do not have a review committee or internal review. The majority suggest that this should be adjusted as soon as possible and that the Ministry first implements an internal review directive in accordance with 65.g. it's a government law. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Hv. Senators Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Páll Magnússon were absent from the case but signed in accordance with Numbers. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson writes in advance. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: He that stands here, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Árnadóttir, Eurrah, Bjarkey Olsen, Gunnarsdóttir of Gunns, Páll Magnússon, and Ágúst Ólafur Ágúst, son of Ágústsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u76	A respectable president. There are several things that would be nice to consider in this account. Let's start with accounting treatment of real estate, as we've been considering here, renovations, etc. For a relatively long time, we have been dealing with a particular land contract with the National Church, the church meeting so - called, outlined in budgets, and are nearly 4 billion. There is a commitment linked to the agreement with the ground delivered at the time of the agreement. Since we're still paying off the contracts - we're actually paying for the ground to understand that - you'd think you could go into the real estates that fall there and see the commitment to the agreement, how much is left of the commitment and the like. But all our questions to the Ministry of Economics are shrugs. No one knows what land was given to the State or what valuable food would follow behind it. When the government does not know what real estate it acquired, it is paying billions of dollars a year for commitment to that contract, you wonder whether it is being strictly well cared for by the government's property and how it actually works out on public financial matters. How should this be settled? In case of a moment. The chairman of a legal committee could only discuss our problem in return if it were accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u77	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry on the treatment of real estate, land and possessions. I wouldn't call this a problem. This is certainly an assignment. It is certainly a matter of how to evaluate the State's property in accounting and then in the production of accounts. I'd like to refer to the tip we have in a committee party, where we've called for more information about the administrations of property, official information about them and land owned by the State. That's exactly what you can say. A senator referred to the church meeting that he referred to. There is truly a agreement between the state and the church in effect. We have called for information about these assets and land and how they are treated. It's shocking that we haven't been informed. I agree with what. A senator in it. And we will continue to call for that information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u78	President. One article in this contract contains laws for 15 years, which are not legal under official financial law. In accordance with e.g. Government policies, 20. a law on government finance, which we've had a word about in the past how it's not being met, I don't understand how a government accountant can tell us on the budget that the financial bill is in accordance with official financial laws. I don't know how it works. We have often considered it here in discussions about budgets, financial plans, and why. The chairman of the budget committee has agreed with me on certain issues relating to e.g. The government's policy is lacking, and cost-and-exploitation analysis, alternative analysis and the like are not being carried out. [[The president calls.]] It's missing. How, therefore, can it be said that this is in accordance with official financial laws? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's question. Hv. A senator points to 20. and the five-year rule of service contracts. We have asked this question, how is it possible that this is an agreement until 15 years, and referred to this law for five years? Then we have the answers that this is not a five - year service contract. Rather, it is an old arrangement that has that long period. I really have no more answers than the ones we've been given when we've asked that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u80	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and wanted to establish only the government's budget by the year 2019, which was marked by my judgment of a massive expansion and a lack of council despite a clear sign of a recession in the economy. Sadly, the increase in government spending for 2019 was out of the question. Hence, the government was forced to submit an additional budget in that year. Under government law, they should have been no more at that time. It is hardly surprising, then, that the payment in a government account shows 67.4 billion dollars. Worse than budget 2019. According to accounts, the recovery of the financial foundation, as mentioned, was at a negative rate of 38.9 billion. Under the laws of 2019, the state's budget was to yield a positive supply of 28.6 billion. This worse result from recovery is largely explained by the overrated income of 63.5 billion. ... ofTwenty19. I have to say, Madam President, it is quite clear that the government's government's budget must be a disaster in the face of such a huge overestimation. I have to ask you what. A senator and the chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Þórsson, to see if he agrees with me in the fact that this practice and over judgment are really a bad practice. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. On the contrary, all I want to do is deny that this is a terrible practice. The next year's budget is based on economic forecasts. That's what we've got, and we're publishing it. True, on a financial committee, we try to figure out what other fortune - tellers say. You're absolutely right. One senator said that there was strong evidence that the economy was slowing down greatly, and many criticized that economic forecast was too optimistic. A careful step to the earth may be a good practice when it comes to assessing this from economic forecasts. What I can say, though, is what I can say. A senator is that if something was, we were putting ourselves in some kind of straitjacket, given the scope of the policy, we ran into it. On the contrary, when I say so. A senator refers to the bad tactics that are being used to cope with the financial situation, such as the accelerator now when we are in a very deep crisis. The same is true when we see that the economy is slowing down. Then we are under obligation to face this down cycle for the economy, for jobs, for homes. Even so, we were expanding the infrastructure in very many areas, but we were taking care to keep a balance in government matters. Neither were we getting ahead of ourselves in that regard, and that is what the figures tell us. So I refuse to talk about bad practices. On the contrary, the laws of the law reveal a reasonable government policy. But I can criticize the fact that we put ourselves in a straitjacket, as the financial counsel criticized us this year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u82	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is clear that during the latter part of 2018 and in the later part of the state's mass - speaking resistance program, when conditions of economic situation, as we are now, could have been more difficult and better, the government would have maintained their terms wisely when people saw that they were failing. Still, the cost of the city's expenses was excited to the limit. There, the government was simply in a state of denial of the economic situation at the time. That, in turn, explains a huge estimate of income. Then there are funding to save what was saved. I don't have a question to ask you. A senator, but we do not agree on this, how these matters were handled. [[The president calls.]] I just think that the results we see in this account in this account clearly show that there should have been a lot more caution in the government cases at that time than was done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists the question of financial matters. It is very important that we take this discussion even if this is not a direct inquiry. According to a government accountant, the balance bill gives us a clear picture of the state's status. I think it was one of the progressive steps in taking up the laws on government finance that we began to invest and not exchange everything in the same budget year. I'm just going to quote a state accountant himself who says that the financial standing of the state is good, where property depends on debt and benefits. This is very important. We have blessedly stressed the loss of paying off debt, so the resistance is at the financial level of the state's funds. That is why we can face this deep crisis as much as we really are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u84	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for a fine review of the balance and its connection. In itself, I don't make any comments about that. I think it's all done right. However, there is also history, and it cannot be overlooked that by 2019 it was not as practical as it could have been. In the past, this discussion has led to the loss of nearly 40 billion people on a government fund instead of nearly 30 billion leftovers. This happened, despite the fact that the economy was just under 2% in 2019, followed by one of the greatest economics of Iceland's history. Looking at the rearview mirror, I think it is inevitable to point out that men may have been fully self - visioned and fully committed to expanding the government's spending and business. It is always difficult to stay calm when things are going well, and then it is difficult to collect expenses when problems start. The question to what? The senator's next words are: Have we not reached the limit of the government spending? Had we not reached that stage as early as 2019 and the years preceding that time? And aside from everything that goes with Covid and what follows, it is not necessary to consider substantial measures in terms of government spending? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And after times, if they don't succeed, don't you think it's necessary to raise taxes?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. This, of course, is a major project, and especially ahead of time; I think that's exactly what it is about 2019. Then I'm going to answer the question about whether we haven't been in a tight position of 2019 and are referred to in the balance of government accounts. In fact, it is a sharing method for corporate renovation that explains the profits, otherwise it is a limp. A senator came in. Whether we're on the edge or not, I'm not gonna tell you. Careful is one of the baseline values, so is sustainability. I'm going to look at these values as soon as we like to talk about stability, which is one of the values. It's just that there's the big number of topics in the Book of State that grow in that way over the past few years, and they're gonna make it into the future, that it's in a much larger context than when we're trying to get a balance on budget every year with income and expenses. This is what we need to look at, and then I refer to the health system and two Departments, Health Ministry and Social Services, half of the 1,000 billion degrees. The nation is getting old, and we face very challenging social projects. There, we need to look at public health and other things like that. Thereafter, this severe crisis that we are going through will be most challenging for future governments to cope with stopping the debt collection and turning it around. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u86	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Indeed, it is true, that is, indeed, true. A senator points out, of course, that we have huge lawsuits, and many of these include that their scope will likely grow. Of course, I think there must be a greater need for us to lie down to the future on how we are going to live up to this. It is primarily a matter of ensuring economic growth and the ability to live up to it. That must be the job, and I know why. A senator agrees with me about this; the role of innovation, evolution, and so on. It must also be part of the process of reevaluating and wondering whether these larger systems could be better equipped, large systems that we are running, and whether it is not time to consider seriously which part of these systems would be better involved in other systems than the State itself. I'm not offering a private transfer. I'm considering a bigger role of private success in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u87	V.E.G. President. It is a sin to have just as short a time in the face of equally large questions. Of course, in our small economy, we could never avoid taking advantage of all the contributions and initiatives, whether it is the volunteer work everything, the organization, and all the valuable things in it or the private institutions. Consider an example from the medical system. I often think that discussion, somehow crystal, is what we're dealing with here. Everyone agrees that we should render the best possible service, as the law commands, the health - care laws, and that it is to be driven by the government. This does not mean, however, that we do not take advantage of our expertise in employment, in the community. [[The president calls.]] In some way, we're always messing with each other. I think we'll just have to, inevitably, do it. This results in efficiency. [[The president calls.]] We have no choice but to do this in the scope and capacity of the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u88	Madam President. This is my recommendation for Internal Affairs I.D. My section on bill to legalize State Review of 2019. Budgets are presented on the basis of the accounting base of national interest accounts, and the system is called the GFS economy standard supported by the World Bank, so this work is being carried on. Then a partial injection is presented. On the other hand, on the basis of an IPSAS account position, which has been mentioned several times in this discussion, it is international for public. There is a significant difference between emissions according to these methods, but there is a relatively small share in terms of terms, and I think that needs to be improved. There would be a great improvement in the discussions at the General Assembly on the budget of the State that there would be a greater explanation for the differences between these methods, because these are large amounts of money so that members of the Parliament can get a clear picture of the difference between these methods of making. In fact, it is sobering to consider why this is so. There is nothing but to complicate the discussion, and it does not provide the correct view of the state's position. To my judgment, a more detailed analysis of the abnormalities between these methods is needed in order for a person to see the difference and to understand its reasons. It's very important. Official review does not reexamine the GFS structure, i.e. the administrative status provided by the International Cash Fund, the national account structure. This, however, is far more important in all economic discussions. That doesn't revise Government Accounting. However, it reexamines the administrative account produced by the IPSAS standard which is international for public authorities and is supported by many countries. As noted earlier, these two methods give different conclusions. As we know, government accounts are very important in all economic issues and in terms of government control, its institutions and its funds. Now, when we discuss a budget by 2019, we see that there were a number of problems that took place in that year, and there were, in fact, quite a downturn in the latter part of 2018. There were shocks, there was a hairy failure, and then a large airline was bankrupt, which took about 35% of passengers to the country. At the same time, the government was in denial with this situation, excited the bow to the limit in financial matters, and in that respect, I believe that in view of their circumstances, the economic situation was not reasonable. I'll come in better after that, Madam President. I think it would be desirable, and, in fact, I've directed it to the highest. Secretary of finance did so in opposition to this discussion, and to the extent of improving the details of the deviations between these refinements, as stated on page 5. 8 in cash account. I also think it is important that according to national accounts and analyses of the abnormalities with the IPSAS account be revised by neutrals, accountants trained for such activities, instead of being discussed without reevaluation of national interest or expenditure. I think it would be most desirable for this to be examined very closely, who is taking part in this because a government inspection is not taking care of this task. State account does not include major analysis of business problems, and it compares with the goals set in government management. Although such analyses appear in the reports of the Ministers who are being prepared each year, I think that the analysis for those who read the accounts will be greatly improved, although these accounts are in harmony with the IPSAS method, the International Organization. I think it might be a great improvement and an improvement in the quality of this discussion to publish such measurements in terms of government bills. By the bill we're discussing here, the Council is going to confirm a state bill, but, as mentioned earlier, it is made according to the IPSAS, the International Calculation Standard, which is theocracies of state funds and of various countries. Therefore, the Constitution is revised by Government Accounting in accordance with the rules of revision. And then we come back to the law. They are presented to the expressed national accounts, GFS, the international standard covered by the International Cash Fund. It is particularly possible to compare countries with economic and economic growth in many countries in a comparable way. That's why this standard is international. The contribution is not revised by Public Reexamination as I previously traced; the Agency re-evaluates a revision according to the IPSAS accounting standard. There is no need for ever so many of the importance of GFS, especially in comparison with other nations that we would like to compare with, how we will be successful in the economic affairs. In contrast with other nations, this is a highly important method of production, but concern arises that the results of a projection will not be comparable to the revisions made by accountants. That is why, I believe, my 1st, and the Central Party's representative of the budget, it is important that full review and full signature of the GFS show be made. I would like to strongly encourage the secretary of finance and economics to respond. This is important for the entire discussion, and it will become clearer and better production. Having about two ways of doing things, and just one of them is actually being revised doesn't give the right impression of the state's status. In my opinion, I have a chapter that the government has overlooked the cooling of the economy. There is clear evidence in the 1990's that the economy was slowed down and the status of the state funds was getting worse. There were many signs in that regard; no one was missing and the government should have been the least to pass over. As I said at the outset, there was a failure of fur, which cost the society several billion in exports, and then the WOW airline was bankrupt, which had become very intense and moved about 35% of passengers to the country. This had a tremendous impact on tourism in the country and export revenues. Expecting that other airlines would quickly make their move, of course, was a major blow to the Southnes especially, the professional stage there, yet another blow to the Southnes. Thus, bone and secondary effects of these events were uncertain. However, the government's budget for the year 2019 was marked by a great expansion, and I would like to say, Mrs. President, lack of council despite a clear sign of a recession in the economy. The government was very aware of that, especially WOW's airline for what is heading and really for months. Having not lived in the best interests of what was due to come, it is natural because the drawings were clear. It was very clear what was going to happen and what would have been the consequences of this nation's sudden fallout of 35% in bringing tourists to the country because this airline had become very important. The lack of efficiency in the budget before 2019 is striking. A clear and measurable goal for the provision of funds simply lacked and the budgets for 2019 C.E. were far too transparent, in my opinion. The task ahead is, of course, changing the budget. That is what we should learn from this so that they will be more beneficial than they are today. I have to say, I don't think that these items have been made so much better since I sat down at the council and since I started working on a budget for the Central Party. I've always been from the start, since I've been on the committee, talked about the need for things to be more beneficial, and it would make it easier for members and members of the committee to figure things out, figure out the results, and what it will be when we put money on the other guys and these aspects of the government. All of this needs to be more beneficial and easier to produce. It helps all work, and it is necessary for one to make informed decisions and to see and to learn better. Thus, after careful reviewing this case, it can be said that the increase in the state budget for 2019 was inexplicable. It's just that way. Hence, the government was forced to provide additional financial laws that, under government laws, should have been history at that time. I'm going to step back to the next chapter of the commission entitled "A gross overrated by the Bank of State. " It is not surprising, in view of what I've traced here, that the budget in 2019 shows 67.4 billion dollars. Worse than budget 2019. This amount is extraordinary, and according to accounts, the financial foundation was negative by $38.9 billion. Under the laws of 2019, the state's budget was to yield a positive supply of 28.6 billion. Much of the overrated results are explained by the worse results. The budget was overrated in 2019, with a total of 63.5 billion dollars. Then, Madam President, is there something wrong with government planning when income is so overrated? I said in answer to what. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, president of the budget board, felt that this plan on the part of the government was pure and direct when it was such a huge over-employment of revenues. He didn't agree with me in that, and it's just as it is, but the numbers say theirs, and there's nothing that can be done to them. It was known that one of the large airlines was very poor and was headed for bankruptcy, and it was known for months to what was coming and to earn money for government funds because it was clear. Then they also called the Flaming Flamard, which was on the other side of the corner. But the government chose to ignore it. I think it's a good thing, Madam President, that people don't live in the best interests of what's to come, but they're going to wear it all to the bottom. There were many times in this symposium, in connection with the budget and other such, that the government was pressing the bow very high and would not be looking at the fact that there was a breakdown. In the latter part of 2018, it was beginning to decline, and the mass - speaking resistance of the State could have been greater. How important it is for us today in the economic pressures we have been experiencing! It is especially responsible for the policy of the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougson, the then prime minister, who laid the basis for the bank's returning what was in their state funds. It had a great deal to say about the fact that they were able to pay off the debt of state funds very quickly. How important it was when we faced the economic problems we have been facing for several months! The State's debt rate of GDP was substantially reduced, and this is especially due to that action. The economic collapses of financial institutions in the past made it possible to pay the State's debt very quickly. That was a wise arrangement. It is always a wise provision to make a minimum of debt and to make a contribution for the thin years we have had to cope with the past few months. I believe that this resistance might have been more advanced and that the government would have kept the government reasonable in terms of the government's budget. According to economic accounts, $337 billion increased debt. of 2018, a total of 1,947 billion. at the end of 2019 C.E. Of course, this is a huge amount of money, this is more than a 20% increase in debt in no longer time, and it shows that my warrant is that the government's financial policy has not been sufficiently cautious as it should have been. At the end, Madam President, I'd like to introduce to you only what I mention in the Commission, an unfunded pension commitment, a project that we have to take seriously and address in a regular way. It hasn't been done. Let us see that by the end of 2018, except for those unfunded pension bonds of some 722 billion dollars. This is a very large, priceless amount, and commitments increased by 12% during this period of more than the previous two years. It is also thought - provoking. Thus, an unfunded pension debt of less than one quarter of the gross domestic product last year. That's way too much money. The government and the General must provide a credible plan on how these pension bonds will be financed for the future. A vital part of the government's financial administration is to have a good perspective on how this will be paid to the future because these commitments cannot be avoided. Inexpensive Penitentiary increased by more than 20% between 2015 and 2016 and about 17% there before. These numbers are simply too high, and we have to get a grip on these issues. It is a concern for government funds that these commitments increase year after year, and money has not been regularly put aside because of them. The responsibility of financial management is that a plan is set up on which to pay off debt and thus pay the debt of Pension and then live by it. This has not been done, and for this reason, the unfunded debt of pension has increased by 722 billion by the end of 2019 C.E. It is very important that this is done well in terms of government accounts. Madam President. I've traced the main thing in my committee magazine, the committee's opinion of the Central Party's representative on budget 2019. The thing about this is that the money in the state funds has been overrated, I've gone over it here. In addition, it is quite clear that the government of this period, the latter part 2018, and the year 2019, looked past the cooling of the economy. There was clear evidence that the economy was becoming somewhat cold. Yet, the paybow was as excited as it could be. That is why I view the budget for financial administration at this time as a failure. It just shows this tremendous overassessment that the yield was 67.4 billion worse in terms of budgets. This worse recovery, as I traced, is explained by the fact that most of our income was overrated in 2019 budgets by some 63.5 billion. This is the main outcome. It is impossible for humans to deny that there have been significant derailment of government planning here, and we have to get our hands on these matters. It is quite clear that in the year 2019, and that I'm going to have my last words here, clearly indicates that the government chose to overlook clear signs that the economy was in a rapid recession. Thus, there should have been a far greater measure of caution in the budget during the latter part of 2018 and in 2019 C.E.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u89	President. It's interesting to review the entire 2019, from budgets out of the year, and now to give a annual account and a review report. We are going over it in December 2020, a two - year process from the proposed budget of 2019 to 2018. At all this time, funds have been handled very freely, if you can put them that way. We can just give examples of how to handle funds and the inevitable and unpredictable financial resources that have been searched where we have found quite a few criticisms. We can also consider what I've been most critical of, but that is the chapter on government policy, the missing cost-and-a-cure analysis and the need for a choice analysis, the basis for all work at baseline transparency and safety, and the conditions that we see in the public financial law. When we receive our revised report, when we receive our annual bill, you ask yourself, " How important is the work of a legal committee to review how financial resources were treated in the past? ' Well, we've done quite well with our annual account in 2017, but I think we did. Then we went to several meetings where we considered expenses on each subject field, etc. Maybe the Covid excuse is right now, but I don't think it's such a good excuse. I wanted to roll up with something. A member of the Committee's work on this, just in general. There is a measure of respect for the financial resources given to the council, how the Committee treats requests for financial rights, and how the Council handles the capital and how it reflects the process we take into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u90	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for an interesting reflection on the work of the legal committee. When we discuss the results of the money we place in the various aspects of the government business, of course, we should ask ourselves, " Am I making wise use of the money and the results? ' I think that work might be done in a much more efficient way than it is now. I agree with that. Senator, we haven't had much stitches on the money we're discussing in this bill. Hv. A senator named Covid, the virus epidemic, if that was the reason. Rather, I think it is important to carefully review what happened in this process. We see, as I traced earlier, that in the latter part of 2018, there was a downturn, and there's nothing to do about it. The bow is just excited to the limit, and the cost will be much more. Then you realize that there is a tremendous lack of income, and you need money to make up for it. Then we will return to that pleasant subject as a matter of course. A senator mentioned earlier, we can spend a lot of time discussing expenses that have no place in money. I can get in more after that. But I agree whole with that with what's happened. A senator said that he should have made much more time for this work. The legal committee is responsible for promoting confidentiality in the financial affairs of the State. Therefore, the committee should carefully review their work and consider the results.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u91	President. I just reviewed one of the examples that appeared to us in the 2019, the final outcome, and so I'm now having a problem with the payment of budgets for 2021, which is the subject of the Land Hospital of University Hospital where we ended up in sliding at the university hospital of 3.8 billion or so in 2019 due to collective agreements and reperfusion problems, that we are told, and a variety of other things, but at least the largest ones. This affects how we deal with the budget for the next year. Somehow it wasn't a problem before 2020, maybe because everything is so late, e.g. the annual reports of the Minister's last year and the budget board did not discuss them much either, but they're relatively useless when the policy measures of cost-benefit analysis are not being done and all, but on it the annual reports have to be based, and we can say: "If we did so well in policy management and made it extremely beneficial and good, we can actually say in the annual reports that the budgets have yielded good results. But when this is not done, it is not possible to say anything in the annual report and nothing to discuss with a budget committee, so that we are now, for the payment of budgets for 2021, to interfere with the year 2019 of the Land Hospital, which is quite remarkable because we have not yet received recognition that these are the factors responsible for the compromise, i.e. that the Ministry of finance underestimated the cost of collective contracts for the hospital, which is indirect to the hospital, and which we should, of course, take up here as a legal case and say, "No, this is not going to work. We have to fix this. But we are in this position now in payment of government bills by 2019, with this headache in the payment of budget 2021, and it sees who man, I think, that the budget and funding are in terms of this in total disrepute of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u92	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent answer and meditation that are most legitimate and good to include it in this discussion because when the budget is missed in this way we have seen it, it will be a chain-based influence into the next budget and the next budget, and so on. We can see this in the affairs of Lands Hospital, like a sanatorium, at a university hospital. A senator rightly referred to this as a very good example. Then I would like to mention another medical example, which is typical when people fail to see the results of the funds. There are the waiting lists in various procedures, such as replacement procedures and such. And in spite of growing funds, there is nothing to work on. Patients are being sent off to operations that can be done here at home for a much smaller amount of money. These are just things that are very necessary for a financial committee to oversee very carefully and to require that these be handled normally. There is no way that the Ministry of Health can decide to choose measures that are much more expensive abroad when they can be done here. We must stop such treatment on public funds. There are a number of things that have to be done in this work, and I've been doing it in my speech here in connection with government accounts that it is quite clear that it is not working when income is overrated to 60 billion dollars. Everybody sees that there's something wrong with this job when things like that happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u93	President. I didn't sign an opinion in this case, no more than anything, because when I looked at an update report and an opinion in it and it was said that this was in accordance with the government law, I threw it in the garbage, it's just bullshit. This is not in accordance with official financial laws. Anyone who wants to read the law and the procedure will see it. If we are not honest with our mistakes or shortcomings and what is lacking in them, nothing will ever be better. Then we are getting back into the same routine and become aware of the advantages offered by the public financial laws. This is usually a matter of public financial law. I have specifically discussed 20. Gr., government policy. But this also occurs in e.g. budgets approved here right now and should be due to unexpected events and such. But when it comes to offering suggestions in the budget, as was done in 2018 and 2019 and 2020, and it is obviously out of harmony with official financial laws. So when you see these comments, they judge themselves and I don't want to be involved, so simple. However, I'm going to review some points that I have called attention to in the 2019 budget and in general, and I've pointed to and discussed them in the answers as well. First of all, it is a contract made up under government laws. I've particularly called attention to at least one contract, but there are others. I had written inquiries to the minister of all agreements, and it showed that there are contracts that do not have time or duration that are not in harmony with 40. g. law on government finance, negotiations. It says that negotiations cannot really be made for longer than five years unless there is a specific evidence to support their long term existence, e.g. because it's a big investment agreement or an investment project or something like that, which can be very serious. But we are, for example. dealing with a contract that has been in progress since 1997 or 1998, when it was first started and was renewed recently to 15 years, not just to five years of age, but to 15 years of age. And it was not an attempt to back up why they needed 15 years of time. Naturally, a five - year contract should have been made that would only be revised three times or whatever it would be to make it up to 15 years if it hadn't made up the commitments behind that contract. It is making a delivery of churches to the State. It is a final list of many earths owned by the Church and the State today, and instead it is that the State pays the clergy's wages and so on. It's to pay for this list of churches that the State has obtained. Then, of course, one would ask: Who were these earths? By 2018, we had paid 42 billion for those earths, and we are expected to reach 50 billion today, about that time. If the list is there in front of us and we review the values on the ground and on the property underneath them, we should be able to compare, at any distance round about, to see if they have been renovated by property, by means of interest and by any means. Maybe it's these payments under the contract, in case of so little of the head chair or something like that, it'll take us 100 years to pay off, who knows? It doesn't matter, we just need to know. What is the list, what is the amount of money we are paying, and when do we complete this list of property that is now owned by the Kingdom? Besides all of that conservatively and so on, commitment to these agreements on this earth is a matter of rest. So if they are sold or anything like it, commitment will move or sell with the earth or change in a different way so that it will be updated, i.e. The contract has some value in return in these real estates. But we don't know which land these are. We ask, ask, and the answer has simply been, "I don't know. " The government funds, the executives, don't know which land these were. Yet, the project was carried out in 1984 and returned 1992, there was one and two report, I don't quite remember the dates of this project, went through all the Earth books, and I don't know what and what, deductions and plagiaries back and forth, far back to centuries. A list of all the ground for which a legal deed could not be found was published, which made the Church no longer owned the earth, i.e. Churches where no sale or sale was found, or anything like that, brought the earth somewhere else. This is a huge publication with a list of soils and real - estate assessments of some 1 billion dollars. In 1984, I think it was. It will be updated to about 3 billion on recent merits and perhaps more if you examine the development of a real estate science number. But this is a long way from the 50 billion that we have come up to pay for this church meeting. Despite the fact that this report exists and has been carried out by the government, it is not possible to answer what land these are that we are paying for at the church meeting, in the contract that is outlined in the budget and to settle in a financial account according to the civil law. It's very important. I view this agreement as simply illegal for a 15-year term. An illegal agreement simply does not exist. They can be ignored. Just as I can't negotiate from collective agreements in such a way that I negotiate for e.g. less pay or less pay. I can sign a contract that says there's a requirement for pay, but that law has nothing to say, it doesn't mean that there's a law saying anything else. This is one of the matters that make a government account not in accordance with the government laws on government law. Another thing I've wanted to look at recently, and I've been standing up against it. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson, a law on public finances, from policy level, and a year-old minister, is under operation. The process is to be followed by a government with its policy, saying, "This is what we're going to do. The government should say: This task is the best way to solve this problem, and other ways are worse because it costs more, because it takes longer to perform it, and the effect comes later, the improvement is smaller. There may be a lot of reasons. In any case, here is a list of possible solutions that we will consider. This is a cost and a gain from any of the ideas that existed and we made the way B, or something like it, because it came out best. This is supported by government policy, which provides the basis for our well - being with public funds. We are choosing the most practical ways in a variety of ways. Not only are we looking at what is cheapest but what is the best rights for people or other social gains that are not easy to measure in, but they are still trying to do it in some way. That means, for example. that PPP projects are called an even worse idea than a simple government venture, i.e. Government oers, where any person can participate but will not be involved in the risk of paying dues and such. Data show that, in general, it costs 25◯30% more to go on that type of project. Why should we spend more money on some project or solution than in any other possibility? Why are we spending so much more money? Just because it meets some kind of ideologies? Probably not. However, there are exceptions, since in certain larger and complex tasks, such projects can be more practical. This is exactly what it needs to be explained and say: In general, we don't go on PPP projects because they cost simply more than here is a special project, could be therefore or something like it, which works very well for a lot of different reasons that make it not the usual way it is, 25 30-30% more expensive. As we know, this is always distribution, some projects are inexpensive, others are much more expensive, and in average 25 to 30% more expensive. It also means that someone is cheaper. We want to observe it, too, and make that choice so as to be able to say: This is the best solution in this case. Not because it's ideologically good to go on PPP, but because it's really the best. That's the way the Pirantar works. Hence, we do not attach ourselves to the left or to the right or to the center. Rather, we are simply efficient, pragmatic, to our decisions. In the ideologies behind PPP, which some categories represent and find very beautiful, there are sometimes good solutions. That does not mean that we always choose these solutions. While ideologies say the market has good results, they don't always. He sometimes does, in certain circumstances, under certain rules, in preparation and competitiveness, etc. We choose these solutions, not always the final solution. Official business is sometimes very good, produces the best results, reaches the best deals. Compare health systems with e.g. The U.S., which is the most expensive health system in the United States, provides absolutely nothing more than a public system, where one party cares for the insurance but not many. It is a measure of efficiency that enables a good view of society to use that option because it is simply less expensive for everyone after all. In our health - care system, we are included in the 2019 City Hospital of University Hospital, which has a total range of 3.8 billion per person. This is very interesting, for under the laws on public financial matters, Ministers are to act immediately if it is a predictable management room for his institutions, his institutions. - Did they react? Not so you can see. At that time, practical projects were carried out, but they were in the opposite direction too. It was called Hicklu Project, because it was a design, a lack of nurses, a need for people because the hospital had problems with pay, because the nurses had been sent to a crime like that in the past. There was a designer at the hospital, a predictable designer, and the hospital actually had to take extra money, beyond financial resources, which is also very interesting and give this assignment to carry out legal projects. The first and final assignment of the hospital is to carry out legal tasks and do so according to the quality standards we ask for. But in this case, there was a need to be moved or to exceed the cost of operating. In fact, it is not a very good idea to overlook the budget because, according to the Constitution, money cannot be paid that is not legal for financial or financial aid. It seems like it's a bad custom to pay first and then ask, "Would it not be all right if we spent this money? That's how the dynamite is here, at the Commission's office on the budget. There is no respect for the fact that the council is at stake. It's behind the budget, asking: "We've spent hundreds of millions, haven't we? If the General agrees, it's a retrospective agreement: yes, that's fine, we would have agreed in advance anyway. Is that really so? Or would it have been better if government law had been applied and we had shown why this is the best solution? We do not know this because the decision to do one thing or another was made without showing the benefit. The benefits, e.g. In the Hoclu project, though, some of the problem of design was that it was possible to solve the problem. The result was successful, and why should the funds not be followed? The problem is, she didn't. Therefore the hospital is in the middle of a business hall, because the warrant didn't come behind. We are struggling in the accounts of 2019, which depicts the accumulated management hall for the increased cost of collective contracts, because of their genetic problems, because of the flow problem that has been talked about for many, many years and is not yet resolved. It's a government account of 2019, and we're talking about budgets for 2021 and there's no solution to this, either. It's not a new problem, but it's not being fixed. It's just that way. There is no clear picture that this is the problem, and if we bring this many new nurses, this much more home service, that problem will be solved. It's gonna cost a lot. Should we finance it? That's not even a question. There was no question about it 2019 and there is no question about it 2021. This is why I'm not on a committee party and I don't sign a budget of 2019, because it's not in accordance with official financial law. We are still dealing with the problem that appears to us in a government account, and he is not being solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u94	V.E.G. President. I listened to a talk. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson. I'm not coming up here to fuck with you. A senator on the subject - and still. Hv. A senator often gives very helpful tips, and that is to be said at the outset. Hv. A senator says that he does not agree with this bill on validation of a state bill because he does not agree with a government bill on public financial matters. It's just a distinction between our opinions. So I'm going to make it clear that the bill on validation is in full agreement with the official financial law, such as 58th par. it is a legal law on public financial matters. How Would You Answer? g., confirmation, and 2. .., the validation article - both the legal and the written articles, as defined in the paragraph, are in full agreement with the regulations. A government accountant, an FBI agency, shall be in accordance with Article 4. in the Act on Government Accounting reviewing state accounts and 59 p.m. Act on government finance, review. We examined the status of the review report only in our jobs and arranged for a government accountant to meet us to discuss the report. The review report is in accordance with Article 16. a law on a government accountant who explains the results and options for reforms. There's a side to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u95	President. When the Council is to agree with financial programmes, government laws require that financial programmes be in accordance with official financial laws. It is stated in that it simply claims in the Senate that it is a law of public law. That doesn't mean she does. And when the council, the major part, hits the button and says, "Yes, it's in accordance with official financial law, that doesn't mean it's true. And, yes, although the bill, these two or three lines, is in accordance with official financial laws, that does not mean that the 2019 government account was in accordance with official financial law. That's what I'm trying to criticize, that the source of the budget, their treatment, their design, was not in accordance with official financial law. Even if there's some bill that says, "It's in accordance with the financial law,'I just say, " No. ' The whole process we had been through since the bill was submitted 2018 has just not been in accordance with the law, and hence, none of what follows. In the case of Land Hospital, the local university hospital I've mentioned, it is very well stated in the bill that it does not explain why there was so much sliding in 2019. It's just that there's no explanation, which is supposed to be otherwise. This is not in accordance with official financial laws. Still, it's said: It's fine, which just doesn't work out, neither.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u96	V.E.G. President. But must we not look at the bill as it looks and see what it really means in accordance with the law on public financial matters? Hv. A senator seems to have made a decision not to agree with this bill because there is something else and something else in the process he did not accept. When we receive a bill of state, we show up in the big business; expenses and income, and account; property, debt, and financial status, with explanations and the like. Now it's just that a state accountant who has made a bill by the Generals has made it, without reservation, and has given his opinion that he will make a clear impression of what he is supposed to do. In accordance with all objective data,financial funds have brought their accounts into debet, credit, income, possessions, and debt according to incident. In the background, objective data are available. This has been revised by Government Accounting in accordance with the law. That's what we're talking about. And that's what we're going to vote on, to confirm this account. Somehow I'm left behind with the idea of what to do. A senator wants to revise the revision work of a state accountant.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u97	A respectable president. I had some questions about the State Review Report, and to be honest with you, I'm not satisfied with the answers that came. I asked the questions I had regarding government policy, and it was only a minor one, that it was not now as important as the 7th paragraph. and something like that, and there's nothing to worry about. With that expression, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures was saying that paragraph 20. According to them, and their work was of no consequence. I just completely disagree. I think it's something we should have a conversation about because it's our agency that is actually enforcing a particular quality check in our behalf and doesn't even ask us what we think is important, which is just a big deal, I think. I think 20. the law on government finance is one of the most important articles, not the financial rules and things that need to be taken away from each situation. But 20. is the basis for the quality of government funds that will give us the annual reports to explain why the funds have been well spent. If the beginning is missing, the end is junk. It's just that way. When I'm told by Government Accounting, I'm told it's 20. It didn't matter -- I'm talking, it wasn't a direct quote -- then I just make a lot of remarks from my job as a senator who's supposed to monitor the public budget. So, yes, I would definitely like to review the National Reexamination Report, since this argument is also not water - support.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u98	Madam President. As we have heard of the talks given here, you can talk about the money and there are all kinds of friends in this case. I'm not going to give a long talk. What I'd like to talk about is what I can't find in a government account. It may now be here, but I would like to direct it to the chairman of the committee, here in the hall, and before. The legal committee is considering these matters. That is the case in the 56th grade. a legal on public financial matters is being made up of several aspects of the prior federal account, in terms of the financial status of the A-part of the state funds, to be included. Step 7 says: Overseers that show the income of state funds from the use of resources in government prices and due to the limited rights of the government. The bill's report says of this 7th section: ▪...a complete overview of the income that the state fund has of the use of resources in the state market and for the provision of limited rights. This aims to show the development of income funds for the sake of the resources and rights that the State has to pay or to advise against. The idea of setting it up in the law was that we could just look into terms and see the complete overview of what our resources were doing. When we were working on the bill on public financial law, we obviously had the energy resources in mind, we were fishing for the resources and the large mails, and we could then monitor the revenues we got in the box because of these resources of the nation. I think it's extremely important that we be able to monitor the income flow and the development of these activities. I hope so. The chairman of a legal committee takes this into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u99	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. G. ItHarðardóttir a very interesting indication. I want to thank you too for that. A senator gave me a clue as to what she was going to include in her talk. I would not have been able to answer this straight from my head, but I had no way of thinking about this interesting indication, in line with 56 C.E. "Gr., like a cot. A senator entered, i.e. in this excellent tool that I had discussed with you. paritaprevir Leví Gunnarsson, a central review report by a government accountant greater than a standard review letter that follows the revision of smaller units. It is now in on page 18. 9 of the review report. Now there are two parts of the State bill, an overview of accounts, and a large explanation, and a latter part that specialises. As I understand this review in the review report, it is not consistent, in accordance with the guidelines for public financial analysis, with what can be shown in the latter part of the statement. It also points to the lack of information in the six standards that we set up only in committees, which have been delayed in accounting stations. It is my next assignment, to work out what accounts these accounts are exactly and what information is needed, and even to correct the information to become available in the first part. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Maybe I can explain something better in a later answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u100	Mr. President. I want to thank you. For this information, a chairman of the legal committee. I'll study this document from the State Accounting he spoke of. I think this is a very important part of the law. I know that in the beginning, the first years after the law went into effect, these men pushed only ahead of them. It was just supposed to be temporary, but it's sixth years. If there are any definitions missing, and if the Council needs to change any law, I think it would be good to encourage the committee to go to that job, take this into consideration, and review it with the experts on any of these shores in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u101	V.E.G. President. I'm going to go back to refer to this review in the state accountant's review report. It shows that in a number of chapters of the review report, there are more details in which the legal requirements are not adhered to. That leads to the 56th grade. ... tomakeacountofthecretcount. This is because there is no format and classification according to international economic standards, bank accounts which compare the accounts of the account year's account, the budget and the account number of the next year, and the lack of an overview of the state's revenues of resource use in perpetuations and the limited rights of the government as determined by the 7th count of 2.mg. 56. g. Hv. paritaprevir This is pointed out in her speech to Oddný G. Harðardóttir. Then a state accountant, with permission of the president, says: At present, there is no clear distinction between law analysis and the former and the latter part of the government account. Special statements, which include a financial bill and make up part of it, include the following: to the point that the law says should be in the first section of the account. They are expected to need information in accordance with the standards for setting in the first part on which special aluminium can be based in the second part. Then the work is ahead of calling for information on the exact accounting point, or more, depending on events, and what information we need. You're absolutely right, as hell. A senator points out, and it was at work in the wake of our accepting these laws. The budget, calling for this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this. I don't think this 7th section should be confused. and the rest of the subjects on standards. I think we can work more quickly to make this overall overview of the income of our resources than to go to the other team at 56 C.E. who have a lower number. I want to pray. A senator to investigate it and challenge it to do it quickly and well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u103	A respectable president. I'm here to present a commission from the Foreign Affairs Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has received his meeting with Bergþór Magnor Magnússon from the State Department and Jónas Birgir Jónasson from the Department of Transport and Division. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee. This is the decision of No. 168/2020 about the change in XX. Annex to the EEA Convention, an Annex on Environment, including entering the Treaty of the Council of the European Parliament and Council of 2019/631 to set the performance criteria for the release of carbon dioxide for new people and new, light job equipment and the breakdown of older regulations on these matters. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. Under this view, the one quoted here, Brontís Haraldsdóttir, along with me. Councilmen Sigríður Á. Andersen, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brjöllflfóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Shilgg Gunnarsdóttir Gunnirdóttir, Elíasdóttir Fjordur Fjörður Frit Friðbertsson, and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir. To say this in human language, the Paris Convention has to do with the Regulation. Our goal is to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles and reach until 2030. Just to review, because the environment sometimes, perhaps too seldom, is discussed here, in the Paris Treaty, was the goal of maintaining global climate rise from a industrial revolution below 2°C. Therefore, it is thought that the transport systems of all Member States will need to be tolerated so that carbon footprints will become lower and possibly nothing at present. The older regulations, beginning in 2009 and 2011, have been taken into account, but here the requirements are further increasing, and the regulations for which they are stated. Sources on the performance of carbon dioxide emissions from new vehicles are set up and have to be placed on producers of these materials. However, there will not really be any impact in this country where there are no driving producers here. In order to find out, we also feel that this is in full agreement with the current treatment of the EEA. At the time of the filming of an EEA contract, this was told by the Committee. Then we received reviews from the Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee, as well as the Commission and Control Committee, and there was no comment. So we suggest that this proposal be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u104	A respectable president. I recommend here for the bill to legalize the payment of an athlete's carol for the pay expenses of a crown virus epidemic. The bill is employed in the consultation of recruitment, sports and workforce, and is part of the government's operation to reduce the damage of a global sports society due to a pandemic crown so that the budget can resume its activities when the pandemic is over. The bill is aimed at paying for the pay of an athlete's partner, which is temporarily reducing, in part, or in part, the period between October 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021 due to official biohazard measures in the case of a colony's pandemic. It is expected that the bill will include a legal entity in Iceland's Italy and Olympian Union, including some departments working for the former legislators. It is thus suggested that the employment agency be allowed to pay pay the pay of an athlete during the period when it has been made necessary to eliminate activities to meet specific criteria. However, job-related benefits are expected to be excluded and therefore not to be paid by an athlete in the sense of the bill. The amount of money paid to pay is expected to be equal to the salary pay paid during the period when a sports club has been put down, although up to a maximum of 500,000 dollars. a month before every hired man in the month of Almanachah. A respectable president. I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that the bill, as it's presented here, applies to the salary payment of an athlete's club rather than to the payment of a contractor for a job in the interests of an athlete. As a result of the investigation, the conclusion was that what led to contractors and related things would go through a special development road that will be held by the Ministry of Education and Culture, which was specifically done by the Ministry of Economics. I think it's right to make this point, because I know that it will be discussed, and it's perfectly normal for the committee to consider this too. It is assumed that the amount of money needed to contribute to the contribution of the contractor's work will be about comparable to the amount estimated by this bill. In this regard, it is proper to assume that the evidence is behind these issues. reports that the gymnasium makes certain quality requirements for a team of employees' advice and offers itself an recognition system in connection with the Iceland's model and Olympic Union. Has the sports movement thus encouraged sports companies to be more careful with direct counseling, rather than making contracts with contractors. In this regard, the sports movement has also given high priority to the distribution of funds to younger groups and to the equality of the sexes. And there is reason to encourage this here, linked to this, and just in general with the support they are under attack on the athletes, to keep this in mind at these times because when pressured by them, it is important to keep all sports activities going and to encourage particular attention to younger groups and to equality purposes and to be careful when dealing with the challenges of the epidemic. A respectable president. Clearly, the modern - day crown virus has had a major impact on the activities of an athlete and has faced the budgets of the epidemic. I've been informed that sports companies have experienced an increased elimination from youth activities following the pandemic, and that's very unfortunate. Therefore, it is important that governments enter and secure as best possible the potential for all children and young ones to participate in organized sports activities once the epidemic is over and that the activities can be fully restored. How important it is that we as a community and as public funds recognize that it is extremely important to give general financial support to our athletes during these difficult times! But I don't think there's much to say about the importance of sports because it speaks the facts, of course. In view of this, I think it is very important that this bill will be agreed here at the General Parliament as soon as possible, but I believe that the bill will contribute to, in addition to other measures, that as little as possible, sports in Iceland will become a sports event for the pandemic in the long term. Then I just want to say that this bill is the nature of the case in cooperation with the more ministry and with the sports movement and the nature of matters that have developed and may be related to what will be important for the committee to examine specifically. I'm happy to cooperate with the committee because I think in general the eyes are better eyes than the eyes, and I look forward to that cooperation. Following the discussion here, I suggest that the case be referred to. General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u105	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I know the sports business is very close to him. This case is fine as far as it goes. But that may be the problem, a problem society has faced this year's lung. The situation is that they have been waiting for help since the early year, and they have had expectations, natural expectations, and they have no shortage of high - sounding sports ministers, which I believe are fully willing to do well. But the situation is that this is certainly not all that is needed, more is needed. It is now spoken of as being on September 30 of the following year, with assistance in the period between October 1, this year and June 30, the following year. The next fall, we need to look for some sports company to get down on their knees if nothing has to be done. They now live at cost, they have a income drop now. The first question is: Can companies, if this is legal, immediately in January apply for strength in the first few months and then again in the middle of the year for the loss of costs and then again, or must they apply for it all at once the next fall and live on the air until then? V.E.G. A minister reviewed why this does not reach a contractor. In part the request of the Ministry of finance is being tried to increase the number of athletes and to reduce the number of contractors. But contractors are a fact today, just as it is true that sports companies are fighting on the banks. I'm asking the highest. Again: Is now the right time to make such adjustments? Would it not be proper to deal with the present problem in the best possible way with this bill, which will hopefully become a law in the days ahead and then work on the rest? Third, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister I know is pleased with the success that has been achieved in the part-way improvement: I believe that sports companies should have been allowed to enjoy their choice as well. Now I don't know about a minister, but I'd like to get his opinion on it, and explain why the part-change doesn't reach a sports club. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very good question. First, I want to say about the application deadline, and maybe it's not clear enough in the bill, that the reason this applies to September 30 is that we're creating a warning to June 30, so that athletes can know that we're going to bridge the gap; if there's any more fluctuations in this, you just know that by this law it will be guaranteed. The conclusion of the procedure was that as soon as this bill had been approved, the first payment could be started back on October 1 so that it can be completed and at the time it is needed by a labour agency. My expectations are that it might happen in January or something. Then perhaps it could be won over a period of two months or something so that we would again be talking about March and then June or whatever it was. At any rate, it's been my understanding and the Ministry, and I know that the labour agency wants it to be done in this way, so there's something that would be good to sharpen in the process. For contractors, I'm sure you're right about that. A senator said that initially we were working on the bill being both remuneration and contractors and the possibility that contractors might be a little lower, maybe 90% or 80% or so. The result, however, is that the bill is employed in a good partnership with more advisers, that the Ministry of finance strongly stressed that the Labour Office was not paying for contractors, the Labour Office is working with paymen. It is true, the labour oce is generally working with the pay of the employees. That is why the landing had to take the same amount as the one placed in this bill in a special fund that could be drawn for execution. None of this is overcoming criticism, and it can be considered better at the progress of the problem, since it was originally indicated in another way. Nevertheless, we expect to bridge both, but with two measures, let's say. [[The president calls.]] And I didn't even get the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u107	Thank you very much. Minister, good answers. That's right, we'll go over this committee well, with and without the highest. Minister, where the case will be referred. I'd like to be assigned to the late-pass partial improvement process. The theme may then be: Ask for the highest power. Secretary of education. I'd like to have the highest. A minister to tell me when it is expected that the athletes will be allowed to apply and will further be paid from this fund, which is announced to the minister of sports affairs to set up at the same time. No matter how well this matter is, and hopefully it will improve in the interests of a health committee, the fact is that it is supposed to deal with future problems. For example, in today's developing world, we face ancient and modern problems. That is what we need to deal with now. Now I know the highest. Social Affairs Minister does not have that part, i.e. The past and the present. It's a treasure the Minister of Education is going to bring. But in view of the fact that these issues are being carried out, the highest will be the case. A minister to be able to answer when we see sports companies being assured of that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u108	A respectable president. When the partial improvement was extended, there was much debate as to how to set conditions for it. What was required was to adopt conditions comparable to those made in the resignations, making it a requirement for unlimited tax restrictions that would be avoided by the sports companies. They weren't thinking of excluding sports companies, but because of the same conditions on either side, they were automatically excluded by sports companies. Understanding them was not a conscious intention. Then I'd like to say we assume that if everything works out and we do this bill, we can take the first dose back to October 1. It is normal to invite you to apply, etc., call for data and so on. We also assume that the proposal for funding can be applied to 2nd. It's a budget for the sports companies. On January 1, the legal rights will be activated. The minister of education will then introduce, and he can safely do the same for the Committee, in what way they can be applied for both the contractors and the payments due to a fall in the summer that is comparable to the 500 million. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Hopefully, this can happen at a similar time, right at the beginning of a new year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u109	Mr. President. Of course, nothing has to do with the problems these athletes are in right now. They're fighting on the banks. Still, there are many factors involved in keeping seawater. Debates have been growing up, and this could have a lasting effect on their activities through damage to practicers, both successful athletes, as well as young children and adolescents. Because earlier, it must be kept in mind to review the problems between 10 and 11 months in advance. It's created a real problem. I agree with what. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson, that it is of utmost importance that you can apply immediately. Of course, it would be best to start the partial improvement process right away. Then, too, there is the problem and the scrap that has been raised. First of all, I'd like to get an explanation for why the Ministry of Economics feels that this additional route needs to be carried through the Ministry of Education, which will only complicate the situation and put the head of the athletes in such incredible uncertainty. Second, what guarantee do we have? The Minister of Education would bring in a case involving this fund and how much money are we talking about? We're just, you know, the highest. Minister, to see that if we don't take the decisive and quick action that covers problems right from March 1, we're creating a lot of damage to society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. We can share in the view that the field ministry is important. That's exactly why we brought a special bill and a special procedure to take special care of it. However, we should remember that since March 500 million have been put in place. K. in a income dropout level designed to bridge a specific period. Iceland's Olympian team was responsible for their distribution. A second dose of these revenues has been published since June 1 - because the previous strength reached June 1 - to October 1 that is to be bridged that way. V.E.G. A minister of education will explain that. After October 1, the landscape changed quite a bit because of the popular ban on sports. There was no practice and no competition. Before that time, most cases of competition and exercise were permitted. It's a direct disease prevention operation that's gonna stop it. That's why we're doing a little bit of a business, which in this bill is estimated to be 500 million. K. The nature of a matter says that we do not know exactly as much as we knew about the part-change process. The work of the bill was suggested that the contractors go through another can because of what I have mentioned here, that men have encouraged sports life to be more paid. People have talked about paying off in general only wages. That was why a special pot was put in, and another one of the same amount is planned for it. I now mean that a brain is taking rather drastic steps in this matter by taking special arms around the sports life because it has fallen between a ship and a dock. We're really doing it here. But is this overcoming criticism? No, there is no criticism in general, and the minister is willing to discuss anything, any change, if it benefits the local sports life. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u111	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister should not resent us if we ask a few questions. Of course, we are grateful that the matter is presented. That is a good resolve, but it is hoped later. It is only very important that the matter handles the real problem. Of course, it is true that circumstances changed on October 1. But let us not forget that before, and ever since March, there was a decrease in the number of employers, the number of viewers, and, above all, support from companies that are highly dependent on a collapse. There's gotta be some way to grab this thing. Let's just get together now and improve the bill in the treatment of the committee so that the options will be more rapid, if they are strong enough. Finally, I ask the highest. Minister if he's done all of this in full cooperation and content with the sports movement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u112	A respectable president. With this bill, we are ensuring the premonition for the sport movement as long as the closing power is. We're creating resources to bridge all the uncertainty ahead. We're saying, in the end, it becomes clear how much this will cost because we're going to intervene. It was brought into the bank by June 1st, as I mentioned, because there was mainly a losing of income. We're changing course now and we're going into business. That's what we're doing in this bill and with other actions. Then I'd like to say that I'm convinced that I'm going to get this bill to work, and it's gonna be very important for the sports movement. I know that me and what. A senator agrees on the importance of thereafter's sports movement that is both ready to care for younger classes in this country for children and young people and also to create a powerful achievement that is important to role models and the like. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I generally agree with what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u113	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this bill, and must state with what? Einarsson In Hanna of my lack of understanding at least, so I'll only talk about myself, of why the contractors are taken out because we who know something to know that the majority of athletes have some sort of contracts. This includes taking all the pay or more of the pay on athletes out of parentheses. Then we're talking about putting up a bill on payment for employees and janitors and something like that. All right, but the jamming level, it's being increased. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in two: On the one hand, about this strength, which will then be at the highest level. Education minister and why it is considered a good way because this is merely talking about payments that go through a labour oce, where there is a perfect transparency to some particular rules. But in the case of government funding, there is much less transparency. There will be some pot in which the sports companies pick up, and we have previously seen that sharing is not necessarily the total loss of income, but some other criteria are used, such as the number of children in the neighborhood or something else that really does not involve the loss of income. I wanted to get the highest opinion. A minister of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u114	A respectable president. As I said, we were originally working with the contractor being inside this bill. However, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it was decided to create a special fund that held particularly of the reasoning I mentioned earlier. Still, money is taken away and estimated to be the same amount. So one cannot argue that this part is being left behind because money is truly being taken into consideration. I also explained that we were working with the original. On the other hand, I'd also like to say that it's not quite true either. A senator claims that there are only janitors and things like that on salary because the numbers we have received from the sports movement themselves show that there is a difference in this. Here, in the capital area, for example. estimates that at least 40% is on the payroll while 60% has some kind of contractoring, but this is vice versa, 60/40. So it's calculated to be about 50/50 for contractors and pay according to numbers coming from the sports movement itself. Then I'd like to say about the income drop-offs that were granted in the summer, 500 million, and assumed to be another of October 1st, they went through the sports movement themselves that developed certain guidelines in it, and gave strength as Ministers afterwards confirmed. Likely, this will follow a similar pattern with regard to the rest of the procedure. But it is true that when we have a bill, it looks a little different, and in this bill, it is all very clear how the intervention takes place. It will be a labour agency that reviews the data and if candidates disagree with them, they can sue the decision-making committee for welfare reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u115	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. On page 18. 5 The bill speaks of an assessment of influence, and it shows, by permission of a president: It is designed to include a team of athletes that started to function on October 1, 2020, and it is made temporaryly drop activity between October 1, 2020, and June 30, 2021 due to official disinfectants in the sense of the bill. It is assumed that a team of athletes refers to a legal entity within Iceland's Italy and Olympic Union, including the United States of Iceland. individual departments that serve on behalf of the local law. So it is reasonable to assume that the bill covers 33 special relationships, 25 national/porting alliances and about 408 sports and teenage partners. V.E.G. Minister said there was 500 million in total. That's about it. Five hundred dollars. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: We've been through it before with a bill from the highest level. Minister who enters the council, completely underestimated financially. Could it be that this is true when 500 companies are to be divided into 500 million?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u116	A respectable president. What we're doing here, and I told them in my enforcing speech earlier, we're creating a set foundation and specific rights for the athletes they know they can pick up from June 30 to June 2. The cost is being assessed based on the assumption that the operation will be valid until December 31. That's what we're working with. Based on the information we receive from the sports movement itself, this should not be taken lightly. But we can't run out any absolute basis for all the sports companies in the country, how many are on the payroll, how much is that? It is simply a cost plan that is being worked out in cooperation with the sports movement itself. If the situation persists until a new year, then these amounts can be expected to change. I also pointed out that the Ministry of finance did not make a special comment on the expense issues involved. [[The president calls.]] It's like another: When it's done by an aesthesiologist, we just don't know how the case goes down until June 30, but we're making bail for the budget because the government's gonna take it on, not the budget itself. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u117	Mr. President. This is clearly a good thing. It will address the challenges facing sports companies, at least In front of the next year, they deal with the problems the sports companies have faced since they were ordered to close mostly in the late autumn door. It has been shown here in my answers to the highest. Minister-to-be plan is to arrange for the budget to be applied several times during the period, i.e. They are not expected to get tired until the next fall and then bring an application or obtain the current cost. It's very important. To tell you the truth, the next thing I'm sure there would be a lot of people who didn't cover that time, especially in view of the fact that they've been in trouble since we've been hit at the beginning of the year and since the outbreak of preventative measures. This has had many effects on the activities of an athlete. They have coped with the decline of income and activity, and they tried to do so without harming their work. Our last group was certainly looking at some of the ways in which they could be met. The government concluded that this was very difficult. It has to be said that they have lived with considerable bits of pieces. As a result, their activities have been damaged, and they are numerous. First of all, we're talking about the recruitment relationship between athletes and employees; general staff and trainers; whether they are trainers of athletes or younger athletes. We know the next many that great good, and at the end of our great success at the sports field, we Icelanders are not chance. He is here primarily because our sports movement has brought happiness to attract and keep amazing employees, allowing them to thrive, allowing them to use their influence on our young, and then training athletes. This concerted effort is not a simple case in which the criteria have been very high for recruiting. Sadly, it is simply very easy to lose the vampire there. That's why this case is positive. We've got a lean this year. Sadly, we are in a situation where this is no longer an unexpected problem. We're just used to it. That's why I miss the fact that we're not taking care of the whole thing. I have reason to worry about how and when the things that aren't being introduced here will be solved, which is not on the shoulders. Social Affairs Minister and not solved in this bill, i.e. how we face a drop in sports society from the beginning of the year. We're talking all kinds of revenues. Over a period of time, the number of practicers declined. That's what they call a strike. Advertising took place because the field ministry was not like sight during the summer. It's a strike. During the summer of the year, many athletes take advantage of extraordinary events and large conventions to dry during the winter. These conventions were not in the summer of 2020. It's a strike. And you could go on like this for a long time. I'm concerned that this is a step that is taking just a certain distance and that we don't see when and how past problems - if you can talk about past problems when you're talking about the current year - and the problems the athletes are about to face right now are going to be solved through this fund that is to start, which is to decide how much money goes into, who's going to decide how to get out, who's going to decide when to get the money, who's going to decide what conditions are set, etc. I don't understand why it's not now. A good long, comfortable list is the government's list of present - day issues. It would have, for example. This would be a case of great opportunity because we need to see the bigger picture. But so I'm looking at this particular case, I'm glad to hear that attitude. A minister - and it's all equal, and it should be commended - that he will be careful that the NTSB, in this case the welfare committee, which is being discussed, offers suggestions for a conversation with the highest level of conversation. A minister or other partner and correct the matter as necessary. It is true that cases are sometimes won quickly. The question may be, Is there any reason why the committees examine this matter? Now we're talking about this case being with a health committee if corpses do. Now I don't know any more than anyone else, I imagine, how much. Minister of sports is going to put his side to work. Is that a matter of Congress? Does it go to another committee? This is simply an unnecessary complication. We know this, and experience in the past few months has shown that the misunderstanding does not help in the situation. It is not nuclear physics to help our country's athletes, which we all agree to have an enormously important role in Icelandic society in this situation. And although the cost is not small, it is not large in the big Covid context. I remind you, which should almost be unnecessary, the number of studies that show us black in white how important sports is for young people, for youths, and for adults, how important it is to our spirituality and physical health, how important it is to practice sports, and how important it is to observe sports. It should be high priority to make sure our sports companies don't come out of the Covid flag. I look forward to the work ahead of me. The welfare committee. I want to finish my point: Let's remember that there are 70% of children between 6 and 18 years of age who are involved in organized sports. There are 70% of the children we're talking about here. There are practicers we're helping with this through the sports companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u118	Mr. President. It is welcome to discuss the support or payment of a gymnasium for the pay cost of a crown virus epidemic, as many athletes are feeling pretty clean after a month - long crowning epidemic, and it is quite clear that this will have a permanent impact on Iceland's sports activities, and not just Iceland, but around the world. We've talked here about paying for contractors, which are about that. Half the athletes, and why the highest. The minister of finance demanded that they do so to the highest degree. Social Affairs Minister to pull the contractor out of this bill. I thought there was some reason. Social Affairs Ministers for the lack of camaraderie and at the highest level. The secretary of finance is not there. We cannot ask him what would cause this. But it's perfectly obvious that this will cause problems in the system, increase the ambiguous level, reduce transparency and awareness in all of this, because it's staff that's next to each other. We cannot make sure that the same rules apply to a worker and a contractor that one group does, apparently, via a labour oce. The other group goes through an office in education and sports, etc. The second bill will be out of business. The welfare committee, the other case, if it comes here, if this cannot be taken from the minister's drawer money, it will be settled at once. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. So harmony is at risk, and the complex level is increased. I'm not just going to be a publisher of terrible things, but I don't think it's necessary. I don't think it's necessary, Mr. President, to be increasing the misunderstanding. Sports are fighting on the banks today. For the sake of sports associates and legal support, there has also been a collapse. There is, of course, no play tickets, etc. The importance of sports in Iceland as regards child prevention, for the public health of children, for young people, and for everyone who is mentally ill, has been discussed. Let us not underestimate the power expressed by both practicers and loyal supporters. The output that we get there when we're encouraging our people to keep going. It is also necessary for the national soul. So let's not overlook the fact that we're looking at a situation that's potentially 5 to20% of all the professional activities of a particular group. These are several months in our lives, and in many other professions this can be viewed as several months of life, which, yes, will have some effect. But in the case of professionals in sports, athlete's achievement, a period of over a year may be a big part of professionalism, that we do not talk about young people, and that we abandon, and all that. So it is of great importance that the athletes can continue their jobs here when society begins again, but they can continue to recruit staff who can be trained and can attend sports and sports. I'm a little worried about the misunderstanding they're offering. Let us not forget that Iceland's sports companies are not profitless. They are driven by a large number of volunteers at all ages. It's a social setting, public health industry, and I don't know any sports club in Iceland that's making out a nickel. It's all in the ministry, so it's an investment. For the Icelandic State, it is an investment to help the athletes not get out of the field one by one, so to speak. There are various dates in this which I find worthwhile to draw attention to, e.g. The duration of the study. This refers to the period between October 1, 2020, and June 30, 2021. As I did in the antiquated situation today, the legislation is assumed to be a temporary payment for the pay of an athlete's team that started to operate on October 1, 2020, and is temporarily suspended in the period between October 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021 due to official disease prevention measures in the sense of the bill. It's a long time, very long time. But the bill is to include nearly 500 athletes and young people, special relationships, regional relationships and sports alliances. That is why I wondered about the amount of money specified when it comes to nearly 500 agencies that are meant to apply, when you watch assessments of the impact of the bill. It's said to be 500 million. K. Due to the period since October 1st, 2020,30. June 2021. It's an eight-month period. At the end of June 2021 and the end of June 2021, sports activities are expected to be less severe, and have been present in the last months and last weeks, while it is assumed that there will be some limits in the sports work in December 2020, as is the case. That's the situation now, but there are still no exercises allowed in Iceland by those over 15 years of age. Of course, we don't know what happens on December 9, but I think I know at least if you don't start selling tickets to games at the time, but it's clear that all of these games have already been blown off to at least years and possibly longer, since it is quite dangerous for people to plan to compete too early in sports when they have not been trained for weeks and even months. That the sum of the bill, the estimate of the cost of this support, the total necessary support, the volume of 500 million, I consider a lot of underestimate. I wondered if it would be good for us to bring such a number into the council, which is possibly not in any relationship with reality, since no activity has been allowed to be with the athletes for two months. Well, there's earners underneath there, but they're not contractors. But there is nothing else that comes in, not strength, except on very small amounts and not on ticket sales, as previously said, or on annual card sales. I'm afraid this money is underestimated, but maybe it's put in there to the highest. Secretary of finance is letting this case out of the government. I can't quite figure it out. Again I say, it's about national importance, it's socially important, it's important to the public health and prevention of a small nation on an island that we support our sports companies in the country. We are to do so as follows, so that it will remember, because the athletes will not send this money into a tax channel in distant islands or in a deep pocket of some of their owners. That's for damn sure. We will always profit when we look forward to supporting handsomely in Iceland's sports companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to have a little conversation with you. A senator who is chairman of the welfare committee, where I sit as an officer in the hearing, this committee will be treated for this matter. I wonder what. A senator imagines that in the progress of the situation, the committees have time to consider the point that we both have, me and the other. A senator, specifically mention the distinction between the assistance of the employees and the contractors on the other hand. V.E.G. A minister came into it earlier, explaining the situation that it was originally meant to be in the bill, but it changed. This is linked to a campaign that we know has been going on for some time, i.e. moving workers from contractors to employees from employees to employees. We can then have strong opinions about how well it works. It doesn't always have to be the right way. There's no shame in contractors. At times, there are good reasons why work is being done. What I'm worried about, let's do this thing my way, is that it's not yet known how the contractors will be handled. We also know that there are different sports companies. Some are far from changing things and have few contractors, others with most employees, and that can lead to many reasons. The only thing these athletes have in common is to have a very serious financial problem. This can simply have a negative impact on their equality and thus on the level of athletes. [[The president calls.]] Is this something a natural? The head of the welfare committee feels that it is normal for us to examine further.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u120	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I believe there will be good reason for this work. The welfare committee. We need to ask questions and get answers from the top. Secretary of finance on why he goes on to demand that contractors be taken out of this bill. If so, which I now expect, at the highest level. Social Affairs and Children's Ministers, the aim of pushing the athletes into bringing contractors into the employee's salary should be made clear in the bill that if the athletes are ready to transfer the current contractor's contract, this will also apply to them again in time, i.e. when they were contractors, from October 1st. You can't cut it off like that. If it is the motivation to get everyone to negotiate that the person will be paid, this is the way it should be done. Contract agreements with athletes are generally temporary, and this is likely because they agree to other regulations regarding exposés and the like. It's in a particular frame. But if it's only about the highest. I'm not sure that this is the right time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u121	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I look forward to this job. For Icelandic society, it may show the importance of the whole sports movement that there are three of the highest. Ministers under, secretary of finance, Minister of Social Affairs and Sports Ministers, or Education Ministers. It's just that way. I'd like to use this opportunity to reflect on one thing that I've been worried about in association with all my discussions about the negative effects of the crown virus epidemic on sports communities, or rather on sports children. It has been observed that despite the late and finally intervention of the children's leaders, i.e. Those who have lost their jobs and income in this epidemic, paying for their children's sports industry, that is a ridiculous little bit of it. This has been shown in conversations with social authorities, for example. It is a process of diffusion. It may be difficult to reach children and a lot of activities that tend to reduce their extravasation. I wondered, " Should my team of sports not be more involved in reaching out to the children? ' They must be the ones who have a general view of who has been missing, and it matters about their activities. It's not necessarily part of the particular assignment we're discussing here, but we need to focus on the big movie, as we've been told. I wondered if it would be interesting to take this into consideration when a health committee receives a challenging and interesting assignment to discuss this matter a little in its entirety.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. Yes, I think there is good reason to hide the sports, sports companies, the task of picking up these missing children, but also the lost ones who have stopped attending rehearsals. I ask myself, " Is there no reason to expand this strength before 18 years of age so that it will not only reach children but also help youths if they pay some kind of share fee for its practice? ' But there are so many things that I want to talk about now - including the group of 15 to520 years of age - that I am deeply concerned about my sports and high school activities. I worry about kids who are becoming totally isolated because they don't go to school or at sports. It's so interesting that when we discuss this at the council, whether in the matter of high school or sports, we get e - mails and messages from concerned parents, whether it is parents of advanced children, seniors, or socially isolated children and young people. The pressures and challenges we face here seem impartial. Some seem to be doing just fine, putting up with it, but there's a lot of problems with whether it's a socially isolated child, a successful sport child, a highly productive student, or a highly socially active child. I think we need to look at all of this together and try as much as we can to promote sports, not just a direct sports job, but to increase the budget to hold children and teenagers around the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u123	A respectable president. Of course, it would be possible to give lengthy talks about the importance of physical activity and its importance for prevention and public health in general. But I'm not gonna do it because it's just a fact and it doesn't have to spend too many words in it. However, I'm going to say that values for the third sector, whether in the form of a sports club or other members of the community that are doing good to the public, are enormously high. That's why it was very good. The secretary of finance last night spoke for the bill on the tax-based motivation for lawyers who work for the greater good. We talked about it here only last night, and I think it's important that we take care of the first thing and we just want to use this opportunity to promote community responsibility. Although the situation is the way it is in society today, there are many companies that do not focus on income contractions, and I plan to encourage them to continue to support their athletes. This is certainly important today, for we see how much income we earn by means of these fine sports companies. Of course, it is heartbreaking to see the report here and hear that the sports companies have begun to feel an elimination. There has already been a marked elimination of children and adolescents following the use of Covid, which is, of course, a very serious matter. We must find ways where possible first so that young ones can safely pursue their sport, for this is so important to the future. So I'm going to celebrate this bill, be glad that it's taken place, and we're going to support handsome sports movement. It's important, and it's good. However, I will consider whether it would be possible for me to simplify our approach to that important and positive goal. This is where the part-change process has been named. Of course, such early sports companies were able to apply for the partial improvement process, making many practical applications. I am simply thinking deeply about the changes we made in the way things changed in our time. Forced that society, such as sports companies, could no longer be involved. We've developed forms around the income drop-offs in companies and sports companies, although they're not part of a standard enterprise, both demonstrate a significant loss of income and have not had the need for a full-time pay raise by their employees. I'm just going into the discussion to ask ourselves, " What is the most practical and effective way to get the funds to go back into the sports movement because of the situation in which we live? ' Of course, at the same time, we need to remember that the sport is working on an enormously important job for us as a community. If there were not enough payment, such as the one mentioned here, there are 400 million in this phase, it would always cost society more later, in some other form. The contractors have also been installed here, and I understand that there have been some complications as to whether this might be taken over by a employment agency. That's why, if I understood correctly, it's gonna be the best. Sports ministers have special resources in this regard. I'm going to point it out to you. The well - being committee involved in this matter is that it is important to get this money out of the first to the sports movement, but we also need to consider what course we have already made to support those who are dealing with very similar problems and sports movements, even though they do not have unlimited tax restrictions in this country. There were many in this hall who were so anxiously worried that the part-time relief route would somehow be abused and here would definitely be some company in the tax industry or something to use that way. When it comes to this, this is a way that is primarily useful to the staff. Instead of being dumped and having to go to unemployment, employment relations were held. That way, of course, would have been useful to sports companies at the time too. I want to get into the discussion that while we're sharing some substantial money - and I'm on it and I really stand by because there's a need to get money to the sports club, the important work - we also need to consider the channel we put into. In this regard, I'd like to name the locals, too. Of course, rural communities have given tremendous strength to the sport movement, or perhaps we should say, rather, that they bought from that service. It's just that my rural society is getting an enormous amount of service, such as the government, from the sports movement. We made a very good suggestion to share money with children who would come from poor families or who would have trouble paying their expenses, excessive beauty, and good idea. But again, we had to install a special system for it. Just so I come back because here I've heard folks in the countryside say, "Hey, just bring this money to us - because our rural communities have certainly also suffered a loss of income - and we find practical and safe ways to return it. Now, I'm not saying that this is exactly the case here, but remember, the communities are, of course, one of the main sponsors of sports society and that there is reason to look beyond the future. Other than that, I wish. The welfare committee benefits us with dealing with the bill and reminds us that we look at this channel that we are using and how fast and practical it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u124	Mr. President. I'm just going to enter this discussion about the payment of an athlete's club for the pay expenses of an epidemic of crown virus. I don't think that anyone will get involved in the importance of all youth and leisure activity in the country, how important it is to promote human health and to participate in the training of future generations, physical, mental, and even social. Hadin' said that, maybe nobody needs to be surprised that I think this bill is time. No doubt it will do its part in the sport movement, helping her get the same resistance that we are to form on a bill for standing up. There are a few factors. A welfare committee may need no doubt to examine the progress of the matter. This is how it is, and it has actually been shown during the discussion, that, of course, sports companies differ. They have a wide range of support on the part of their community members. Some athletes simply cooperate with their local communities, where their communities pay a certain number of employees for them but receive instead, like a sharp one. paritaprevir Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir came in earlier, a special service from these same sports clubs. It's usually a very good partnership, but somehow it needs to be clear that there's no extra money being applied for these employees, since they may be paying their salary. It has only been established in the discussion that the workers working for the sports club, often during training, should in some way be included in this bill. I don't think it's in itself necessary. The contractors, as long as they're taxable in Iceland, should in fact, at least, as if I understand the VAT bill, to fit into that frame and to be able to get support there if they've missed money because of the epidemic. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have any more of those words. I look forward to working with this case at the moment. For those in need of this support, a welfare committee and hope that the matter will be there quickly and well - paying.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u125	A respectable president. I wanted to say a few words about the bill available regarding the payment of a sports club in Covid's time. Of course, it is good to have at last taken steps to support the vital work being done in the sports companies. In itself, it is remarkable, as the bill's report says, with the permission of a president: The crisis has shown that the economic measures taken by the government to cope with the pandemic's effects have not been sufficiently useful to athletes. This is so clear that there is even a reason to mention it specifically in the bill's report. Of course, the fact that it took ten, eleven months since the virus began acting out is interesting as it may be to some extent reprehensible. Sports have been an amazing blow and a combination of factors. Businesses of ticket sales for viewers have collapsed, especially for the group sports members; handball, basketball, and soccer, but, of course, for others too. It's harder to deal with sponsorship agreements, just because of corporate general maintenance procedures. The cost of sports companies is slow when such a situation breaks down, there are effective contracts, and other things to be respected. Then, of course, it is a question of whether this is not part of the task, at last, of supporting the sports and sports society, but of building an overabundant system for its success. Some of the key texts suggest that there are some of the barriers that have been criticized recently as far as other government actions have been concerned that the objective of the procedure has not been met. It's, for example. The point behind the fact that this is merely a means to strengthen the employees of sports clubs, not those who operate as contractors of them. It is known in the field of sports society that much work contracts are being used. It is caused by a combination of Because very many jobs do not have full-time jobs, job jobs or contracts are associated with periods, e.g. the period of indoor handball or basketball, or the time of soccer, if that is the case. So it is a custom to accept contracts. I'd like to warn you that the way this is happening in this bill is so important, I'm going to let myself say, the underlying goal of pushing this sector into an arrangement that all employees will be hired. I'm gonna let myself put it that way, i.e. that the Covid possibility is new to push this into the process. I don't like it very much. It would have been minimal, then, that at an earlier stage, the race would have been pushed in this direction, so that the movement would have known what to its peace, so to speak, about communication with the government. I believe that during the progress of the case, the Commission should make a special consideration of turning aside from conditions involved only in paying but not in contractors. Two. to which the law's objective is said, by permission of the President: ▪ The aim of these laws is to promote the ability of athletes to resume their function after they have been reduced to activity within a given period of time. Unchanged - I guess you can stretch it a little. Yet, that is the case, for example, that is not the case. Clearly, it is expected that the end of the epidemic will be the same as before. There is no indication that this bill alone, which allows the cost of 500 million, will give the athletes a place where proper resistance can be achieved after all the revenues that have taken place, and another secondary cost of this level of crown life. So I'll come in on the 5th floor. That's where we're dealing with our payment, according to the President's permission: It is advisable to pay the pay of an athlete's company, apart from job-related benefits and benets, such as car allowances, day money, or rent, as these laws more closely stipulate. This is what the Bible says about Adam and Eve. g., on President's permission: So far, we have had considerable problems with regard to other government actions. Because I know the highest. A minister next in a talk after me would be interesting to hear him - I'm afraid I missed the testimony given by the minister I give myself to be a turning point, such as the Supreme Court. A minister here brings up from the side hall and we expect - only go through the meaning of the problem about the conclusion of a sports club. [[Flmrh.: It was a turning point.]] If we look e.g. to a company in the restaurant sector, we'll see that there's a bit difference but not money whether a restaurant that has a seat for 200 people can take ten clients at this time. For many, it would no doubt be better to get a message of a complete lock - up and to enjoy the closed - ups they call. What is meant by the fact that a sports club has been put to death? Is it shutting down the rehearsals? Is it not to let employees on their bases? Today most people are meeting at Zoom, and so forth. At the same time, we spoke earlier during our discussion today, at least at the highest point. A health minister, of course, that it is unacceptable that even successful athletes and competitors are not allowed to practice under strict rules unknown to us in the countries we compare with. It'd be interesting if it was the highest. A minister would like to go over this for a moment. This is an interpretation that could be made clear and mild - tempered in the Committee. It would be interesting to know the highest definition and definition. The minister's on it. There are, of course, large jars that go out on how a government fund reaches back if some mistake occurs and overdos occur. That's what I'm probing for. The welfare committee is divorcing the factors so that overpaying, if due to this, would not cause later recuperation in the society of those who enjoy it. I just want to come back to this point, what do you mean by shutting down the operation? Is that a closing level? Is this some kind of part-improvement transfer for the sports companies? Or just what is it? I just want to review the sentence I mentioned at the beginning of a paper with a bill at the top. Minister. It says, by permission of the president: The crisis has shown that the economic measures taken by the government to cope with the pandemic's effects have not been sufficiently useful to athletes. There is evidence that the measures taken so far have not been working for these groups. Then I'd like to ask at the same time - because I'm at the top. A minister keeps writing down the questions I raised here, and he intends to answer them as if it were an unprepared request: - Why is this emphasis placed on pushing the athletes in the direction that this applies exclusively to employees instead of contractors? It may be at the top. Minister has entered this in his entropy speech, quite definitely, but I would like to ask him to come back on it if his time permits. Finally, I want to say that the sport is an important part of our entertainment, which may not be directly involved in the day - to - day activities, but of enjoying the role of sports players, whether it is for sport, basketball, handball, and football, or to form our magnificent free athletes who last night, in an interview at Station 2, directly called for getting in for practice. For example, at Saturday's Free Sports, there is no problem with 2 m rule. There is a question that if you are in such a situation, a 100 - one rule could be made between practicemates. Thus, far too much effort is being taken against athletes. We have to step back. I had an excellent conversation with the highest. Prior to today, the Minister of Health. Of course, the situation is that. A health minister may immediately give a line to adapt this status of athlete's achievements. Supreme Court position. Ministers simply force the position of a diseaser on these topics. There is no evidence that there is a change now that has not been over a long period of time in terms of the ability of successful athletes to pursue their own sport. Other than that, I wish. I would like to criticize that the government took ten months to realize that other solutions have not worked properly for the sport movement. I'd like to leave these two questions for the highest level. A minister who turns on why the movement is being pushed in a certain way to use the form of paymen, not contractors. As I say, I wish. The welfare committee would benefit from the implementation of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u126	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussions that have developed on this subject and for the positiveness of the country's sports work and for the discussions about how to handle it better, but not strange because there are over 100,000 active athletes in one way or another who are practicing sports. In this sector, workers work at 14,000 standards and 55,000 volunteers perform the movement. This is a positive one, so it is important that we come in here with a bill that embraces one of the most difficult times, but no sports has been practiced, or very small, since the beginning of the month of October. I'd like to start by saying before I come to a specific point, that the government has responded. We're here with 500 million. K. in a special dropout strength as a dog. A senator who now sits on the President's chair, Willum Þór Þórsson, chairman of the legal committee, arranged and recommended in one of the many financial contributions. Because funding was given by the sports movement itself, there was a proposal for distribution regulations, and a minister then confirmed them. It is important that this bill is examined in the light that there is one piece in the picture we now bring to the sport. The Minister of Education will request an approved warrant to raise the funds that will be distributed through this income crisis grant, and it will be expected to be paid through budgets, and hopefully it will be approved. We would be thinking about that, since the rest of the strength was thought of on June 1. Then we would be thinking about the period between June 1 and October 1 in continued income - loss levels. When it comes to the time after October 1, where there has been much less sports in the country than it was in summer - because it is quite true that the sport was practiced in summer, but the audience was banned and reduced income and could not be held at meetings, etc. - was the result of a conversation with the athlete's movement that it would be wise to bring business support and to put their partners in charge of pay and payment. That is why it was done in this way. In my first speech, I reviewed why the contractors aren't in the bill now, what the evidence was for, and where those changes came from. On the other hand, it is the council to examine the results and the landings, whether it is wise to make adjustments in matters of life. On the other hand, we reserve funding that will also be requested at the council, meeting with contractors, which are about to happen. The same amount of money that this bill is expected to cost. It is then the council to take its final stand. The Ministry of Economics considered it more reasonable to believe that the contractors were saved into some kind of system of products, such as the income dropouts in the summer. Because people wonder about the transparency of such intervention, I assume that it will be one of those things that the Minister of Education will list when the council decides to authorize her to post money for that assignment. It will likely be based on some comparable foundation, and this summer it will be combined with the sports movement. I agree with the discussion we've been discussing that we need to consider how we can deal with the danger of reducing the number of practice when we get back on track. By the action we have undertaken and the actions that the Minister of Education will take in parallel with this bill, as well as the 600 million, and the prospective 300 million next year intended to support the low income of homes especially beyond other leisure resources so that children can participate in sports and leisure activities - less than a billion will go on then - we should be able to handle very handsomely over sports life because, overall, except for these operations over 3 billion years. The result is that sports life is going into the next year with a measure of force. If it doesn't, we have a bill that, if it's approved by the council, we'll be able to hold on to our sports life until June 30, next year. Then it may change, just as when we started with the first suggestion of a partial improvement. Then it was extended and changed, and that's just the nature of the actions we're doing at the times we're doing in an Icelandic community today. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir entered the third sector, cheering up the prime minister's regard for matters that were largely based on the proposals of a professional group. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson is in charge. I think it's a really good bill. There we take important steps, and, of course, sports life is part of it. People have wondered, including why. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, other alternatives that have not used the planned sports movement. That is why we now have a special tool to catch the sports movement. This is because this is an enormous work. This is of utmost importance to our children and to our community and has somehow fallen between a ship and a dock. That is why we bring in these specific procedures. By bringing a bill that lasts until June 30, next, we will create forethought, hopefully until we have many vaccinations that all defenses can be totally relaxed. That's the choice. Then we'll have a discussion here at the Hall of Congress. Then we wonder what changes can be made, which is very positive, and the discussion has been very good. But after all, the sports movement knows that if this persists, the security network will take it because it is, as has rightly been installed here, the difference between the activities of volunteer sports, the actions for those in the room, or the actions for everyone else in the community, and the actions for companies who are private property. I think I've answered what's been said about the contractor's execution. It is only natural for the council to ask questions and ask questions. I have considered here what evidence was behind it, and I have pledged cooperation to the Commission in this regard. Since then, it has been wondered what foundation the bill is built here. In fact, it is based on the stress layer because what activates the payment obligations in the bill, as shown in Deuteronomy. c., you are in some way about to have disease prevention procedures, which prevent you from stopping your sports life. They're a free group, they're a volunteer organization, they're not companies on the market. It may also be that, on the basis of a hospice operation, the Iceland's Sports Association, or the Sports movement itself, has been initiated, that based on the cross-cutting measures, individual relationships, the football, the basketball, the handball, the volleyball, we can continue to count, have intervened on the basis of conjugation measures, and that enables them to pay off the family bill, so we are certainly expanding it. I completely disagree with those who are concerned about this at the council Hall that this will be the motivation for sports companies to shut down because it's not the spirit of sports. Iceland's Sports, the sports movement, sports volunteers, special relationships, Iceland's Athletestic and Olympic Union in Iceland and Iceland are not playing around playing out sports or giving up any training or competition. All are forced to do so, and they want to get back in a race. Everyone wants to be able to do this again. I think the discussion has been extremely good here. There's a good point here that the committee needs to consider, and I'm sure it will, and I'm happy to cooperate with it. But remember, it is extremely important that the sports movement, the youth service, and all that we hear under these volunteers that are taking our children out of the Covid-19 epidemic, come as the strongest out of the Covid-19 epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u127	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Social Minister for the speech. It was one of the most important things. A minister came to the point where a line had been placed by the secretary of finance in terms of handling the gymnasiums in another matter, in another bill. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to confirm my understanding of his speech, if he brings them into the matter, and if he envisions that in this case the contractors of sports and sports companies will be hung in the same way as pay paid is being paid in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u128	A respectable president. No, I can't be understood as being the highest. Iceland's secretary of finance, who somehow was divulging contractors. As a matter of fact, I thought it was a dishonest way to find him in the discussion. The minister of finance has been very understanding of these actions and has supported them. Otherwise, it would not have come in here, as if it had not been supported by any other group. On the other hand, we worked this bill in cooperation with counseling, and it was pointed to the view in the Ministry of finance that sports companies have been encouraged to pay more pay and less contractors. It has been a partnership for some years to encourage us to move to it. The gymnasium itself has an arrangement called the ISI Model Association and is also encouraged to be paid out of pay rather than a contractor's pay. On this basis and also on the basis that the Labour Office is charged with paying, working with employees, not by contractors, was determined to make changes, to put the bill forward in this way that the funds intended for the contractors could be taken into a special fund that would be paid off on the part of a minister of education. This is where we put our money. I assume that when they ask for money from the council to give them money to the Ministry of Education that provides them from there for the sports movement, they will be identified as the conditions for which money is required. I also pointed out that there has been a debate about the wisdom of changing the bill in this regard. I told the members of the committee who were asking me that I would help the committee to see what changes the council wants to make in the matter. That is true of all matters that come into the council, and I have worked very hard at working with the council to make changes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I've made a lot of changes, and that's just a good thing because it's part of the legal process here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u129	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I've misunderstood the Minister's speech. I felt that he was watching to post the sports companies'expenses from contractors on a different bill. Now it's come to the highest level. A minister inside saw to it that there would be a fund as a minister of education then had a preemptive way of assigning it. This may be a question because there is now a budget and a financial plan for whether this money is in place somewhere, because I know it's the highest. A minister is keenly interested in the progress and status of the sports and sports partners. Does he know that money is placed somewhere in financial or financial programs, so that it can be the highest? A minister of education can quickly take steps to support the athletes in such a way that they are equally careful about what is being done in the remuneration? This is my second answer, so I'd like to mention it, because it's the highest. A minister admitted that men had been making a scene here in the debate with the minister of finance, that I did not. Someone I missed a talk with may have done so, but it did not come from me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u130	A respectable president. We've been working on these suggestions in cooperation with the sports movement for the past month. The nature of a case said a financial bill appeared before that time. In the case of a financial bill, we assumed that our country's sports life could be a natural way here on autumn days. It hasn't been that since October 1. That's why we have this bill. The nature of the case, after the first. budget, this bill is not contained in a budget bill as it was submitted, no more than it does to contractors or income drop-offs that should be before October 1, as the highest. A minister of education will likely pay in a comparable way to what was done in the summer of over 500 million. K. who were approved at the council. The nature of this bill is based on the procedures carried out by the Ministry of Education, by which the council will accept funding to do so. But I believe that the foundation of this law and the basis of a higher education minister will be placed before the council, and hopefully we'll both, me and the other. A senator, accept the action, the capital, so that together we can grab our sports life and create the support they need in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u131	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a travel law, No. 54/2020. The bill suggests a change in the law that the duration of travel from time to time will be extended by five months. This change is further supported by international tourism companies, provided that further scope is available for travel and modeling in the coming months. In the current travel laws, the government is given permission to publish travel to individuals with Icelandic birth counts in 2002 or earlier to be used in enterprises defined in 2 mg. 1st par. The law. The requirements of the law can be attributed to the negative effects of the Korean virus epidemic on the transport services of the local region, but due to the widespread limit of travel in most European and North America and elsewhere, the epidemic has been particularly damaging to tourism companies in this country. Travel is a government - sided operation, and it is intended for travel resources up to 1.5 billion. ... ina budgetfor 2020. The bill suggests a change in the duration of travel by five months or by 31 May 2021 instead of December 31. By local law. The extension of this period is merely a ruined gift. Thus, the extension can be extended within the funds laid up to be granted. As a result, there is no need for extra money. From the arrest of the law in June 2020 to November 20, 2020, some 175,000 of the population attended the return of some 280,000 who have been given the law, some 875 million. K. Of these, some 125,000 have already taken advantage of a gift of some 625 billion. K. But more than 50,000 trips have been brought, not new to this point, or 250 million. K. Overall, 826 companies have participated in the project. When you look at regional exchanges of capital, you can see that 195 billion. K. has been used for tourism companies in the capital area. Then we have about 103 million. K. Be new to companies in the South, 72 million in the North East, 45 million in the West, 32 million in the Southnes, 26 million in the East, 14 million in the north, and 13 million in the West. The amount of money is fairly equal to the main categories of tourism companies. For example, a total of some 197 million restaurants, some 180 million accommodations, and some 160 million have run out of tourism for recreation. Others have received lower sums of money, such as rentals and travel agencies. A respectable president. Travel laws encourage people to travel within the country. As noted earlier, some 50,000 or 250 billion have been affected by the production of the transport supplies. K. of estimate 1.5 billion. This is no doubt due to the insistence that, in the time of travel, government control measures have been intensified, including the end of the period of travel. with the meeting limit as well as the end of part of the enterprise that can receive the travel. At that time, governments have encouraged people to avoid unnecessary travel and to avoid going between parts of the land. Of course, because of this, the opportunity to use travelers has been fewer than originally expected, resulting in the failure of estimated funds. If the bill is legal and the duration of the extension, funded to provide transport companies in the region can be used already to further repair the winter period and up to the spring of 2021. The bill does not call for changes in other laws and has been employed in good consultation with the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs. However, the bill includes extension of a government support system already approved by the EFTA Institute of Observation, i.e. To and by 31st December 2020, as per current travel laws. The extension of the time period is also mandatory and subject to the Agency's approval but informal consultation was made with the Agency in the processing of the bill and an announcement sent to the Agency on November 25 of its issue. The Agency's approval is outlined in the matter of legitimate government support. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u132	A respectable president. I come up here to express my pleasure in being extending the period that the common people have to take advantage of the so - called travel. I've been very fond of that idea from the beginning, she thinks it's clever, a bit pretty, and a pretty way to deal with the conditions here in the economy and so don't have to put up with it anymore, we all know what the situation is. I would have this occasion, now that it is clear that this period is being extended, where economic difficulties have prolonged, could imagine that, at the same time, the period could have extended the amount. Since this bill became a law, we have seen better what the consequences are for individuals, for unemployment figures, and for similar factors, and for business and professional life. V.E.G. One minister rightly mentioned that part of the explanation is that there are still some intruding provisions - and I agree with the highest degree of travel. A minister for these reasons - means that in the concomitant use of disease prevention measures, there are fewer opportunities to take advantage of the gift, the tools to travel through the country, etc. But my view is that while extending the period, it would have been a good blow to raise the amount. A more significant way of supporting families could have been that their ages had been different. I would have liked to see that we were moving down the age limit to the current legislation and that we were bringing family, parents with children, more trips to take advantage of ourselves. But on the ground, and basically, I'm happy with this Minister's legislation. As I said at the outset, this was a way to deal with difficult situations, this way of having encouraging actions, both clever and beautiful. I think it's a beautiful idea, but I would have liked to see the highest. Ministers take larger steps on this occasion, raise the amount, leave e.g. up to a total of 10◯15 you. K. and may now especially look to that for the winter, and for Christmas, that there might be a gift for families. We can see more and more that the tourism service has indeed suffered a devastating blow, but it could have been viewed as having been put to the test by other branches. This legislation has extended beyond the use of tourism alone. However, I could have imagined that cultural and art had the power to provide greater support by improving the value of the gift.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u133	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. No. 366. It is a bill to correct the change in agricultural products, No. 99/1993, and for the distribution of tollovate. The bill is written at the Department of Professional Road and Development. Its main objective is to minimise the impact of the Korean virus epidemic on domestic agricultural production. In view of the difficult market situation of a pandemic crown virus, it is necessary to strengthen the support of domestic food production by setting up an earlier set of tollovate exports. The change in law that went into effect this year on January 1 resulted in a so - called equilibrium present as a result of the distribution of tollovata. This includes paying the lowest approved price in customs instead of paying the amount of money they offered. Based on the proposals of the work group for review of the regulations for the implementation of the tollovate agricultural products, the stated arrangement was submitted. The main focus of change was to reduce the expense of those assigned to the tollcans. This adjustment was submitted in view of the conditions that were then established by the Treaty between Iceland and the European Union on agricultural trade, signed on September 17, 2015, and established on May 1, 2018. With this contract, tollovians were greatly increased by agricultural products. In this country, there are about two million tourists every year. However, the situation is substantially changed, including due to a pandemic crown virus. The effects may vary, but according to tourism websites, the number of foreign visitors has decreased dramatically from year to year. Compared to the year 2019, the number of foreign visitors in March, 99% in April and May, was 53%, and is down to 95% in September. In view of the above, it is clear that food demand has been closely combined, but tollovum import has remained unchanged at the same time. It is the domestic food product that takes it down, and it needs to be controlled. It is expected that agrienvironment schemes, including agrienvironmental products, will decrease in the demand for agrienvironmental products. due to the decrease in foreign visitors, much of the results of domestic production will be affected by the falling in the production of such products. In fact, that effect has already been observed. It is necessary to limit the effects of the Korean virus epidemic and to reduce the damage already experienced by the national producers. The bill suggests changes to match the above mentioned. A new provision is instituted that requires that the earlier intervention of tollovata be temporarily restored in view of its circumstances and values in 2021. The new arrangement for distribution will then be implemented after February 1 next year. Thus, at tollovates, he will be assigned first to the highest bidder, so as soon as possible, and so on until the available quotas are distributed and the bidders are fully paid. Was this the current arrangement for the intervention of the new legal adjustment, as stated earlier, for the past few years. In addition, it is suggested in the bill to list numbers in 65. gr. ... different. The log changed at the beginning of 2020, so the article needs to be updated at the same time. As we have considered, the primary objective of the bill is to minimize the damage already being done by domestic agricultural producers. The import of agricultural products has remained almost unchanged, while demand has been substantially reduced. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and I'd like to refer to the bill that follows the bill, which contains a detailed discussion on its subject. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andtowhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u134	A respectable president. I welcome this bill of agri-environmental development, but with mixed minds, for a temporary change in the legal environment of the contract-based tollovate. It is said to minimise the impact of the pandemic environment on domestic agricultural production products and to reduce the damage already experienced by the national manufacturers. It is certainly a step in the right direction and recognition of agricultural challenges, but it is not necessary to go further in support, the highest. Minister? Would it not be more effective to postpone all the invitations of customs while this serious situation exists, and the effect of the pandemic may be as some examples, e.g. In Norway? As we know and the highest. The rate of the epidemic has severely affected the survival of agriculture. True, this can lead to long - term results. I wondered, " Is there anything else I can do? ' We know that this has been responded both in Norway and in the European Union, both by direct funding, by favorable loans, and by temporary means from European competitive policies. Is there any such possibilities here?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u135	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Yes, in many ways I agree with that. A senator that there is reason to go further to face the impact of agriculture, as did many other sectors in the recent situation, especially this year. I don't believe that the outing, contracting duties of Iceland should be delayed, as with the European Union. We are to fulfill that obligation. It has, for example. There was a lot of discussion about the possibility of communicating with the European Union on the controversial customs agreement, and I thought it would be extremely slow on the part of Iceland to initiate a discussion with the proposal that we had broken off our contract duties. I've been working on trying to deal with these events in a way that's different from them and trying to work out how we're going to deal with the agreements we're going to make until they get blown up or they're gonna run out. I know the discussion about the treatment of tollovita in Norway and the European Union. In some respects, some of the things mentioned are cut off. Nevertheless, it is quite clear that our neighboring countries, many of them, and since the European Union, have taken action to support the agriculture and, of course, work on it in the same way as they do. There are few ways and we're looking at them, and I expect to introduce them soon and in what way we intend to meet the agriculture in his difficult time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u136	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, answer and explain. However, I would like to encourage the members of the council to discuss the matter. I am so glad that there is a way to support and strengthen agriculture at these times. I'd like to come in and say it's important to review the customs contract with the European Union because of the ideological failure following the Baltrexit. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it not correct to understand that a preliminary non-political agreement between Iceland and Britain has actually been negotiated for all the exports that have taken place within this EU agreement, it has gone primarily to Britain, and there is really nothing left to negotiate with the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u137	A respectable president. In this regard, I would like to say that the criteria for the European Convention between Iceland and the European Union are not the same as when it was made 2015 and became valid 2018, for the simple reason that Britain is no longer a member of the European Union after the New Year's Eve, probably. So that most of the things we've been trying to move out under this toll contract are sheep and animals, but there are other factors that have been without tolls, such as outlets on horses. This has been in the sheep's flesh, in the meat part, and it has been able to go to Britain. Although only for this reason, there is reason to request a discussion with the European Union on the review and at least to discuss this. But it would be completely crazy to me that before such discussions would happen, we would have broken the agreement in a sense or another way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u138	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his history of this bill and, to some extent, for dealing with that condition in connection with the accumulation of meat supplies, both with slaughter holders and with farmers with meat on foot. Failure to do so will lead to collapse of meat prices to the manufacturer. The situation is very serious. I actually had the same question as why. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir to the highest. Minister. The minister explained that it was difficult to postpone the planned invitation of tollvotes entirely to achieve some of the agreements with the EU. However, the minister's case showed that further research was being made. Then I'd like to ask, " Which way did it go? ' A minister has the impression that it is possible to leave? And regarding this step that's being taken now, will it make any difference to the position of meat upstairs? Will it soon change anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u139	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Will this step that is being taken, i.e. to bring the intervention to your former outlook, to change something? I hope it can strengthen the position of Icelandic production. Tolla is another support for most countries in support of domestic production. This wish even has. conducted in the discussion with the representatives of the article, even though there was an increased viewpoint, to be said, to postpone the invitation. I'm prepared to look forward to that which I said before, to respect negotiations, and that we'd rather try to develop a position to prepare conversations about recording or renegotiate a contract if that's what we're willing to do. If not, we need to evaluate the situation in this light. But I refuse to believe that I would not be able to converse on the grounds that I have already traced. It is being assessed by the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Employment whether such materials are needed and the work is about to end soon. Regarding further research and what route might be possible, we may be able to work further with the invitation. I'm having you examined lively for support, e.g. carnivores that have difficulty; lamb and beef specifically, in part, to pigs, and to smaller ones in chicken. So there are several ways of doing this. As I mentioned earlier in the past, I'm hoping to introduce them soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u140	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and that further means are being sought to meet this situation. I'll be keeping an eye on it. In the past, the minister said that he wanted to negotiate and keep relationships in order. I understand it very well and respect it. But on the matter of postponing a planned campaign, could the minister explain a little more clearly that it is not possible to go that way? Could he look into it a little further, so I can understand that answer even more?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u141	A respectable president. I have no doubt about it. A senator will pay close attention to what happens in this case. It's good to know. When asked what it means to us if we delay the planned invitation, it is so simple that we negotiated access to the market for our production in Europe, about the availability of Icelandic production into this market of 500 million people. We agreed that against the benefits of the contract party, certain goods were allowed to be brought into the country on their side. That's what I'm talking about. That's what we're supposed to do. If we cut it off without discussion and agreement, we are putting our other interests at risk. And there's a lot to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u142	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. He has discussed that this campaign cannot be delayed because it is a contract, and we have a contract to be agreed on, and I agree with it. But now there are conditions in agriculture, as well as agriculture in the European Union, totally out of control and skied almost overnight. So you ask yourself: Has this been discussed with the European Union, the idea that it is necessary to delay this output because of the circumstances in which agriculture is involved, largely due to the viral epidemic? Would it not have been reasonable to discuss with the European Union that it was extremely important for Iceland that we be allowed to postpone this campaign? Then there's no violation of the agreement. It's just a contract between parties that, because of this situation, it's allowed. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to go over it a little. I would also like to ask about the agreement in general: In fact, I have felt that this contract should have been dismissed because of its smiles and have made a suggestion, because Britain is leaving the European Union. I think at last the Icelandic government is realizing that there may be something worth looking at and that it is the way to go. But is it not a great problem with the contract, whether we like it or not, that there is no room within it to deal with such situations at the time of their arrival?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u143	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I'd like to start with that as long as possible. A senator concluded, whether there is no problem in the contract, not somehow able to cope with such a situation. Indeed, it might be good to keep in the contract some of the things that would take advantage of undefined circumstances. But I don't think it's easy to write such a thing into a tax agreement any other than that it's a negotiation if or when something might happen. That's what we've been planning, and we're even. in the work that I've mentioned before by the State Department and the Department of Agriculture and Sea Department of Agriculture to evaluate the interests that are being enjoyed in the contract that many people consider today to be extremely adverse. I don't get tired of reminding you that in these contracts, there are other interests, and then I mean the national integrity. We cannot discuss one small part of this contract, even though it seems that agriculture is a big part of the nation's industry. We need to keep the overall picture in mind when we discuss the information or how we're going to change the deal. I mentioned earlier, in contrast to the agrienvironmental factors that enjoy toll benefits, under the international market agreement. The horse farm in Iceland is for example. ... withfreetollfreewillof this deal. It would make a difference if we told the deal one by one and got some soup over us, if that were to happen. [[The president calls.]] I'm not saying this is happening, but these are the points that need to be assessed when we discuss the reaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u144	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. In view of his time, he could not answer my question about whether there had been any discussions with the European Union. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to enter only the point of falling from an invitation, not to be viewed as a violation of the contract. V.E.G. A minister has spoken here about having to meet the agriculture in another way. I'm happy, of course, but I feel that the government has been way too tight on this. It has now been apparent since April in terms of land management as a result of the viral epidemic. V.E.G. A minister has mentioned it here to examine other ways. Now I don't see any sign in the budget that farmers should be treated with some kind of financial support. I'd like to mention in the context that now the European Union is just about to give farmers special financial resources, up to 100,000 euros, or about 16 million. K. Then farmers in the European Union have the option to take a favorable loan. [[The president calls.]] The European Union is facing these difficult situations. I'm waiting for the highest. Ministers to review the ways in which he has planned to do so because of lack of financial support.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u145	A respectable president. I did not have time to try to answer whether a direct discussion has taken place. We've had discussions with our embassy in Brussels, and we've been raising up a question about the position upstairs, and I'm going to go somewhere deeper into that. Similarly, the foreign minister has taken these matters into account in the field of communication, if we can put it that way, has been going on, without me getting ever further involved. That's right, as a matter of course. One senator mentioned, that on the budget bill doesn't see the place, but I expect we'll be able to introduce in the next way how we directly cooperate with farmers. I have specifically mentioned the meat production that I believe is temporary in the face of considerable difficulty. We may be suspended in these materials, but I'd like to mean that we're trying to win this thing at the rate we can do. [[The president calls.]] I expect it to be better when it finally comes out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u146	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister's concern was that we cannot discuss one small bite at a time. Rather, we need to look at the overall context of things. I agree with him about that. The minister did well to discuss such treaties. They follow duties and rights, and both parties must respect theirs. I fully understand the difficult situations that have happened in certain sectors in this country, including food production, and that should be taken seriously. However, because we need to look at the big context, let us not forget that much of the nation has also suffered such a blow. Some 25,000 people are out of work. This crisis hardens people who have to watch for each dollar when they buy for food. This simply needs to be kept in mind when discussing a bill of this nature, not the little bits, but the overall context. It is true to bear in mind, too, that we Icelanders have always been the most successful when we have been in great cooperation with other national and commercial freedoms. The public is regularly reminded of the resulting benefits as well as of foreign competition, especially in the form of more goods development, lower price to consumers, and better production. Of course, the European Food Manufacturers have suffered a major loss of income because of Covid-19 and I realize that the General and the government need to take action. It has, in part, been done. We've watched the government go into large distributions on funding and favorable loans to companies in the country. In fact, many of these food companies have been able to enter the same environment and have no doubt availed themselves of it. I think we should ask ourselves, " Is it any further to promote these actions and perhaps look to the European Union? ' Birgir Þórarinsson's farmers mentioned earlier, providing direct support for farmers instead of risking another one to stretch back into the pockets of consumers, and to damage competition in the country. If we don't agree to this bill, then at least it's not. possible, and I'd like to say likely, that we're looking at the prices of food in a time of historic unemployment in the country where a lot of people are just having a hard time getting together for food shopping from month to month. In Iceland, with what happens in many other countries, the food basket is not particularly cheap. Food prices have been increasing recently with the falling crew of the crown. Even higher food prices will simply extend the spiral that will lead to an even higher food prices that will result in greater inflation, with a significant impact on the entire population in the country. So it's nothing trivial, and this discussion cannot be discussed as if it's just being discussed with one industry and those who work with it. This will take on everyone. Each of us can then make an independent assessment as to whether such a procedure is better in all respects. At least We can't afford to talk about it without coming in on it. The League's going against this bill at the highest level. Ministers and protests it simply. So we direct the government to face a rather temporary loss of income by other sources of food, by direct means, if this has not been done to a full extent. I trust the Icelandic food industry in vain to continue producing good, healthy, and valuable goods. Food production is precious to us. However, such protective records are part of an old and harmful heritage that must be blown off. This does not mean that we cannot support agriculture in an abundance and even an abundance of ways that we have done so far. I'm pointing out that if we succeed, we can go to a market that we haven't made full use of. We know the story when men increased their foreign assignments and brought new ideas and new tastes to their homes. We know, too, that when foreign food production was opened up in Iceland, the national producers showed extraordinary mentality and shifting in product development. This is what we know about the cheeses. We know the thing about meat. We know about this with a lot of things. On the contrary, I'd like to say that these contracts are supposed to bring us good luck. True, we are dealing with temporary problems, and surely the Icelandic food producers are in trouble with Covid, as are so many other employment projects. But I don't think this is the right step. Instead, let us give direct support to producers in trouble, whether they are in the food industry or in various other sectors that are also alert to protect themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u147	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The Consequences stand out here, they're opposed to this bill, and they may not be surprised. As a result of the agriculture process, the United States has felt that agriculture products are most desirable. But it's even that way, huh? A senator, that toll protection is an integral part of the agrienvironment and all countries protect their farms by customs protection. This includes the European Union. In many ways, it may be said that negotiations have been managed because of the 2015 customs contract that took place in 2018, a place on Icelandic farmers, and in many respects this is a good contract for the European Union. They protect their agriculture well and agree well with farmers when they negotiate. That is something that we could look to because consultations with stakeholders in my court have been made when this kind of contract has been made. Hv. A senator specifically noted that the price of agricultural products would be raised by this bill that, in fact, the law, is not going far enough. I'd like to what. A senator explains what happened to us because the consumers did not benefit from these customs in the form of a lower price. Well, that's once that kind of thing. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u148	Mr. President. It's different for me before. I recall a number of Central Party Parliaments coming up here talking about subjugation of foreign foods, which would actually be harmful to domestic production. I guess all the observations would show that competition of this kind has led to lower prices of individual products. I believe, however, that there are also so many other factors that contribute to a small nation such as we benefit from a fine, competitive nation from abroad. We know this from other sources of employment. In the 1970's or early 1970's, when various sectors were opening up, many producers, who were struck at the beginning, but I think that was an improvement for Icelandic society. There's gonna be a second. Not surprisingly, a senator says we are opposed to this bill. That's good, but that's because we're special against agriculture. I'm a spokesman for our support of Icelandic agriculture as best we can. I have not spoken to you about reducing the amount of money we spend on Icelandic agriculture. However, I want to do so in a way that is different from what I have been doing. I don't want to encourage the production of a product that really needs to be paid for when it's sold. I would like to encourage the fact that it is the way of Icelandic agriculture that farmers have a better salary than they do. Farming is important from a cultural point of view in order to preserve our country, and we can produce environmental, good, and wholesome products. But in order to do so, we need to engage in more product development than we've been able to achieve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. I am glad that a member of the body spoke to the agricultural field in a relatively warm way. But it is vital to realize that agriculture is now in serious trouble, and we are seeing very much supply in the country. These are situations that we have never experienced before, and we are familiar with them in many more sectors, as we have seen many of them. That's why we have to face the agriculture in some way. When accumulation has become so intense that farmers cannot sell their goods, the article is in serious trouble. At the same time, agricultural goods are being imported. Everyone sees it only one way to end, these domestic producers can't sell their product, and they just can't have it already because of the situation, and then it's going to end in bankruptcy in the article. It is something we do not want to see because we are to protect domestic food production. There are many reasons for that, and especially national security. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator: If he is opposed to this bill, how does he picture facing farmers? It's perfectly clear that there's got to be something, okay? Senator. It would be good for him to just list it here and now in what ways he takes care of dealing with the problem of agriculture, for he does not want to support this bill, which actually isn't going far enough. He must have some solutions to these things because we don't want to see mass failures, as I mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u150	Mr. President. No, we do not want to see a number of expenditures in this article more than in other sectors or in the homes of our country. I knew why. A senator to me then knew that I was brought up in a agricultural and food industry and, of course, know the importance of agriculture, and I've always been exposed to it. I've also seen from growing up and to this day how products have improved, the quality of goods has increased, loyalty has improved. All of this, I think, is the fact that we have opened up to the world. We naturally have an amazing production mechanism for our agricultural production, and we may not necessarily produce what the market wants at a time. At times, we have had too much of our products, so we need to get the production away from us and pay with it. This is not wise, whether from a general business or when we face climate - related problems. I'd much rather strengthen the agriculture by paying support to farm, direct production in a greener direction rather than doing it every kilogram. Here's what we call a what. A senator after solving the problem of agriculture with caffeine solutions. I can't. However, I have said it, and in my speech I thought it would be normal to do it with the direct strength and direct approach if the people who have generally done enough for business in the country are not enough. Then I'll return to my words. In response, a senator spoke of the best ways in which the European Union was involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u151	Mr. President. This bill is a factor in trying to meet the serious problem of agriculture, and it aims to create temporary changes in the law environment involved in the distribution of tollovates in agrienvironment schemes. I used to say in the counter, I think, and we in the Central Party, that this bill doesn't go far enough and that there's every reason to postpone this mission, temporarily at least During these difficulties. It is proper to mention that customs protection is an integral part of the agri-environment work, and it must have the desired effect to protect domestic production, and so, as I said earlier, the entire state protects its agriculture by some means. It is vital that we protect domestic food production. It provides food security for the nation and for a number of jobs, and we will have the country built. So there are many reasons why we are guarding this important industry. Therefore, customs treaties are not to cause degradation in Icelandic agriculture. On the other hand, agri-environmental assessment of agricultural interest has not been sufficiently protected in the existing customs agreements, and unfortunately, it has not been successful enough in this process. In any case, we have reached the point where this contract has become a major burden to agriculture, and especially now that the virus epidemic has caused serious problems in the many sectors of the country and in people who have lost their jobs. We know that European agriculture is not competitive to agriculture in neighboring countries, e.g. Geographically. Analysis by OECD gives important evidence of this, all analyses, that toll protection is very important for Icelandic agriculture and, in fact, essential elements in the labour conditions of this article. So, with these contracts, European farmers, European manufacturers have been involved in an internal market here and it is particularly prominent in the viral epidemic, when supply collection becomes the way it is now in the country because of the number of tourists, that this contract is even more troublesome and realizes that there will be no changes will be serious consequences. This is a step in the right direction, but we don't think it's enough, and it's a way to wait for this auction. V.E.G. While a minister is concerned that we might be breaking the contract, I stress that it is necessary to take this discussion immediately with the European Union in the light of the circumstances in which we are in which we are in, to agree with the European Union that this is the way we Iceland think it is necessary to go. But it's another arm that I've spoken for the fact that this contract will be canceled and put back together because of its smiles, because Britain is breaking off the contract. We've known for months, and that will mean that our largest market area, Britain, will pass out of the deal. Then this deal is actually broken. Everyone sees it, and I think the European Union realizes that too. I think it is necessary for the government here to investigate the actual effects of customs protection on the state of Iceland for the changes in the international business environment in general. Besides, I have to say, and I came in earlier, that I believe there's a flaw in this customs contract that there's no room within him to deal with the conditions that have come up into the agriculture right now because of the virus epidemic. These situations are beyond our control, and it would be natural that these two parties could act upon if circumstances did not arise that were made by anyone at the time of the contract. I've discussed here that there are serious conditions in agriculture related to the viral epidemic and, in the opinion of agriculture stakeholders, a predictable failure in the article that will have a major and lasting impact on Icelandic agriculture. Therefore, there are a number of measures that must be taken from the United States. Actually, it should have been done already. In April, governments were made aware of what was coming to land because of the viral epidemic, and it has taken far too long to respond to my judgment. This is, in fact, the first reaction to the government to the agriculture. Many other fields of employment, especially the tourism, had arrived almost immediately, while much more was involved in agriculture. It is clear that the import of farms has narrowed the markets at the same time as the consumption in this country has been greatly reduced. The virus epidemic has still added to the present problem and can be attributed to the collapse of tourists'arrival in the country and disease - control operations. They've sold on meat, like just poultry meat, horse, pig, bovine and lamb drawn together, especially lamb and bovine meat for the past three months, about 9%. Thus, supplies are being piled up both in leg livestock and in farms and in supply stores of the MAH. Therefore, there is a great need to respond and in a way that results. Therefore, I believe it is absolutely necessary, Mr. President, that there is a direct supply for farmers. I miss it very much in the budget bill that there's no such thing expected, and I haven't been in the operations the government has put in, nor in the fifth and largest pack of measures that now comes in the budgets, and there's no mention of the agriculture. We must also realize that the export of commercial agricultural products, such as carnivores, is very limited. It is simply due to the high production costs here and the circumstances, the natural circumstances, the size of the country, etc. It is really unrealistic to assume that we will become a large importer on farms, so the circumstances of farmers are very limited in this regard. It is evident that the commercial and export opportunities that reflect the cost of production are rapidly competitive. Perhaps it is in the garden, where there is a chance. Of course, we should give priority to food security and to consumers within the country with zeal. However, because of the import of this abundant supply in the country, a clot has been introduced, especially in carnivorous products. In the past two years, an organization in the dairy industry has seen a change in milk and dairy products. There is a collection of milk proteins, such as more sectors, and it has primarily to do with bringing in large amounts of cheeses and imbalances in these matters, simply because the customs contract is against us in this regard. On top of all of this, it has been found that toll protection is a major failure when it comes to import and toll numbers. This matter has come to the attention and is under investigation. Aggressive agricultural organization had the impression that toll protection would not work as well, and this was the move on the wrong toll code, which was still adding to the problem. So this has become quite a bit, Mr. President, to be said in a mild way. It is a natural cause of massive damage, and it certainly needs to be handled, which seems to be a lot of wood and may be a long way into the outcome. It just shows that the whole system seems to be in some sort of roughness, and it has to be handled firmly in that regard. I have to say at the end, Mr. President, that as I mentioned in answer, the European Union is meeting farmers with direct financial contributions, and I think it is absolutely necessary for the Icelandic government to look at that route. I mentioned, for example. and access to low-cost loans, so the European Union has extensive support measures to the agriculture. The same applies to other countries, such as Norway, which we often compare with in agriculture. I hope so. I expect the highest. Agricultural minister will now begin to tell us how he intends to meet his agriculture in a different way, as he mentioned earlier, though he does not see any financial sign. As far as we are concerned, the conclusion is that this bill is not going far enough. We believe that this tender invitation should be delayed. It is by far as the situation is now. I am convinced that the European Union will show them understanding because they are in the same situation. It's, for example. can be reasoned by saying that farmers have not received any direct money from the state. This is actually the first action proposed. There should then be some argument, so it will not be considered a violation of the Treaty on the part of Iceland to temporarily postpone it during the discussion. It's like the highest. The minister mentioned earlier has all these matters to consider in the Ministry of State on the whole contract, which is then very important to review, how to proceed out of that contract because there is nothing to be done with this contract when Britain is left the European Union. I think it's perfectly clear. In any case, the conclusion is: In order to reduce the likelihood of land crash, which no one wants to see, I am absolutely convinced of it, I have to promote the agricultural support system. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that the support available here in the form of a protection is maintained and that the State will be strengthened by farmers with direct donations in view of the condition of the virus epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u152	Mr. President. The bill we have here is not a good bill. I think it's safe to say it at the start of the day. It is true that, like a large part of Icelandic commercial life, there is a serious problem in agriculture and food production. However, there is no need to support European agriculture and food production through increased business protection and barriers. That's the wrong way. There's always the wrong way, and it's also wrong in Covid's time. In business, there must always be basics. A competition is good for farmers and food producers like everyone else. This method is designed to prevent imports, however, which in itself is not very high in view of national production. It can be questioned that reducing this import will be of any importance to farmers or Icelandic food producers. With the same reasoning, you might think so. promotes an idea in this spirit of whether it would be appropriate to set the import restrictions on alcohol in order to protect Icelandic manufacturers. After all the tourists left, there has been a lot less drinking in the country. Is that the right way? No, it wouldn't think of any living man like that. That's it. This point helps us to see that agrienvironmental system requires complete deliberation. I'm not going to discuss it here, but it's obvious that the emphasis on production is still too high. We are simply producing too much, especially meat. That is a fact that can't be overlooked. That is why the system must be changed so that farmers and farmers can otherwise sustain themselves. Of course, meat production will never go off here, I'm not talking about it at all. But it's too much. There's too much emphasis on making meat. Of course, farming and the European food producers face a great challenge, as do so many other articles. To meet the challenge, you need to use similar or similar differences as other employment issues are used in the same situation. The solution is not shutting down, reducing competition. This cannot be the solution. Of course, this is a big problem. How embarrassing it must be for those who speak extensively about free competition and the free trade of this kind of bill! But I'm not going to have that many words. These are basic principles that are important in this context. We're supposed to help farmers, we're supposed to help the agriculture, we're supposed to help the food producers. But this is not the way we should do it at all. Reverence will not be able to support this bill. It's just far away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u153	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place here. In many ways it has been interesting, even though little was especially surprising. There is good reason to express appreciation for the warmth that speakers have shown toward Icelandic farming. That certainly is satisfying and good, though the speakers will discuss how to strengthen and support him. I'd like to mention a few things about what has happened, e.g. The claim that this change will result in an increase in consumer prices. I don't think it's possible for anyone to answer that question. The global price of meat has dropped 14% in the remaining year. We have no idea how it will reflect a price for a possible import to the consumers here. Similarly, the price must depend on the demand for customs at the nearest tenders. The decline in customs is not to be reduced to half the amount being offered in June. Similarly, the effect of the above - mentioned Covid -19 is evident by the effect on the level of oers. Of course, the change of distribution is also one of the factors involved in the forthcoming decline. There are, in fact, too many uncertainty factors in the situation today so that people can make a definitive claim that the increasing price to consumers is being increased. I don't think we have any direct messages. I have had discussions with parties in Icelandic commerce and among immigrants, most of whom have a complete understanding of the content of the bill being brought here. This is because they appreciate the situation in these areas. For what it is. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson said that farmers and farms had some way to feed them other than today, I'm going to say that there's a difficult way to find. It has been attempted in a reexamination of agricultural contracts over the past few years, including has come up with some new features. This is especially true of sheep'flocks, where it is called adaptive agreement. I can totally agree with those members of the council who have mentioned that the basis for social prosperity is still a factor. in a free business. That's a long way from making up for the claims presented at any given moment. A member of the council earlier noted that this matter is somewhat awkward for those who are free - minded and who have talked to them about it. The current adjustment is merely to abandon this arrangement in the implementation of tollovita in terms of the restoration of agrienvironmental business in the Iceland government. The change is not larger than that. During that reign, there were no major changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u154	A meeting was made available today at a meeting of presidents with members of Congress to complete a discussion of specific matters for this day. Therefore, the president considers that there is also a agreement that a meeting can last longer today than the council assumes, the need to do so is an agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u155	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the health insurance law, No. 111/2000, and the bill is intended to trust in the damaging position of those who may be affected by or following vaccination against the Covid-19 disease, are used for the vaccine proposed by the local health authorities. It should be stated here at the beginning that the state has no basis to believe that a safe vaccine is being given and that all necessary safety and good pharmaceutical manufacturing measures are protected from its production. However, such as drug insurance, has not been in force in this country. in Denmark, where specific guarantees are comparable to the health insurance as a result of drug ion. The bill actually makes such a guarantee because of the Covid-19 vaccines. The bill suggests that by law on the patient insurance, there is a new provisional principle for paying legal reforms to those who have been vaccinated in Iceland against the Covid-19 disease in the years 2021/2023 with a vaccine prescribed by the Icelandic health authorities due to damage or mishandling of the vaccine properties, including transport, storage, distribution, or vaccination by a healthcare professional. It is then suggested that the health insurance agency carry the responsibilities of the arrangement, as stated in Article 9. The law. This wording is used in the terms ◯ vaccine characteristics as it appears in the current 3 mg. Section 3. The law of the law, and it has been performed by interpretation, which is expected to be supported by the implementation of a new provisional principle. Medicinal product characteristics include: ADRs, which have been identified as reactions to harmful medicinal products and for whom an adverse reaction has been identified. In this case, it is not limited to the vaccine characteristics but also necessary to include cases where vaccine has changed due to mishandling or inadequate management, whether in the manufacturer, carrier, distribution manufacturer or in the care of the vaccine. It is also essential that, under the heading, an event occurs on the basis of the healthcare professional itself. This addition is suggested in order to make double progress, but in explanation of 3 mg. Section 3. in the bill on patient insurance, it was found that the damage caused by medication, or when there is insufficient information on drugs, or when medication failure occurs, despite the terms of the article under the law. Therefore, this article should be made clear that this is true of vaccines and when vaccinated with the Covid-19 disease. A respectable president. A review by the Ministry of Health on the harmful status of individuals vaccinated with a Covid-19 vaccine has been conducted. It is important, although all the rules for the investigation and development of the vaccine and the good manufacturing of the products are strictly adhered to, and it is proposed that the vaccine should meet the requirements for marketing authorisation, to consider the harmful status of the vaccinees. This is especially because public and national interests recommend widespread immunizations that will be performed as soon as possible. The above observations have shown that the adverse reactions, known or unknown, due to the properties of medicinal products, including vaccines, are not sufficiently guaranteed. On the legal basis, differences in right to repair damage due to physical injury have been resolved, resulting from adverse drug reactions, no. 25/1991. There are various conditions where they can be applied, including laws. ... inconcerned. The concept of error in that law is relative, and so is the case. depending on how the product, in this case, is offered or introduced. If all information is provided, for example, about vaccines and the person receiving a vaccination will make an informed decision, knowing that side effects may follow, it is unlikely that they could have a right to damage on the basis of law No. 25/1991. In this case, it is possible that in particular 3 mg is stated. Section 3. Implicit on Patient Insurance, No. 111/2000 non-replacement of the law if damage is attributed to the medicinal product used in the study or treatment of the disease. In view of this, a change in the patient insurance law is put in place to make sure of the right to improve if damage is caused by the vaccine or mishandled properties, including transport, storage, distribution or vaccination by a healthcare professional, as previously stated. It is suggested that the terms covered by the vaccinees be included in 2021/2023 but that this will provide sufficient safety experience for the vaccine and would normally apply to the vaccine as with other vaccines, such as 3 mg. Section 3. The law. A respectable president. The public interests of the public demand to stop the spread of the Covid-19 disease and therefore make it necessary for the general public to be confident that they will not be exposed to the disease, although any side effects may occur. For this reason, efforts are made to strengthen the damage rights of those who receive a vaccine against the disease from the health authorities in this country. Naturally, and in accordance with the equality rules, those who may be physically damaged by the vaccine's characteristics of the Covid-19 disease are affected or damaged by its mishandling, including transport, storage, distribution or vaccination, are identical to those affected by treatment or study injury that falls below 2. It's a health insurance policy. This includes a less causal measure but results from general rules of damage to the court and a less causal measure than from the general rules, such as 1 mg. 2.g. Implicit on Patient Insurance, No. 111/2000. This also involves making a budget of damages on the basis of rules of damage rights, although at the maximum of 2.mg. Section 5. The law says that money is 11,605,731K. of January 1, 2020. The same law also allows for such an improvement to be of minimal value, but by 2020 that amount is 116,057k. A respectable president. If this principle were to be legal, it would strongly strengthen the legal status of the vaccinees recommended by the National Competent Authorities in the event of adverse reactions leading to physical injury, despite the development of the vaccine and manufacturing practices. With regard to the basis of damage efforts responsibilities and causal relationship, this country's justice would be comparable to that in Denmark and Norway. I have now explained the main subject of the bill and suggest that the case be followed by 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u156	A respectable president. As a result of this decree of Congress, the Allied Council is consulted to confirm for Iceland a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands on Fishing in Icelandic and British jurisdictions in 2021 that were temporarily passed away by cross - mail exchange between the government of the United States earlier this year. These agreements stipulate the authority of parties to fish seafood in legal history for one another in 2021. The contract can provide up to 30,000 tons of fur after a total of 500,000 tons. Iceland is authorized to hunt as many as 1,300 trains of macroil a year in Faeroe Islands'fishing history. The nations agreed to work on changing the arrangement of these negotiations with the aim of making a longer-term frame deal. There are a number of factors, such as greeting and access, which could be adjusted according to the circumstances at any given time. The treaty went into force on November 23, 2020, and will be permanently validated when the administrative conditions of each country have been met. Before this deal was made on the basis of the earlier 1976 agreement on the identity of the Faeroes to fish Iceland's jurisdictions, it was decided that high - quality ships were allowed to catch 5,600 trains of bottom fish off Iceland between 2019 and 2020. However, the overall forces of cod will not exceed 2,400 trains, the total segments of a cone will not exceed 400 trains, and no fishing will be allowed on the hatches and grays. Is that the same amount from the previous contract, except the number of cones falling from 650 trains because of the poor conditions of the strain. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, this proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u157	A respectable president. This is where we'll recommend a bill to legalize the change in media law, No. 38/2011, supporting private media services. It's very enjoyable, and it's important to recommend this bill today. The media have played an important role in democracies. Not only do the media spread news of current events but they also serve as an important stage for social exchange at a time. Thus, the media contributes to an open and enlightened discussion that is of importance in decision making. The situation of special media in this country and in many parts of the world has been difficult. Distractions from the media include: It is suggested that a growing proportion of advertising is published on the tissues of foreign large companies, while much of the free media is available. Private media also depend on advertisements and subscriptions, and when significant contractions occur in both cases, it is clear that something is yielding. Governments around the world, especially in northern Europe, have responded to this trend by providing private media support or other improvements in their environment. Other northern countries have been on the lead in the support of multimedia freedoms for decades. In the beginning it was mainly about newspapers, but in recent years it has also included a different kind of media, such as Internet media and audio and video media. A respectable president. The goal of the bill is to strengthen the private media to enable them to do their part in modern democracy. To achieve that goal, it is suggested that private media services, which meet certain criteria, can be supported by some of the cost of communication. I will now explain the main subject of the bill. It will be expected that support will be made up of up to 25% of the relevant cost of mass editor work. In this context, therefore, the types of workers are defined and the definition is somewhat limited to being common to all media, i.e. printers, servers, audio and graphics. Support for the media is expected to be no more than 25% of the budget for the project. The bill expects the Minister of Education and Culture to appoint a three-man distribution committee according to the appointment of a state accountant. One of the requirements for a local judge, one of the legal accountants, and the third to have expertise in the media or in the media court. To receive support, the media must meet various requirements. In other parts of the North countries, the requirements are to follow their role models for public support and appeals to the media. Inevitably, though, it has been found to adapt the rules to the Icelandic media market and was also taken into account by the experience and knowledge resulting from the intervention in us to the special media because of a pandemic crown virus. The main conditions that the media need to meet to receive support are: Operational costs are supportive, i.e. directly paid for journalists, editors and assistant editors, photographers, screen readers, test readers because of the amendment and management of materials and direct contractors to the same parties for the creation and the media. The media should be registered or authorised for audio or image media and have worked uninterrupted for 12 months or more before the application period. The media should operate at least Three full-time personnel working to raise and communicate materials, while one local media worker. The media shall have submitted annual reporting to the Media Committee for the previous year and have provided a media committee with sufficient data and information on the property of the media agency. Official fees, taxes, and taxpayers, due one day before the end of the year, are not underestimated by the media. The salary and rights of employees on the media should be in accordance with the laws and collective agreements. At the end of the previous year, there was no problem with the media, as can be said in the root text. The bill expects the law to go into effect on January 1. and the first distribution of sector support will take place in the current year. A respectable president. With the bill, Iceland is seeking to join the other northern countries and other European countries, which strengthen the media's private resources and thus contribute to media diversity. Support made by the bill is expected to enable the media to promote their editors, to be the domain of communication and freedom of expression, and thus fulfill their role as one of the cornerstones of democracy. It is hoped that the procedure will enhance the public media lock, the knowledge of social matters, and the sense of democracy. As regards the media environment, there are laws on the bill that contribute to greater transparency in their activities and hence more confidence. I encourage Congress to negotiate and agree on this matter, and the importance for Icelandic society is immense. After that, I suggest that the bill be after 1st. O.R., a respectable president, referred to what. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u158	President. I'm glad to hear it. Minister has come to pass on this matter. I have observed it at many levels, and I have shared that opinion with the highest degree. Minister that Iceland should not be one of the northern states that does not support private media. Clearly, the situation of the unique media has been difficult for some time and becomes increasingly difficult. V.E.G. A minister came in fine with the sleazy advertisements, and thus income, as are foreign shelters and webs, and we all know how the crown virus has affected nearly every activity here, and especially the media through advertising, as well as other factors. I wanted to have a little place to say. Minister for what I mentioned with foreign resources. V.E.G. Only the minister came in on it. I am convinced that these matters need to be handled in a very public way. The national media market, private media, but especially the way advertising goes on Facebook and YouTube, as well as the names of these Web sites known to people who are skilled on the Internet than I do. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if the top priority of the media at the same time is funded. Government to consider any action in this country, even in some international cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u159	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Yes, it is of utmost importance to consider the international environment in which we live. We'll see if we're going into this large network, there's ads from Icelandic sources. It's a trend that has occurred not only in Iceland but also elsewhere. I mention, for example, that the French, and whether also the Spanish, have taken their Kingdom publisher out of a commercial market. They even expected that the private media would increase, but one of the events that took place, and this was some years ago, the advertisements were increasing to the large foreign groups. Therefore, the European Union and others have wanted to come together, and the taxing of these large foreign organisations has made it possible for something to come in and return to the relevant Member States. We are, of course, in cooperation with the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, and it's in cooperation with the Economic and Economic Development Organization to cover it because there's a leak. There's advertising revenues for these parties. In my opinion, this is one of the biggest subjects. And why do I speak to this media project and to strengthen the media system? That is also because we are not so many here who speak our beautiful language. One thing we can see is that our young ones are very numerous in these foreign groups, their availability of English has never been more, and not only when they are learning English but they have English in front of them directly during their speech age. That is why we need to do everything possible in this room at a council to support our language. [[The president calls.]] I might come into it better in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u160	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. We debate the importance of this matter and have had few conversations about these matters and their topics and how best to strengthen the media in Iceland. You see, I have been particularly happy that we are both in our international cooperation and at home, studying the parts of these foreign assignments. I don't think we should be afraid to look at all the ways in it, whatever it is, whether it is through the financial system or the tax system or we're going to make some changes in the cost of advertising no more, etc. There is much you can do. I have also been particularly pleased that we have had the wisdom to look forward to strengthening the media alone, not necessarily considering their contents and the content of politicians who are just ready to support the media that speak well of it is not doing their work. I was disappointed with the discussion during the summer, when we gained strength from the Special Media, some discussed it, so that it mattered to which the media were given a measure of support, instead of looking holistically at the film, asbruff, if I allow myself to gossip, abstract, would not be the word I learned in Icelandic in my own time. Democracy must be strengthened and the role of democratic coverage is that sometimes people don't always like what they are. That's why I've thought so, and I know that the highest. Minister shares my opinion that we should strengthen the media, strengthen the democratic discussion in Icelandic, and that this will result in a more healthy environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-03-31.u161	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree with this, and I want to continue with my previous challenge only the thread I had. This has to do with our children's Icelandic vocabulary, or young people, as much as he was because of its access to English literature. This can be very positive, but we also need to promote it. This government went on to provide support, reimbursement, for publishing. And what has happened? The publication of child literature has increased by 47%. That is wonderful news because we need variety of choices. One of the things I want to mean is that the availability of interesting material in Icelandic languages is limited but that of interesting English, which makes the boys and our girls less interested in Icelandic subjects. That is why we, the government, and the private people and all, need to come to this. Are we going to let Icelandic evolution and live? This is everything. Note, too, when we read on paper that it has been reduced, and the young people are online. We must have the powerful media, no matter what they are doing, as long as they deal with current issues. Thus we will achieve what we want. And if you have a young student who is very good in English and English, he or all of his ways are available.
