ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u1	President reports to the meeting of the General and Education Committee on 14th of October. Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir was elected second vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u2	The president would like to inform you that the General Assembly has received a signature of 43,423 voters who have signed a new constitution requirement. The business with the signature lists will be in the reading room.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u3	Mr. President. I'm going to call attention to industry, industry, and professionalism as a result of the future. Industry panels, as everyone knows, from shoework to electronics and constructions and obviously shape our whole life. The position of these branches is often expressed as a measure of the quality of life and the prosperity of the nations. I leave the question here whether we're good at it or not. Today, there is a silent review of all the regulations and the environment of industry in the country. We haven't heard much about it in this room. Over the past few years, we've had many debates about the importance of promoting industry in the country, and I can say that ministers, like the highest level. Ministers of education and culture and then again of tourism, industry and innovation, show this interest. And that's good. I can also say that reviewing this rule of action is always timely at any given time, but it is just as time to ensure the quality of industry and industry, and ensure that adequate industrial training actually takes place, to ensure the best knowledge and preservation of it, and to ensure the master of industry's duties, both their free and their adherence to professionalism, in other words, do not compromise the requirement of legality. A new trade school is being discussed in the capital area. I think it's a good idea if he follows a park. There you need to make sure that the study is an open school and that you can go further if you want to, to the upper level. So in the end and the idea of setting up a factory or a industrial agency to conform, it is clear that we have work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u4	President. For today's sake, over 43,000 signatures, and eight years from the vote for a new constitution, where the results were increasing, it wanted to be the basis for a new constitution. Increase the share. There is reason to remember. In 2009, the High School of Congress was requested, and prior to the election in 2013, the advance team was in favor of a review of the Constitution and was going to take the lead in finishing the case during the upcoming term. We all know how it turned out. Before the election of 2017, it was the policy of left greener to, by permission of the President, cover the work that began at the 2009 national meeting and complete a new constitution based on the proposals of the Board of Directors. Neither party has made a promise. The only honest government party in this case may be the Independence Party. The wickedness of democracy is there, that the ruler of the council is not able to interpret. All the government groups here betray democratic conclusions. Yesterday, he asked me why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Prime Minister Hrafn Gunnarsson, which included the obvious, clear, and convincing explanation that the work based on legal proposals, as the Venetian Committee called, was removed. In other words, why did the left movement not yield after its election? The answer, as I understood, was remarkable. There, prime minister found that the Venice Committee's tip to the 2013 board's bill was somehow so serious that the matter could not be continued and that it should just do something else. But not what was promised for the election. Then the prime minister said that he wanted a material discussion about the suggestions based on the bill of the Council of Government despite having the entire ideal period closed the discussion in some prehuman field. The contradictions are intense. But the prime minister will have an opportunity to have a physical discussion about the matter tomorrow when the issues of Pirata, the members of the United States, and those outside the council are scheduled. President. I would like to be the prime minister in that material discussion, such as 1st. case assumed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u5	Mr. President. At the beginning of this council, we, along with other members of the left movement, move a green bill for a change in child law, i.e. The right to care for children. The bill may not be giving up much. It may be viewed as something that we take as the right thing to do in Icelandic society. The vast majority of collective agreements include some kind of provision for caring for their children when they are ill, even though they vary somewhat with collective agreements. However, this has not been incorporated into Icelandic legislation, and perhaps it has become a long time. But behind the thinking that there is another issue that is as big or even greater as it is that this change is being defined as the right of the child. It is to ensure that each child has this right in Icelandic society. Along with this bill, a synoptic proposal is presented that discusses whether and how we can define that each child has equal rights, i.e. that the rights are not bound to the parent alone, as we can, for example, do so. In a situation where children in a large group of children are actually far less right than children who make up two parents. The case is presented in accordance with our commitment to the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, i.e. to define in a precise and clear manner the rights of children. There is also an effort to ensure that all children in Icelandic society have the same rights. I look forward to having a conversation with the members of the council on this matter when it is brought here tomorrow, that I think, and celebrate it in case of a crash. Councilmen share with me in such discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u6	A respectable president. News reports said that there was trouble. The welfare committee to discuss yesterday's situation at the Land Hospital, as it were, brought in visitors to discuss the possibility that in some way the National Hospital would be assisted, would be helped to get rid of patients who have been blessed with medical cures at the hospital and, in fact, no longer have to stay in the hospital. It was a pleasure to read about it in the news. I'll tell you, if you stand here as a senator, you often hear of committee work through the news. But if it's based on news, it seems like there's some solidarity at least. on welfare committees, for anyone to look for any means to get outsiders to help the hospital with this urgent assignment. This morning, as well as during the last few weeks, reports have been made that private workers who are familiar with this operation and already have such a business in hand with running homes for older citizens, nursing homes, and the like have offered to help the hospital with this. I read an interesting idea of using the hotels that now stand empty. Of course, they have come to use that purpose. I'd like to encourage you. the welfare committee to keep up with this issue, not allowing the discussion yesterday, but repeatedly and regularly during the next few days. I hear that the Ministry of Health has declared that it will answer these matters, but I believe that it will be for good reason. The welfare committee will follow up with this issue in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u7	A respectable president. About 45 minutes ago, the General Assembly received 43,423 signatures of our putting on a new constitution, based on a bill of the Council of Government. Prior to the weekend, two members of Congress and two non-consumers produced a bill of the same material, a bill for the Constitution of the Council of Governments. Tomorrow we expect that bill to be discussed. That in itself is good, in fact, in advance of the premeditation of the General Assembly. I asked you yesterday's highest. The prime minister's comments on how she viewed it could be explained to the nation that the direction given in the Christian Greek Scriptures could not be applied to us today or to the guidance given in the national legal requirements exactly eight years ago, on October 20, 2012. V.E.G. A minister answered with several criticisms from the Venice Committee, 2013. Now it is a good and blessed thing to give up criticism. I want to redesign that exact point. That's good and good. But this means that they should be used to improve the situation. So there is no objection. Sadly, though, this is something that has not been done by the highest level. Prime Minister, probably, I suppose, due to the government's cooperation with the Independence Party and Pronunciation... [[An earthquake.]] [[Just sit tight. (Pray forward.) That was real.]] That was real.)
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u8	That's how the program made sense. 3.m. Smoke. n. The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, had not finished his speech when some unexpected disturbance occurred at the meeting, not by human beings, but by this time, a sudden earthquake struck the house to 5.7, and not so far away. Will now be held and restored. 3.m. n.. ...... and ends his talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u9	Even so, it is important that the governments and all those in charge now show respect for the process that has been begun. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This means that in order to continue the case, the issue should, of course, be continued as it was when it stopped 2013. Don't start doing anything else, as can be understood from a talk of the highest order. Prime Minister last night.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u10	Mr. President. Under present - day conditions, with increased pressures on the health system, there are clearly some problems we face and can be attributed to government decisions, and not just in this government's time to be fair. But it sure hasn't improved in the past few years. The land hospital has many appeals, as never before. The Covid epidemic puts so much stress on the hospital staff that it is quite remarkable how well they are being watched. Governments and staff are worthy of great commendation, but this is, of course, a challenge. The demand for action is increasing, and much energy is being made to seek ways to put people in the hospital, which is overcrowded at the same time when the elderly cannot graduate because of lack of resources. These are well - known challenges. Sometimes the importance of not always feeling up the bike is expressed. We are a little involved in finding our own challenges, the same challenges over and over again. They are now in danger of again being met with a special struggle, contrary to the warnings of the best - known ones and asking for a longer course instead of instant solutions. In view of the short or long term, the same reluctant state of the government seems to look beyond the box and take advantage of the many people who have the ability, skills, and will to run for help and become a part of the solution. It is really so that governments tend to see this person as part of the problem rather than the solution, all because of where they come from. When it comes to the interests of people who live in a severely impaired quality of life because of a condition that is relatively easy to repair and the interests of older people who truly deserve something in the community than to be supplied for the rest of their life, it is unacceptable. We need a long - term policy that combines the interests of those who use the ministry, those who provide it, and those who pay it. We need governments who dare to look at these matters with transparency and equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u11	A respectable president. I am concerned that the resource regulations imposed on the government will not be satisfied. In my opinion, the law seems more likely to hold the terms of the administration together than to better rely on the national rights to common resources. V.E.G. The prime minister wrote an article on the debt of the Generals during the days, where the minister forgot the key to her being the foreman himself. It is her responsibility to offer suggestions that are in harmony but not inconsistencies with solid evidence of the majority of the nation's will. Hence, the debt made to the nation must be to take this into account and to try to discern the will of the nation. Despite a dramatic participation in 2012's national pay, however, an overwhelming greater proportion of things were agreed to lay the foundation of the proposals of government. The result, then, is a guide to the nation's will in certain terms, as in resource matters. It is not surprising, however, that the leadership of the Independence Party is trying to mislead the discussion rather than discussing the princely issue itself, that we must temporarily establish agreements on our resources to ensure the nation's real partnership. This is actually to be interpreted, so three fourths have wanted a national tenet completely independent of the material, and two thirds have since supported temporary commitment. It is absolutely clear. The determination of an independent party to go against all the proposals aimed at the temporary binding and securing of the national partnership, whether through a transverse resource committee's outcome since 2000 or by the material proposals of a management body, is not surprising. Whatever our position is on whether we want a new constitution, change or improve the current constitution, as I have been in favor and is in favor, or no change in constitution, as some seem to want, we still have the obligation to try to identify this nation's will. That's how democracy works. Not only do we detect the special interest of the government's backlands. This is not about hitting some political cones on the Twitter. It's much bigger than that. We are simply in here to do much better in these matters. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u12	Mr. President. After a talk. The last speaker, I think, is a bit dangerous to plan to make some conclusions in the way she does. But that is not the point. The main point is that people approach subjects that are administrative changes with several main objectives in mind: First, making the changes that are important, necessary, serving a purpose, is to solve some problems, not just to do something that some suggestions have been made. On the one hand, it is important that the changes are well thought and thought about them so that they are basically a common understanding of what they mean and what they mean, so that when it passes over the Constitution, the council came to understand the consequences of it. Third, make changes in as far as peace is concerned so that they do not depend on political paraphernalia at any given time on how the Constitution looks, so that the Constitution can produce political changes. A constitution is to be able to serve as a means of managing the land, how decisions are made in the land, whether it is the right government, the left government, the center control, or what it is. Political opinions will not all be resolved with governmental changes. They are primarily to serve to tell us how to make decisions in the political field. That's what I'd like to emphasize, the highest. President, on this day and hope that we can have, both tomorrow and as often, a conversation of the Constitution on the basis of fact and not a slogan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u13	V.E.G. President. Is dental health, such as health, physical, or spiritual matters? Why is dental cost not generally subsidized like other medical services? However, I have to state that in the CREEP Regulation, the discount is for the 67 - year - olds who have 75% disability for children less than 18 years of age for those who are under the age of 18 for those who are paid on income insurance, and those who are 67 years of age and older who are not paid financial insurance from a insurance agency. This is a significant discount, and in some places it is 100%. But what is first in my mind is the common citizen, the less paid; those who cannot afford to go to the dentist. It's very expensive. I'm sure dentists are talking about a general deterioration in our dental health in the last few years. People enjoy low dental health because they cannot afford to go to the dentist. It's cutting down the cost. This is a very serious matter, for apart from feelings, poor dental health can lead to far more illnesses than just dental diseases. There's the first stage of the digestive system, i.e. In the mouth, and that's important. This is also an equal case. The bioavailability of a healthcare professional should be complete, but not in this case. I feel strongly that the government will handle this matter in order to improve the equality of everyone in the field of dental care.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u14	Mr. President. It's how we organize society. A good organization can ensure peace and prosperity, but bad organization can create balance of power, promote suspicion and wolfism, and undermine the ability of human society to solve its greatest and most important task, to live and live well. Much has been said about the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, and much more will be said. However, attempts to minimize the importance of the matter, to kill it, and to bullshit have not done anything to change the fundamental reality that the nation called for a new organization after a crash, and that organization has not yet come. On this day, eight years after the nation gave a clear vote to support a journey that we made just because the old organization had failed, I'd like to say three: First, that the fundamental community organization has not yet changed according to the nation's will eight years later is evidence that the organization has just created a balance of power that now prevents needed and natural changes. Second, the suspicion that many politicians, particularly the government side at the moment, experience with their jobs, is justified because the political class has greatly damaged its credibility toward the public by eagerly ignoring nationality for eight years. Third, those politicians who have stood in the way of a new constitution because of fear of losing power must begin to realize that it is in their hands, and only their hands, to bring an end to the wolflikeness that prevails toward them and to their actions. Let's finish this. It's a long time. New constitution, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u15	Mr. President. We may now be nine months into the epidemic that has cost our lives. At that time, the General has quickly accepted a number of cases, most because of the financial interests of individuals and businesses, in order to keep them safe. It is this way, Mr. President, that many times in the past, when the General Assembly has come together, beyond the traditional times, to work hard and well and even accept matters and laws within 24 hours. Recently, Dr. Páll Hreinsson proposed opinions on the authority of a disease - control doctor and health minister under Disease Control. This made it clear that regulations and suggestions made for a short period of time during the pandemic have provided adequate legal support. It's a natural problem, Mr. President, and especially if the situation we're dealing with continues, as indicated. This was shown in the talk of the highest. Health Minister yesterday that work at the Ministry of Health was in operation to strengthen the Disease Control Act in this regard. She expected to put in a bill for the New Year's Eve. In fact, it is Christmas vacation for the Generals, so that by doing this, you cannot expect to be prepared for such a bill until the beginning of February. On the other hand, I believe that it is necessary to develop a walking pattern to strengthen this law now and to encourage the highest degree. Healthcare Minister to speed up the donation of this bill. I'm willing to bet, so I'm almost sure it's going to be very well, and it'll be done as soon as possible at the council. I'm the highest. A health minister to contribute this bill to the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u16	Mr. President. We want a new constitution, and we want a national hearing to be respected. It is proper to remember on this day what they may be worth. But I also am deeply concerned about my country's country's situation, especially those who have had to go through most of the trouble. I don't understand why the highest. A government draws its feet in support of its rural communities. April 22th. Had a drink. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einarsson, chairman of the United States, voice station at the highest level. Secretary of the local government on the problem of local society that faced them and how the government was going to exercise itself. V.E.G. The minister then said the situation was being analyzed. Six months later, there has been no pacification of the government analysis, while everyone involved in the operation of rural society realizes that many rural societies will not be able to run without government support. Other countries with whom we would like to compare ourselves with the pledge of rural society are supporting to avoid cut-offs in close-up services and further reductions in construction activities, which are wise, not just from the level of employment to a professional crisis, but from a reduction in the welfare of rural services, it will require long-term increases in the cost of the state. Besides, it's a very relaxed community policy because people who don't get to work in the communities or social services there just move away. At the beginning of June. The Conspiracy set out, led by what? paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, a synonym of the Council's resolution that the Council is the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers to have premeditated the government's preparing and implementing measures aimed at providing special support to rural areas due to conditions of the pandemic. The State meets the rural population through an equation fund but also by direct donations. Such a case will be reexamined in the next few days as one of the Union's priorities. [[The president calls.]] It is clear to all who want to see the need to meet societies in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u17	Mr. President. The idea behind a special pension theft is to give people the opportunity for extra savings to the elderly, to improve the interests of future older citizens, and to reduce stress from the public reform system. Tax pay of that pension along with interest does not fall into place until the first assessment at 60 years of age. However, over the years there have been significant exceptions to this arrangement that is worthy of attention. First of all, since July 1, 2014, it has been permitted to account for the expenditure of special savings to the head position loans due to the benefit of home housing for its own use. Second, since the same time, it has been permitted to collect additional fees that have been paid to buy at the first apartment. Third, it is permitted to record up to 12 million. K. in the period from April 1 this year until January 2021. According to tax review, assessment of about 23.5 billion has already been applied. and is quite more than planning. That's a lot of money, no matter how you look at it. So I wondered if the long - term effects of this arrangement have been evaluated. Mr. President. I think it is time to consider how this trend affects people's status when it comes to retirement, especially when the exceptions are deemed complete, how the trend affects government funds, and especially how it will be affected within reform systems. I will use myself to determine if evolution is desirable and if it complies with the original objectives of the private waste money. We must not underestimate the magnitude of the interest shown in caring income and the life conditions of retired people who are growing older and growing older.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u18	A respectable president. Héðinn Unnsteinsson, chairman of the Psychiatry, writes a word for word in the latest mental - health magazine, with permission of presidents: The reason we in the National Institutes of Mental Help, in cooperation with the Pita Organization, the public figure is now twofold. On the one hand, we want to talk about suicide and the sudden loss, pain, and sorrow that victims experience, and we want to discuss the reasons behind and the factors of mental health. The article explains that virtually no support or remedy is available for the group of children who grow up with their parents with a mental disorder. A woman who lost her husband last year puts her words in an article on Ring Road, with the permission of a president: ▪ I am a woman with a tragic experience in seeking out every possible way to help out for a rare man who didn't sleep for weeks, and I don't, a man who had great delusions, a man who couldn't make decisions anymore, a man who couldn't take care of his children anymore, a man who no longer kept up a conversation, a man who had come to a different world than the rest, a man who had never had had a good time but was no longer a shadow of himself. Mental illness is serious, and in memory of the 39 people and the ones that the system has failed, I stand here in screaming silence. A respectable president. Let's get these things right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u19	Mr. President. The pleasant news just reached its height. Department of Social Affairs signed a contract with the U.S.A. that the Ministry will finance the position of a psychologist to one year to promote psychological services to the children of the clients of the United States. Also, Vog's parents or hikers will be presented with a presentation of children's psychological services and those with children aged 8◯18 years will be invited to enroll them in the service of the U.S.A. The goal is to offer each child up to eight interviews with a psychologist. The service will be performed both concomitantly with parents in alcohol and substance therapy as well as when a family is taking a family course in a family ward. In the series of foster children, shown at Station 2, audiences are given insight into a world of children raised by parents and neglect, often with violence. We get to hear from the children themselves how they experience these conditions, how they experience interference, and how they involve child - welfare authorities. We are also given the perspective of parents, foster parents, and staff of child protection. These factors are of utmost interest and importance to social discussions. A respectable president. Today, we know how serious it is for children to live in constant fear and insecurity and to face or witness violence. These lesions are not seen with the eye. We know that there are severe traumas that travel from generation to generation and that can continue to destroy. Education, understanding, and legislation support the ability to prevent serious damage to the future. The current body of elders has recommended a judicial hearing that will assign the Minister of Justice to shape a set-up legal rights to promote information on domestic violence between social authorities, health authorities, educational authorities and the police, and establish a government Cooperative Zone. If that suggestion comes forward, it would also be a step in the right direction. It is now submitted a second time, and has arrived at the General and Education Committee, and before that, in my opinion, it is better that she gets a positive payment at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u20	Mr. President. We need to discuss only Iceland's credibility in climate, whether mankind as a whole can save themselves from self-important hell, and how Iceland can help out more than it already does. In this discussion, as a body of elders, we are not to face political issues. I think we're all allies in maintaining the quality of life on earth. So this discussion is a sort of status check. How are we doing? Where can we do better? Are we missing out on some occasion? Are we going to fuck up, or even lose sight of the problem, e.g. Because we're facing big issues like a P.A. Covid-19? We had a conversation at the General Meeting on climate issues 25 October 2018, 726 days ago, and again on March 21, 2018. Since the first discussion, 17.7% have passed throughout all the time we have up to pay off the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Convention in 2030. By November 4, 2016, we had 14 years, but 29% of our policy had passed. The simplest question, then, is: Looks at the highest. A minister so that the Icelanders have had enough success in fulfilling their commitments to the Paris Convention as compared to the passing of 29% of our time? Has Iceland reached a 29% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions over time? If not, then we have made future projects more difficult with too little and powerless action up to now. Of course, it takes a long time to reverse a complex process, but with each passing moment, the chances of it going down decline. Is there any evidence that this is going to be achieved? There are some suggestions to try to speed up the process, to form in the green covenants proposed by the Plerians and the Continents, but they have not been organized. Then, a work committee has worked to analyze Iceland's position on what happens if we reach the Paris target. My hope is that we will be able to complete that work in the fall and publish the results. But as time goes on, more and more indicate that we need to make fundamental changes in Iceland's economy and in all the world if our goals are to be met. There is no way to create a sustainable society without changing how economic activities work on a global scale. As economic conditions eliminate natural resources from profits and while the requirement for the endless economy is not canceled, there is no way to estimate the success in climate. The exact requirements for climate accounting must be set out in financial terms. In fact, the need to work through the economy on climate issues is so urgent that you wonder whether environmental and economic issues should not be represented by the same minister. President. Now that Covid-19's pandemic has caused massive unemployment throughout the country, the question is, Is it not possible to finance a more efficient green business project to produce more than this, with a direct support to the recovery of wetlands and forestry? The United Nations Environment Agency has described the coming decade as a reward for ecosystems. I think this is a great assignment for them. Among the spectacular efforts that they will hear to build a wall, not a gray wall to separate nations, but a green wall to unite sub Saharan countries against deserts, with considerable forestry across Africa. The land - healing experience in Iceland could help if we were to show enough interest in the world around us. But it is clear that many countries, including Some of the world's largest countries will not be able to ever reduce their emissions. Even where there is a political willingness to name, other economic and social goals seem to be in control. The worst forest fires in history have raged year after year, hurricanes are increasing each year, record droughts are on. We need to set our priorities ahead of smaller work projects that make politics look good but have little significance in practice. So I ask a minister in the end: What could Iceland do to increase the pressure on countries that need support, support measures to cut emissions, and in general contribute to success?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u21	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator is eager to address climate issues here at the General. Before answering my first question, just note that the Paris period asked begins officially until January 1 next year and is, in fact, not the sea. In addition, the agreement between the European Union, Iceland, and Norway reduces every country's recession at 2005, not 2016. Finally, Iceland's share in agreement with the EU is to reduce emissions by 29%, up to the year 2030 and should not be achieved during this terms. In June last June, the government put in a reassigned strategy, which is a very ambitious strategy. It comes with a huge amount of funding so that any action it puts into place can be implemented. Based on the calculations carried out during the preparation of the programme, the measures taken will be in order for Iceland to achieve the global commitments established by the government. I'm sure we should make 35% of our contractions, most likely 403/45% of our contractions. Overall, we, according to the EEA provisional statistics, have reached less than 7% of the contractions compared to 2005. It would be more if we Icelanders had stepped in sooner, but less if the current government hadn't acted as soon as it took place. Like what? A senator would usually take a considerable amount of time from an operation aimed at achieving emissions contractions until its results start to become evident. But we can still see that the indiscriminates to electric cars that have been sustained for a few years have returned to us because we are now in second place in the world regarding the registration of clean electric cars and linking cars. According to the above provisional statistics from the EEA, transport emissions were reduced by 2% between 2018 and 2018, a good indication of successful transport measures. In fact, there was an increase in waste volumes of up to 10% in emissions. So I answer a question number two, on the international issues, we Icelanders have set out ambitious policy on climate issues, including the lack of carbon components in 2040, thus becoming exemplary and promoting ambitions for others. We are involved in working in the Norse field, which contributes to the promotion of Norwegian views and climate - related solutions worldwide. I'd like to mention two projects, especially two examples that have attracted attention, and came by reason. A senator entered one of them. It has to do with land use because we have added emphasis on land management measures and have funded a great deal more in the present government. We've called attention, and I'll come back to this a little bit. The CarbFix project is another example that has given me a lot of attention abroad, and I hope that you will be able to expand in the next few years so that it can even. the new industry in the country to reduce emissions and even other parts of the world. The United Nations High School plays an important role in the exchange of climate - related solutions in foreign fields, especially in the field of geoenergy, land healing, and recovery of land quality. About the last question, where there's a little bit of it. A senator asked about the financing of green, professional projects, we'd better live to see that for Covid-19 there were activities in climate, including recovery of wetlands, land transplants, and forestry, in the full range of plans until 2022. We've been working on it for a while. A senator mentioned in this context and will continue to do so. These include: Plans to double deforestation, double land healing, and ten-fold measures in the recovery of wetlands. This is of importance now because the projects were started when the Covid struck. It matters because we are better prepared. This will create green jobs in the same way that green jobs are produced in energy exchange, new waste solutions, and the economy. These include, for example, a record that has made much progress this year because of the government's actions and financial resources set up there. Then I also remind you that large amounts of donations for innovation and research and the government's plans for promoting green investments introduced by the Prime Minister of the past month's conventions are important steps in the right direction in these matters. In addition, we have under the government's investment campaign for Covid-19, both in 2020 and during the next few years under budget, determined to give even more attention to climate or up to 3 billion dollars. Extra to the jury in the next five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u22	Mr. President. We'll discuss climate issues. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, for raising the problems of climate change, for I certainly believe that increasing greenhouse gas emissions, carbon dioxide and other gases will have an impact on the climate and will contribute to warming. The middle class has repeatedly pointed out that real, important procedures need to be carried out, not just some virtual surgery. Not only have we discussed this, but we have repeatedly proposed a matter of Congress, e.g. proposals for the construction of high-tech dumps and proposals for increased forestry for carbon binding. The government seems to prefer to undergo virtual action, which is mainly defined by the increased climate and the system around these issues growing as never before. The expert system and the office frame around the litigation party are growing every day under that government, which, of course, relieves the professional problems of experts. On the other hand, the government sees opportunities in the climate problem to increase taxation and does not lack ideas about a wide range of new taxes that solve the problem but are actually just another new tax. These taxes are often expressed in the form of nasal taxes, which are more strongly affected by those mentioned among the hands. The Central Party has pointed to solutions beyond the government, led by the left green, preferring to travel the route of taxation and systems, extending the booth as never before. And when it comes to recording these special favorite penal taxes, it is found that government ideas in terms of taxation are not limited. No, Mr. President. We must bring in resources and solutions that cause us to reap real results. Such solutions have been pointed out in the middle of the group, and I will arrive in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u23	A respectable president. How will Iceland achieve credibility through its activities in climate? We should focus primarily on the opportunities of increased treasures while reaching our goals in climate, opportunities that support the building and setting up of well - being society. Iceland's adventures are filled with feelings of envy looking to us from other countries. We can include forestry and the restoration of classical wetlands, and energy exchanges in transport that give us tremendous opportunities should be able to go much faster to them than many other countries with renewable energy sources. That's about cars, fleets, and planes. Energy-related employment is something that we have an endless potential for building up in the country; electrical and fuel exports; data plant; increased food production, all based on renewable energy sources. There we have tremendous opportunities, and we should look to what, for example. Danes are about to double their electricity production by the year 2030, with export of renewable energy sources, electricity and fuel in mind. We are to replace barriers to such occupations to build up in the country. It compares with increasing national energy security. A respectable president. We Icelanders are not to be called upon to achieve our goals in climate. There should be no need for an increase in taxation. We are far better able to get them with increased valuables, and we should view this as an opportunity for increased valuables in carbon - free businesses and major steps in energy exchange.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u24	Mr. President. It's like flying. If we stay the same course, we'll be wise. Our earth will be uninhabitable. Greenhouse gas emissions are dangerous, to be said in a mild way, to which the world's richest nations, 10% of the world's inhabited earth, are responsible. The consequences of this action do not cause so much suffering on all, the world's poorest nations. Thus, the battle against disaster will not be left to the battle of global inequities. Thus, a green uniformism in which radicality, practicality, and solidarity go hand in hand is the strongest antidote against both of these human capitals. Energy emissions in Iceland are, of course, fragments of global emissions, but small countries can exert a powerful influence, such as the examples, taking initiatives, setting a good example, and fighting for international change. In order for Iceland to become the role model of other countries on climate issues, much larger steps have been taken than has been proclaimed, have set more ambitious goals and words, and must follow more targeted measures. Mr. President. We're in the United States for action. We have set an aggressive economic goal on a green-proven revolution in which Iceland's future is seen in innovation, culture, investment, and implementation, all under the sign of meeting the minimum Paris Treaty. We want to review immediately the climate action programme so that at least 55% of the greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by 2030 and the target will be legalized. We also suggest that independence and maintenance activities of the climate Council and that climate management will be promoted much more by a central Ministry Office, which has financial resources and human resources to do the necessary diagnostic work, coordination and subsequent follow-up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These points and many others in our fine work, the responsible way - from employment crisis to the green future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u25	The President reminds me of why. For a senator, it is also responsible to meet a two - minute deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u26	V.E.G. President. I was looking at the website of the farm newspaper, one or more times, and saw that the most read article in this magazine is a series of mountaintops on the one side of the opportunity for the production of hammers in Iceland and then for the development of algae. I've proposed a synopsis proposal for rejuvenating in Iceland, but it's a plant that could give us a chance to reduce carbon emissions. I will also submit a synopsis proposal for algae in the days ahead. Pálmi Einarsson Einarsson and his wife, Oddný Anna Björnsdóttir, have grown hammers in experimenting on the ground of Götavík, Beruðður for some time. It's been a success. In an interview at Pálmi, it gives Icelanders an opportunity to become more sustainable about the diversity of industry materials, such as building materials, textil, paper, plastic, fuel, food, and supplements and other things. Mr. President. Let's get back to the algae. The following article will include the series "How Would You Answer? " until the seams are 400 times more active than trees in binding to carbon dioxide and from the algae, biofuels and proteins that grew to the entire inhabited earth can be produced. The hatchlings are primary manufacturers, but they produce at least one of the most common products in the world. 50 percent of the oxygen we draw, even up to 90%, says the Spanish newspaper 70%. Fates are also the basis for all the food chain of the ocean, but they often contain about 10 to 100 times as much vitamins as fruits and vegetables and grow ten times faster than land plants. I would be interested in hearing the highest opinions. A minister and his vision of whether or not we could take advantage of opportunities for further growth and use of energy plants such as hammers and quills, both in the sea and in the country. Don't Ministers agree with me that there's a big opportunity to increase national self-sustaining and significantly reduce carbon emissions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u27	Mr. President. I'm celebrating this discussion on climate. I believe Iceland has a lot of opportunity to take action against climate change. We have drive and vision to take green and large steps. But there is work to do. The major share of Iceland's annual total emissions comes from the most advanced wetlands and ill-tourned land. Estimated figures are 18 million tons of total 23 million tons or about 80%. We must have significant and efficient strategies to reduce this emissions. Farmers or organizations on their side need to be actively involved in the monitoring of the most advanced land, deforestation and culture of alien species in their area. Landowners who have a land defined as a water supply or a poor land, would have to account for land use on their land and plan how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Thereafter, governments need to give landowners their support and motivation for these actions. Among the correct ways to go here is to give e.g. Carnivorous benefits of becoming carbon farmers. Volunteer and give to farmers who would wish for support to change their land use in order to create new and other valuables. Encourage innovation and maim the pioneers in agriculture and land use. New motivations and coincidences to speed up these necessary green steps. If governments thus make their way, landowners and farmers will find the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u28	A respectable president. We're here to discuss environmental issues. It has to be said just as it is that we Icelanders are environmentally free. It is also so intense that we do not even see the small pieces that accumulate here in our own belly button because of prosperity and consumption. We sell pure energy in exchange for the wastes that burn coal, nuclear energy, oil, but we boast at the same time because we have really good issues. A covenant is a word in writing, and we can write and say anything. The fact is, though, that we need to take up our sleeves and start doing something about us. A large part of the earth is packed. Microplastics are found to such an extent that it is actually frightening, and what may be even more terrifying is that ice cream and glaciers are found. Whole plastic rivers stream to the oceans of Asia and other places, and it's terrible that we are in that situation. We make and cultivate forests, but unfortunately, the fact is that we do not have to escape from deforestation and also from forest fires that are everywhere, the forest is burning all over the earth. The most amazing thing in all of this is that we haven't figured out yet that we have to put our industrial cows away so that we don't lose all our forests in the fire.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u29	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking you for this discussion because we don't discuss climate issues enough in this room, and maybe that's why these matters are often a bit complicated. I took it at the top of my sentence. Minister to mention, for example. In 2021, 2005, 2016 as the three different opening years of the conflict against climate change. This is how the seminars are everywhere, it's complicated, it's too complicated, it needs to be clearer. Something else I'd cut at the highest. Minister was saying that it would seem that Iceland will achieve the commitments it has made to the United Nations and the European Union to the climate agreement. You're absolutely right. But these commitments are too small. The agreement on Paris had to be made every five years to increase the commitment. The fifth year from the Paris Convention is this year, allowing 40% of the government's target. Minister is pleased that the Kingdom will reach, is just out - of - date. And here we are in the position that it is out of date because of physics, not some political issue where we compromise, because we don't ask physics for compromise. The government has also produced ambitious climate policies, says the Minister. It would now be good to be able to measure it by any person. I'd like to mention my bill of increasing the maintenance of a climatic committee that I recommended yesterday, which is a groundwork for assessing the credibility of government programmes. There is no need to be when four months after the contribution of the spring climate programme was suddenly canceled, one of the measures involved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] 28,000 tons of carbon dioxide spreading into the air. The operation is pressed aside. We have a lot to do, but we also have everything to work. [[The president calls.]] Achieving disaster is the way forward to improve society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u30	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u31	Mr. President. I'm here to celebrate a special discussion on climate and think that's what I'm talking about. The prime committee should place special discussions on climate issues on the Council program in a regular way because of the importance of climate now and in the immediate future. You see, despite the dramatic consequences of a global pandemic, climate changes are even bigger and more extensive tasks that will change not only our lives and way of life but also those of the generations that follow us. Are we living up to Iceland's commitments when it comes to the Paris Convention? is the big question we are dealing with in this discussion. To answer that big question, we need to be on guard against the use of numbers and spinning when it comes to speech and climate. The results of the latest national report on greenhouse gas emissions published by the EEA show that emissions of Iceland from 1990 to 1994 on greenhouse gases have increased by 30%. This increase does not take in emissions from international and international races. That's interesting in view of the highest. Environmental Ministers say that greenhouse gas emissions have increased in 2017 to 2018. Besides, these figures don't take the liberty of flying and sailing. There are no new numbers, but it'll be interesting to see them. This large increase since 1990 is mainly due to an increase in metal production in Iceland, but there is no basis for binding measures at industrial, industrial, and air transport. That's too bad, so we need to change. It is simply not true, Mr. President, held on the part of the government, that Iceland is planning to reduce emissions far beyond commitment. A reduction of 29% was the lowest reference of Iceland's negotiations with the EU, and it was just not until the EU contract reached a 40% target, to the maximum. Ministers constantly talk about, became reality, first then. These matters need to be made clear and accurate. And to reevaluate the objectives now that the EU has updated its targets to 60%. Where's Iceland gonna be then? V.E.G. President. Last night, he said what he said. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for both of us's bill on changing standards when it comes to climate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] My time is running out, but I still want to point to that bill because our goals are being updated. [[The president calls.]] There's ambition. That is our future assignment and is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u32	The president reminds us that the session session will be two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u33	President. Iceland can live up to its commitments because of Kyoto, not because it reached goals, but because other nations did it for us. We made a deal with the EU to get to be with them in the Kyoto Protocol. And to make it clear; we have not kept our commitment; others have done so for us. Another period of commitment lies ahead, this time teaching Paris. It is predictable that we will not be able to live up to our commitments, at least Once a while. In time, we may be able to put on higher gear. I've heard a lot of complaints about these commitments; that we don't have to be involved, we have so much cleaner energy, it's a lot of environmentally friendly to be involved with contaminated industry in Iceland because it would pollute much more elsewhere. The fact is, however, that pollution costs its price. I challenge anyone to argue with another. The commitments that the international community has made focus on costing them pollution and making sure that those who pollute the city. That's what the carbon bill is for. Some feel that it is far too high and minimize the cost of pollution, which is difficult to see. In this discussion, there are two things I would like to draw attention to, on the other hand, the importance of polluting. To do so, we need to consider the cost of things that have not already been worthy, since they are due days of debt. We need that price tag. We need to look at the economy and society from a bigger perspective than what a raw capitalist offers. We cannot offer future generations the pollution that we hid and refused to deal with. However, the low - quality vision of pollution in other parts of Iceland supports this view. We could use our energy and make a sustainable industry more competitive, get the innovation here in environmental solutions, which would otherwise be the driving of contaminated energy elsewhere in the world. At worst, nothing will make a better future, but it is more likely to come true if it were our course.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u34	Mr. President. We're not going to reach climate targets, say why. Senators, and it's just as well that we get real reasons for that. But I'm just going to talk about the fulfillment of the Paris meeting, which is not a linear process, but it's a slow blow in a huge effort and complex game of players. It is also an interaction between policy and legal environment that takes time. It is also a conjunction to identify a project and move the players. This is not shaken out of memory, so it is logical that the speed will be increased. I want to remind you of the players in this whole thing. Who are they? It is so absurd to always talk about the Kingdom, as if it were the chief act of the state. Of course, the principal person is the whole community; the State, societies, business, organization, and individuals. It is everyone's responsibility to achieve this defined goal. It'll take us nine years from now on to get it. To call our goals out - of - date is just a cliché. Low limits are not out - of - date, so let's watch this realistic. [[Up front.]] If we continue the budgeted and defined measures, and if this is calculated, we will see what we have done in the Supreme Work Programme. Minister, we're going to achieve a 3503-45 percent target of emissions. The energy exchanges weigh on weight, aims are developed, management programmes are fully funded and funding is increased, and incentives have been developed. So I'd like to hear the argument from those who say we're not going to get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u35	Mr. President. We need to look for steps that will be successful, and in a few years we could prevent us from paying huge fines on the board of Paris. So I can agree with that. A senator and an advisor, a Smári Mccarthyr, when he says time is up. In these matters, time is fast. Time passes, and unfortunately, the result is little under the control of left greens. They struggle to listen to practical suggestions that could prevent fines due to our commitment to climate, as greenhouse gas emissions in our roads are increasing, as we have clearly seen here. I have provided suggestions for increased forestry to the level of carbon binding. If only 2% of the country had a greener forest, we'd have had all our emissions tied up. There's plenty of waste in this country to make money. Instead, everything goes on to wait for a bear to take care of the land's wastelands. Although they are beautiful and serve many purposes, they are not the best ones to bind carbon, which bind much less than more powerful trees. What about the waste? What do the left green want to do with the garbage? Does it grow old or send it abroad? This is the reality on their watch. If the garbage is exported, it will certainly disappear from our eyes, and the problem will disappear. And then we should feel better, right? The non-fiction waste here is sent out where it is burned. It is also responsible for high emissions of salts, a gas that is 23 times more dangerous as greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. That is why I have repeatedly proposed the construction of high - tech dumps. Such infusions are much environmental, but they were only a few years ago. [[The president calls.]] In fact, waste is a large part of fuel, producing most parts of oil and other burning materials. [[The president calls.]] I have made such a suggestion to three councilmen in a row, but the government prefers to strip the garbage or remove it out of our sight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u36	A respectable president. We will discuss one of the major issues of the day. The fines we pay primarily affect our environment on our planet. This is a huge issue, and we need to respond effectively. I think we're doing it. We need to reduce emissions, and we need to bind carbon. But I'm going to talk about another thing that is that we also need to prepare for the changes that are inevitable. Clearly, there are things that are changing and will change despite our achieving the goals we have set for ourselves. in the Paris Convention. The Arctic ice has never felt less. In just a few years, the ice has decreased over an area of France, Spain, Germany, Poland, and Italy combined. This is happening north of us. You see, we are a northern kingdom, and this is very important to us. What do we know about the future fishing? What do we know about the impact this will have on the sea, the food box on which we have built our whole body? This is the big thing we have to deal with, and I believe we're doing a lot of good. No doubt we could do better. Of course, it's the cooperation of the state, but it's also the rurals, and it's a pleasure to see that the job life has actually turned on a light of the importance of being self-sustained and looking to the economy. Despite the threat of climate crisis, however, there is good reason to be optimistic about the future. There is no need for apocalyptic prophecy. You see, we use science and knowledge. We've never known as much about what we know today. We need to listen, and we are listening.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u37	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for taking the initiative in this discussion here today. Although the government boasts of that, like the Supreme Court. A minister did earlier that she was doing better, which is truly true, yet the situation is that it is not enough - by no means. In 2020, we have seen how fast changes can be made. Earlier this year, we saw a shrinking of greenhouse gas emissions. Sadly, this was only temporary, but it shows that it can be done. Today, a number of countries have developed a new opportunity to put force in climate action related to Covid, and the EU's Commission has set a target of about 60% of greenhouse gas mitigation. At the same time, Iceland is heading for 35% reduction, which is actually only 9% in total emissions plus land use and ETS. V.E.G. A minister mentioned a 29% straggler in his speech, which is by no means sufficient to reach the 2040 non-carbons. The contraction must reach at least 50% if we are going to reach that goal. And we must reach that goal. Mr. President. We can take much faster and larger steps. There are many things we have to do, but first and last, we need to reduce emissions. We also need to promote the management of climates, and I would like to enter the highest level. Ministers according to Capacent's observations, whether the Ministry's staff have increased their number in the climate office. We too need to put on increased motivation for change. I'm asking the highest. Once again, whether he believes that this is the opportunity to raise the carbon and increase the import costs of fuel and diesel cars. Then I ask Telvur. Isn't a minister too late to present a bill on a non-carbon law, next year in January? It would have been better to make that offer this fall, i.e. if it's a real will for the government to finish the case at this council? Let's be ambitious, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] And there the government is to pull the wagon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u38	Mr. President. Restored in advanced swamps is a project that plays a major role in government traffic to reduce carbon emissions. Such a project requires that the available information be reliable in order to be well spent and successful. I was recently traveling for the South, and I visited, even though I did not. Farmers in the Netherlands. The topic of discussion included Agricultural status, especially bovine farming, is now under attack. The average country has a crop that is mainly used for the production of expensive food oil, but oil may be used to increase as biofuels. The farmers had strong views on the lice. The experience of people in the Middleland and in the southern coasts of Iceland from their land - healing skills in the lice is generally good. The lumin may, e.g. useful in cultivating land for plants such as hammers and apples, which are plants that could help us reduce the emissions of carbon. It would be interesting to know what a future minister's vision of the use of lavender for land healing would be like. To the farmers, I am impressed that the results of their recovery are thought to be quite overrated by the mires. Some claim that as many as 72% of our total carbon dioxide emissions are due to land development while others have proved otherwise. In response to the former environmental minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, at the 145th legislature for emissions, says the president's permission: Since emissions from the most advanced country in Iceland can continue to change, it is not easy to do so. It is preferable to improve measures and assessments of the previously mentioned emissions so that most of them are obtained as well as from the results of possible measures in future wetland recovery. The question is, chief. Minister: Is the information we now rely on reliable information?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u39	Mr. President. One of the characteristics of liberal society is freedom of movement, individual or business. The role of the government is now to create a setting where freedom and diversity benefit the entire community, with the great effort to create a range of activities that will enable them to be a more effective participant in the battle against climate change. Governments need to take part in promoting green incentives, ensuring that emissions are in accordance with strict requirements and are simply creating an environment which enables companies to take an environmental point into the production and supply of goods and services. The best way to reduce pollution is to make sure that those making it pay the cost. Such green catalyses, however, must not become overly burdensome; they must be used for countermotive measures, e.g. Through a climate fund, which companies could take to, and on the other hand, to reduce other public fees. It is also important that governments and professional life come together to promote a general sense of awareness. New and challenging solutions require new solutions. These solutions are far more likely to develop in cooperation with government and employment, where innovation and products are far more beneficial than only commands and bans. That's what we know. Sports, competition, and innovation are the schemes that are to exist in every business. Thus, we have the greatest chance of protecting our natural world and protecting our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u40	A respectable president. We'll discuss climate issues and thank Smári Mccarthyr for this discussion. We are to set a good example for our children. They demand that we take on the climate because they are the future, but now we are polluting. This has been shown in the discussion that to reduce pollution, new taxes are to be put on various products and services. But we should concentrate on paying taxes on those most of them. Those who pay are the ones who have the best. If we automatically place taxes on everyone, it will be worst for those who are least and, in fact, the weirdest of these things, only over our heads cannot be polluted because they have no money to buy one thing or anything at the government's command. To send it to them, of course, is ridiculous. We are told that unless we stand by the covenant, there is a need for fines to be paid. What do you think the government will do about it? Yes, she's just selling goodbyes, more quotas, more pure salutations to those who're contaminated and dirty out there. It's probably her solution because it's a solution she's made in the past. We're supposed to improve greenhouses. In this context, it is a bit strange to wonder about an Icelandic motif who was taking seeds of Icelandic tails in an effort to keep up with the Icelandic tail, complained that it was coming all the way to a closed door. [[The president calls.]] What does this say about us?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u41	President. The challenge is large and the present situation is that there have been actions that will achieve only half the results we will achieve by 2030. The other half of the operations are still under operation, that is the government's operation plan, that is, prior to the year 2030. The brain half is yet to be molded. That's a little interesting. This discussion has given rise to ideas that are very positive. We need a positive attitude toward the world's problem that the fact is that we see a changed situation. The response to changing circumstances will cost a tremendous amount, both social and economic. Of course, it would be best not to have counter measures. The prospects, however, are so serious that something else was irresponsible. The data's in front of us. The projections are developing all over the world. What has been foretold in recent years and decades is developing. This should serve as a warning to us. Without question, we need to take a regular discussion of our commitments, whether it is necessary to do so. But the consequences of climate change are the problem we always need to keep in mind, meeting commitments is minimal. Still, if we reach that commitment, we will face certain consequences in the models we make, so we expect that even if we take counter measures, we will have to face the changed circumstances there. That's the problem we're facing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u42	V.E.G. President. I am thrilled to see how much has been accomplished in this climate discussion. I'm happy for the ideas that come out, and I'm happy for the board, and it's a part, but I think that's where I can sharpen, I'll join in. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson with that. But I have to make comments to the false reports that have been presented here. Let's talk straight and clear, let's say why. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylffjordsdóttir. The release was summed up between 2018 and 2019 according to the EEA provisional assessments, the senator has old numbers and carries them on board. Iceland did not request a 29% recession. It is the induction of common EU rules. Thus France is involved in reducing 37%, Poland 7%, and Iceland by 29%. Iceland didn't make a deal downstairs. Senator. Yet Iceland has made a 40% goal and has shown that we really are going to achieve it. It has been called for real action and is well recommended. The members of other political parties have offered suggestions, so I rejoice. However, many of those proposals are exactly what the government has already proposed. I'll mention, for example, the heat of energy exchanges that are for the environment, the good for each and as well as the good for commercializing with abroad, where there are motivations, the talking of motivations. There is a revolution in natural solutions, double forestry, double agriculture, tenfold recovery in wetlands, and some are catalysts. The induction of the circuit economy, that's what it's all about. Climate research, climate innovation, there's a lot of motivation. Green investments recently introduced to attack will be catalysts. We work with farmers with motivations for reducing emissions and binding carbons, which are catalysts and measures. However, I agree with what has been presented here in our discussion that we need to set military and ambitious goals and work at the Ministry to prepare it. It enables all of us to gather together and agree that we need to do better. And that is what I take primarily from this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u43	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in financial support law to a less successful person for a pandemic crown virus, No. 38/2020. The bill suggests the use of so - called lockback grants. Early this year, the provisions were set up to meet the loss of less income providers, who were closed or suspended in March, April, and May, based on ads of health ministers on restrictions at meetings for epidemics. The bill suggests that operators who are assigned to share the same limitations from September 18, 2020, can apply for a secure power from a government fund. The requirements for maintenance according to the bill are basically comparable to those of the previous close-up strategists, although with minor changes now suggested that the results also be determined into the future. So it is on the bill, considering that the budget will take over to non-employers who carry unlimited tax obligations in this country. As previously indicated, resources are available to those who have at least been exposed to them. 75% of revenues and the bill are based on income loss during the closing period, compared to the next equally long period before closing. It is forward that the sample may not apply only to business operators who operate at a level beyond their limit of income, which is in the bill of 350,000. per month. It is then assumed that the employer has been on the pay of public fees over the last year and that he has submitted tax returns, local pay, return accounts, annual bills and information about the real owners this year. Finally, he may not have been taken to pieces or his nests for bankruptcy. As previously assumed, the resources reach only the operators who are closing or stopping certain activities. In this regard advertising has been used. However, the biggest change with the bill is important. It's about the height of the scholarships. During spring, the height of money was set to a maximum that could not exceed 2.4 billion. K. to each operator before the closing period from March 24 to May 4, and 1.2 million. K. before the closing period between May 4 and May 25. Now it is suggested that they be much higher than before certain closing concentrations. As in the past, the amount of money given will be as high as the cost of management during the period closed, but it cannot exceed 600,000. each carer's payer for each total of 30 days' closure, and relatively lower than the shorter period. It is determined that total cost does not exceed 600,000 dollars. on each payer, and that limits the amount of money. This increase in funding levels makes it impossible to be confident that the EEA laws on minor assistance are sufficient, but according to them, there are only 32 million individual sources. K. over a two-year period. To make this clear, we are here discussing that in spring, we had a peak of 2.4 million for each operator of the previous period and 1.2 million for the second period. There is no such thing as this to be distributed. Rather, the sum is at a maximum of 600,000. and then many of the employees who have worked for the company. I hope this is clear, but the bill assumes that maximum strength can only go to 120 million. K. In terms of EU State Support, we've actually been outside them because we've been working on a special rule of minor assistance. But since we're setting up the budget that counts there, we need to report it. As mentioned in the bill, the support contained in the grants is expected to match the temporary state support framework for the economy, which went into effect in March 2020 in the EEA region. Finally, I'm going to give you an important adjustment proposal that covers all the post-finals, which is not merely the period discussed here. It is as if the tax is allowed to be taken into account for granting grants received from the application deadline, which are in the bill three months, but there has been some evidence that candidates have not been able to submit their application at the correct time. I think it's fair that we take the initiative in the law and write it out that such applications are allowed to be taken over, as all other conditions of the selection are met. Finally, as there is uncertainty about the progress of the epidemic, it is unclear whether further meeting boundaries are needed than when it has been announced, to suggest that the continuation of maintenance grants has been extended to 2021. In particular, since this case was submitted to the Council, these cases have been taken into consideration with an extension of the closure of a particular operation. I think it has to be undisputed here at the council that a slightly more permanent frame of law is the right to be established than we should, so that we should follow along and take limited periods each, to cover it. I think that's a great improvement, and I'm gonna make more sense of it, but it's okay with this stuff. A respectable president. I believe that with this bill approved, the operator's loss of income would be met because of government decisions on the limitations of our meetings for today's epidemic. These sponsors are aimed at reducing the likelihood of problems with certain companies because of these decisions. I have always felt that, and I made it very clear here in the spring months, that it is reasonable that we give such strength to those who accept the burdens of the end, of course, to a large extent to the general community. With these words, I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u44	A respectable president. I'm gonna recommend a bill to legalize the levels of income. The bill is part of the government's efforts to reduce the damage caused by the pandemic crown virus and create a powerful resistance afterward. This suggests that individuals and small business lawyers who have suffered significant loss of income may gain strength from a government fund in order to meet the cost of operating. It's a concierge. to meet the problems of people who work in cultural and artistic sectors or to serve that sector, but, of course, there are also many other parties, to form parties in tourism, such as travel guides. The choice simply extends to all those who qualify. Here, these groups are just referred to as judging for some large groups that we know are likely to take advantage of. The bill suggests that there is a requirement for granting the applicant at least a 50% drop in income between April 1 and September 30, compared to the same period of 2019 and the loss of income will be attributed to the pandemic of Korean virus or government measures to cope with the outbreak. I'm going to let me mention this here that I feel that I have an opinion in view of how the preventative measures have developed that the council should consider extending this period something, e.g. to add one month. I'd appreciate that. But the point is that we are watching a period of time that has passed. This is because we need some business period to compare income with older times, so we are not looking into the future. It may again mean that at some later point, as necessary, we may come back to bring a plan of such a nature. I have mentioned the specific income loss criteria, i.e. 50 percent of the payload. It is also suggested that candidates meet the same or similar conditions as those who are able to obtain a close-up strength. This is true of tax obligations in Iceland, government legislation and tax records and not to have been taken into bankruptcy, etc. Then candidates must have at least received at least one application. One million. K. in the year 2019 C.E., and the work needs to be started by April 1, 2020. The bioequivalence value of the start date between April 1, 2020 and October 1, 2020 is suggested but may still reach a maximum of 400,000. for each rank value per month during the period. For monotonous people, the maximum concentration can be 2.4 billion. K., and for a company with three employees at a maximum of 7.2 million. K. Before arriving at the position of those who first give up their income by tax returns, I'm going to mention that if they started working on April 1, but income was limited in the previous year, the bill has responded to these conditions. But here's a bit of a special opinion, i.e. that when we look at the loss of 50 percent of our income, we need some kind of reference period, like I've been tracking. Many people who work part - time with a travel guide may also be stage art or such, not remuneration each month or pay a salary, but collect money over the year, and then make up the whole year on tax returns. This may lead to difficulties in the reference period in these last months to be used as a comparison for the same month in the previous year. In that case, the bill meets the operator in such a way that those with little or no cost during this period, between April and October 2020, are authorized to set the cost of budgeting for the same period of 2019. It is now thought that if the employer, the person, did not calculate his fee each month in 2019, but for that year also gave his total pay on tax returns, that would be proportioned. As for close-up grants, both the application and decision-making procedure are proposed to be electronic and to be hidden from the tax. In dealing with the tax during the past few days, it has been observed that after the bill was submitted to the General Assembly, they will be able to accept applications as soon as the case is resolved by the General Assembly. There is evidence that everything should be ready within a few days. I'm not gonna tell you if it's gonna be soon next week or next week, but preparation has begun to take effect. We've decided to suggest on this bill that the decisions made by the IRS are admissible to the head tax committee. Finally, the support included in the bill will be in line with the EEA Regulation for minor assistance. A respectable president. Quantum concentrations are part of a major arrangement that the government has taken because of the economic impact of the chorionic virus epidemic. With the approval of the bill, it would be a great deal to meet the one and the smaller operators who have suffered a significant loss of income from the epidemic and for several reasons have not fully or possibly not been able to take advantage of any other available resources. But it is very difficult to evaluate the scope of this matter, it must be said exactly as it is. There is a very large uncertainty about how much the operators will take full advantage of this resources so that it can reach three employees throughout the period, thus increasing to 7.2 million, each of the total number of companies. But to my nose, and I'm just going to say that it's just for judgment, that the cost, on a certain basis, can go up to over 14 billion. Still, I'm going to allow myself to doubt that there will be a conclusion. This may be the result, but I have some doubts that so many companies will use the resources in a way that there are three employees underneath. I think it will be very common for one or two employees to be involved, and in that sense, they are likely to be, in my opinion, that the total value under this matter will be somewhat lower. However, there is considerable uncertainty and need to be seen. In this context, I think maybe it's more important to us to keep our hope that this period will last. That's kind of the main thing. Hopefully we will succeed by reaching out to most people, that we have managed to adjust the conditions to reach our goal here. I think there is good reason to mention at the end of my speech that when we stood here in the spring months and wanted to step into the situation that then faced us, we put much more emphasis on building a bridge over a period that we hoped would become as strong as possible. Most of our resources gave evidence that we were hoping that, in late hours or autumn, I would not talk about in winter, that outside circumstances would have improved considerably. With that view, it was only natural to focus more on flexibility, delay of government fees, and also give financial costs. We opened credit options that were very useful, allowing the making of special savings for individuals, etc. But at that point it was not time to speak for the bones to the extent that we feel it is right to do so now and that is what we are doing because the nature of this situation is changing. As the situation continues, the greater the need for direct support is in the way that is being measured here. I'm finally going to find out that this bill is part of a three-way round that we're in right now. We, the government, first bring the closing power to those who have been shut down. Here we have a cut-off value to reduce the loss of income, 50% or more in the past few months, and in the individual business or small business modules, up to three employees. A third factor that is now under way is the matter of larger business modules that have also been exposed to heavy loads because of the crowning virus epidemic, and we feel the need for support for it and for the months ahead. There are many matters of opinion that we need to consider. I'll have to mention one thing right at the end. It's about companies that may have just more than three employees, therefore, do not fall directly under this case, nor have they had to close and therefore not fall into the closed-out bill, but we watch building the third piece I was tracking. The people I'm particularly thinking about in this regard are those who have suffered some of the limitations or the distressing treatments that have had a significant impact on the business. They have not been shut down and therefore do not fall below the closing power. These people have a much larger business than the one we're talking about here, they've had to take a lot of action, e.g. because of the many restrictions inside, say restaurants and other such places. We need to keep working out how we will meet them. Here's what I'm going to mention and put as a lunch into the panel discussion with these two cases, I'll pass on it. We look at these operators building a third resort, although I don't want to rule out the methodology that, for example, is out of the question. This might be considered. They've anyway so far, and they're in this bill, completely bound to the very person who's made to close and may be complicated by taking it into consideration. But there is indeed a delicate surface on these issues that we need to cover, i.e. The position of the non-closed enterprises is very weak, but they can hardly be open. These are the companies I'm specifically referring to. Then I'm not just saying that because the customers don't come, neither do they because the nature of the disease prevention measures limits their ability to maintain normal functioning. Surely we want to look to the same problem. But with this bill, we're meeting a soloist and a smaller operator. I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u45	A respectable president. I want to thank you in many ways. The secretary of finance for this bill because there has been a requirement to reach out to those who have suffered a massive loss of income due to Covid. I hope it reaches as many people as possible. But I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance whether he realizes how many people are going to be outside and will not be helped, as the situation is today, in these companies and employers. It's like that. Talk about 1 million. Let's just think about a person who's got 4.999.99.99.9 bucks. The second has 5,500,001K. He's not getting anything. This could be a hell of a crown. I ask: Is it not possible to implement this in any other way so that there is not a completely clear, huge gap between getting into the system and not releasing it, so that more money, perhaps 75% or something, can only be cut proportionate? We realize that if we take this number only, half a million, and half of it, we're not talking about exactly 40,000 bucks. per month. There may not be many people in this situation in itself, you don't know. But I ask, isn't it a little cruel that the crown has so much?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u46	A respectable president. I'm not quite sure I understood the question, but first, we have a minimum choice as a prerequisite for getting the options. We're looking at individuals and less operators who have up to three employees. That's the group we're looking at. Then we demand that a person be able to show up for some business expenses, but there is a limit to the amount of strength available to each employee involved. However, if the cost of operating has been higher than that of the bill, it would seem that they met the requirements of receiving strength. Yet, it will be limited to the maximum amount of money. On the other hand, I think that's the right thing to do. A senator, if I've correctly understood that we can have an enormous perimeter effect on the income charge. Here we aim 50%, and you can, for example. Ask: What about the fate of someone who has lost 45% of his income? He's not getting anything. And that's true, but we've actually gone a bit lower than that, i.e. to 50%. In many other options, we have been asking for 75% of a income drop. In that sense, therefore, this is an even more open resource than some others. Of course, the peripheral effects are extreme.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u47	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. I have to say, I'm more worried about dictators than about three companies with maybe three employees because an artist or one who works alone can land between them. I think it's a bit steep because people are on some level, either they get to be inside the system or nothing in the system. I think it's a little strange. There must be some way to soften this. Also, there is a question of individuals who have some income and may not enter this system but who need it. Would it not have been possible to disseminate the amount of money they had withdrawn from, but they would get all the way so that they weren't just outside the system, left behind, just because they may have dropped out, and that's because of some pennies?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u48	A respectable president. In itself, I have nothing to say but that all these conditions can be viewed and thought back and forth. We have, in my opinion, tried to wear a rather broad hug here than the other. As the bill's impact assessment shows, we can calculate to 14.5 billion. Of course, there are huge numbers in all aspects. We're starting to talk about loans, possibly with a state responsibility through the financial system that we were doing in spring and went as fine as possible, and from talking about paying some of the pay money but against the conditions that a hired man is not allowed to come to work. We have also been participating in an accounting period or, in other words, at the expense of employees'resignation. These are all resources that describe a more serious situation but are very much willing to support employees and try to keep the business alive. It is almost becoming a physical change in the government's resources, as we now play a solution that may go up to another dozen billion, where we say, "It's time to just pay the right strength because of a loss of income. " This is an overwhelming step that illustrates the severity of the problem we face. Whether the conditions were precisely set, I can certainly discuss, and I hope that as soon as the situation is done quickly here at the council, there will be time for us to listen to the exact viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u49	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to fix a medical device. The current medical legislation is from 2001 and has not changed significantly since that time, despite the rapid development of technology. Medical devices vary from patches and contact lenses to sophisticated hospital equipment. The bill is written at the Ministry of Health and includes the introduction of three regulations. First of all, the Council and Council Regulation 2017/745 of April 5, 2017, on the change of Directive 2001/83/EC, Regulation No. 178/2002 and Regulation No. 1223/2009 and the deletion of Council Directives 90/385/EECE and 93/42/EECE with the modification and supplementation resulting from the Protocol 1 to the EEA Convention and the decision of the joint EEA Committee. Second, the Council and Council Regulation 2017/746 of the 2017/746 from April 5, 2017 on the diagnostic devices for the diagnosis of the bottle and the deletion of the Directive 98/79/EC and the Commission's decision 2010/227/ESB with the changes and supplementation resulting from the Protocol 1 to the EEA Convention and the decision of the joint EEA committee. Third, the Council and Council 2020/561 of 23 April 2020 introduces a change in Regulation 2017/745 to medical devices. A respectable president. The objective of the bill is to ensure the quality and safety of the medical equipment with public safety and to ensure that production, maintenance and use of medical equipment is in accordance with the best knowledge at any given time. The agreed bill would make a new global law for medical equipment. The bill is very rich and includes improved and clearer medical instruments and better monitoring in this important language class. With the bill, the European Commission is introduced but at the same time the Agency's surveillance and authority sources are explained and established. The European Regulations are aimed at harmonising legislation in the European Economic Area and ensuring compliance with the rules of therapeutic practice. As a consequence of the EEA partnership, the regulations to be taken up in the EEA contract should be taken up. There is not much room to deviate from the requirements of the European Orders, and this is primarily due to the implementation of responsibilities and requirements on the basis of the regulations of the Regulation. However, there is room for European rules to set specific rules or to implement the individual regulations of the Regulation. The bill therefore contains the key principles of the Regulation, together with specialive regulations, which form a new global law for medical equipment. A respectable president. In view of experience and learning from the value of European directives, increasing the requirements and quality and safety of medical equipment are set up in the bill. The European rules intended to introduce the principles of the rules are extended. The bill makes clear that it takes care not only of medical equipment but also of instruments that do not have medical purpose. The bill now presents a device without intended medical purposes that have specific characteristics as medical tools but are not marketed as such. These include contact lenses and filling materials for the injection into the face. Increased requirements for therapeutic equipment are set for monitoring and follow-up with commercial therapeutic equipment. Changes in the application procedure for clinical trials and increased requirements for clinical studies including data quality and access to data are also conducted. There is an increased demand for advising procedure for the informed person. There is some change from the existing rules and is intended to improve the quality of the procedure. The European Data Bank on Medicine is more important in the Regulation to introduce, but it plays a key role in meeting the objectives of this legislation. A specific authentication system has been developed in this context in order to ensure the traceability of the medical device provided by the manufacturer. It's even has been used to prevent counterfeit devices, as well as to ensure the traceability of an device and to ensure rapid and reliable internalization of damaged devices. The manufacturer is obliged to develop a so-called implant card with implantable tools. The implant card is provided with a health care facility responsible to provide the patient with the card. Detailed information should be available to the patient, such as information provided by means of a reliable device, warnings, information on the shelf life, follow-up, etc. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, through the bill the European Commission's directives on medicinal products and, in particular, the provision of requirements and responsibilities which are directly supported by the Regulation. However, the rules measure and allow the implementation of specific points. This has to do with language requirements, e.g. the instructions for use and the label of the medical equipment, and the control and authority of the organisation. The Agency is a competent authority in accordance with the regulations and in this way supervises the implementation of the regulations and the bill. The European rules intended for the introduction of this bill mask national legislation to determine whether recycling of single-use medical equipment is permitted, but the bill suggests that the Minister sets up a Regulation on recycling and further use of disposable instruments. The European Regulations do not prevent increased medical requirements provided they comply with the Regulation. The bill therefore contains regulations that are not foreshadowed in the Regulation but that are supported by current legislation and are needed to achieve the objectives of the bill on the quality and safety of medical equipment, with the public's safety guide. These are directives aimed at ensuring that production, maintenance and use of medical equipment are in accordance with the best knowledge at any given time. The bill stipulates the responsibility of the owner of a medical tool to ensure that the user will receive instruction and training for the right and safe use of instruments and that the user should know the main points of medical equipment. It also stipulates the responsibility of the owner of a medical tool to conduct regular quality and safety monitoring and maintenance. To ensure the safety of users and patients, it is suggested in the bill that a minister is allowed to set a Regulation that requires that only health care professionals with a particular education and experience be allowed to use certain medical devices. In Europe, the obligation of operators, health institutions and health care professionals is to keep an electronic record of the implantable medical devices available to the person, to give or to another person. In view of experience, including in a so-called PIP-chest pad case, it was decided that they should be placed in medical clinics and health care professionals' offices to register information about which patient received a transplant, e.g. information about names, social names, or other identity names. The bill also provides clear permission for the Agency to access or receive information from the registry. A respectable president. The bill was prepared with the National Competent Authority. It was then set out that the bill was published in a government consultation on December 20, 2019, and agreed on by the end of January 10, 2020. The principal agencies and stakeholders were informed that the bill had been published on December 20, 2018, and on December 23, 2018, the Ministry of Health reported the matter on the Department's Homepage. A total of five comments were received about the bill being considered and made changes in the bill in accordance with them. The bill was then submitted to the last legislation, i.e. The 150th legislature, but it did not succeed and is now reimbursed. Although the bill remains unchanged, it does have a 49th chapter of value. In accordance with Council Regulation and Council 2020/561 of 23 April 2020, the change in Regulation 2017/745 of the medical devices for date when specific measures are implemented. The evaluation of the effectiveness of the bill on the state funds has been performed and if it remain unchanged that the law is expected to affect the law's legalisation of the bill on the state's budget, which is one of the qualifications of a specialist at the EMA. The bill contains new remuneration warrants and is assumed that the Agency's additional income will depend on the cost of status. A respectable president. I've now explained the basics of the bill. So, allow me to suggest that the bill be at the end of the 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u50	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a temporary reimbursement of the music law. The bill suggests a change in the requirements for reimbursement of audio recording, but it is suggested that the combined playing time of the music recording should be made at 14 minutes instead of 30 minutes, as the current law would expect. This adjustment is supported by national music industry, publishers, and artists by increasing the number of audio recordings that depend on the conditions of Article 5. The law. The proposals of the bill can include It is the result of a rapid growth in Icelandic music industry. This article gives us a considerable number of work to do on a yearly basis. This has changed the market situation and changed the environment, but recently a number of musicians have chosen to produce single songs, or short disks instead of broad disks, to call attention to their artistic or new albums. Daily speech refers to short disks that contain more than one track, often four to six, but that are within the standard 30-minute time of recording. Then the average duration of the pop songs is shorter than before, or three minutes and thirty seconds instead of four minutes before twenty years. It is generally believed that the consumption of music has moved into a flow band where the exchange of valuables depends on the number of cards. This bill suggests that the combined playing time of the music recordings will take 14 minutes instead of 30. It meets the needs of publishers and artists in the following changes in market and environment. Thus, the remuneration criteria would include a minimum of four medium lengths. As I've been onto it, the bill is in favour of the publishers and musicians in this country. The bill was presented in the last September of the government's consultations on September 14. Comments were STEF, Alda Music, UTDN, and the City of Music, in Reykjavík. The bill suggested that the combined music playtime be reduced to 14 minutes. If the bill is legal, the annual total amount of reimbursement may increase slightly, especially because more projects will reach the desired target. In the long run, however, a planned change may be expected to result in more frequent reimbursement than higher amounts. The funds intended for the reimbursement have not been fully used. Thus, despite the fact that this change is achieved, additional funds are not needed. As a result, the succeeding plans will not have a financial impact on financial funds. The bill does not call for changes in other laws and has been employed in good consultation with the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u51	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a bill for a change in child law. The bill suggests a change in children's law that points to the improvement of the children's law in terms of parental status of a trans-transmission and those with neutral sex registration. The changes are aimed at ensuring parental rights that have changed the registry and making them equal to other parents. The bill also suggests changes to the current legal requirements of child - law, which involves that a woman who agrees that assisted with her wife or partners will be considered the mother of a child, not the mother of a parent as recommended by the current law. In addition, the bill assumes changes to certain laws on birth and parent's license, social security laws, and sexual autonomy laws. The bill presented here was employed in cooperation with the Ministry of Presidency and by group of staff appointed by provision for temporary II on sexual autonomy law, No. 80/209. The bill is linked to the primary places the prime minister has already recommended changes in sexual autonomy laws as well as changes in various laws due to changes in sexual autonomy. The consequence of the bill is that in accordance with provisional II law on sexual autonomy, No. 80/209, appointed prime minister, including one, to serve as a member of the staff. were assigned to discuss and make suggestions for making changes in other laws needed to ensure the rights of people and those of the Intersex people, including children's law. The task force concluded that the bill for change in children's law published by the Board of Directors and based on the bill presented in this material on the proposals of the task force. According to the bill, Icelandic law did not make it a requirement for a change in the sex record of people to undergo a sterilization procedure as done in many countries for a short period of time. Therefore, it is possible that a man's pass will be carried along and give birth to a man and give birth to a man or a woman who has been given the power to have a child. In fact, these possibilities have been in place for the sentence on sexual autonomy, but the adjustment of the law has not been made to harmonize these realities. The laws on sexual autonomy of homes to form individuals who have objective registration of sex into a national file and who also need parents to consider the rules of child law. In current children's law, it is assumed that only a woman can give birth and that the term is used by a mother. It is then assumed in the law that the other parent of a child is generally male, i.e. to tell their father. According to child - law, a father is usually a biological parent, yet in some cases a father's parental status is determined by a mother without having the child conceived with his sperm. Children's law also define parental status when a woman who is married or enrolled with another woman gives birth to a child conceived in assisted reproduction techniques, the spouse being considered to be the child's parent. However, the current paediatric law does not include the case when a person who does not have a female sex record infant or when a person who does not have a male sex registry can be a child. This means that, according to the current court, a transtransmission would be considered the mother of a child, and so would a person with a neutral sex registration. Consequently, the woman who could father a child would be considered the child's father, and the same would apply to an individual with an objective sex registration. The changes suggested in the bill are originally assumed to be the basic meaning of the word father in the current law, i.e. that a father is a male parent. So according to the bill, a man who feeds a child after a change in his gender would be considered a father. This means that there is a possibility that a child has two fathers. Consistently, a change in the definition of the term "mother " is suggested in children's law so that it applies to a female parent but not to a woman who gives birth only. The change means that a child can have two mothers, e.g. if the mother who gives birth to him is married, or having sex with a wife. Because of the changed term it is considered necessary to alter the requirements of child law and other laws measuring for special rights to the mother due to pregnancy and childbearing. Then it is suggested in the bill that the term parent in a narrower sense will be applied to parents who have a neutral gender registration. The bill is secondly suggested that the parental rule, which might be called the parens est principle, parallel the pater est rule of 2.g. child law, the value of a parent's position with the changed sex registration of marriage or a registered couple with the child. In view of the premium of child law that such rules rest on the overwhelming likelihood that the partner is a biological parent, it is suggested that the parens est rule applies only if the parent's original gender does not rule out a biological relationship between the partner and the child. So, as is true of the pater est Code, the rule cannot be applied in marriages or in relations of persons who initially had the same sex registration. The requirement for a biological relationship in this setting is directly related to the child's right to know its origin. If a woman is to be born without assisted reproductive techniques based on the law and the biological association with a partner are excluded, the origin of the sperm and the result of the child's biological origin is completely uncertain. It should be noted, however, that in ART, the situation is quite different. This is a formal process, used in the donor seed, and a seed will be legally passed according to a child's own father. If the parens est rule or specific rules about parenthood after ART are not applicable, the parent's position on gender will be changed, i.e. the one who was not born, determined by a parental teaching, which is basically like a family teaching, or a legal case according to the rules of child law. However, it also applies to the parental teaching that if initial gender does not rule out a biological relationship between the parent and the child, it can only apply. Third, special rules for parental status are provided in the bill for the decision of a parent who has changed his or her sex registration when a child is conceived in assisted reproduction techniques. On the one hand, there is rules about the parenthood of the parent who gives birth to the child, i.e. A man who feeds a child is considered a father, and a person with neutral gender is considered to be the parent of a child to whom he or she feeds. However, the other parent's parental status parallels the rules of Article 6. baby law. The bill suggests a fourth layer of change in 2 mg. Section 6. in the current child-friendly state that a woman who agrees on assisted reproductive techniques should be considered the mother of a child, not the mother of a parent as required by the current law. Finally, the bill suggests that a child has the right to have available information in the national registry for registration of his parents'parental status as well as for information about changes in their gender record. Further, the bill allows the Minister to set up a further Regulation on the format and implementation of the registration of the child in a national registry, including data to confirm the birth of a child, assisted reproductive techniques here and abroad, and on its parent and the delivery of information to the child. It should be noted that the bill does not provide basic changes in those foundation rules for parental status, i.e. that a spontaneous registration of the father and father would expect to be legalised in the family unless formal assisted reproductive techniques have taken place. As a result, it must be demonstrated that in the case of two pregnant women, formal assisted reproductive techniques have been performed. However, it is suggested that the secretary should set up a regulation on child registration following assisted reproductive techniques, which allows them to consider how to maintain a record that can be most accessible to the current legislation. Madam President. With these changes, we are making sure that the legal environment will more reflect our reality and the diversity we have in our community. At the same time as we rejoice in diversity, we cannot have laws that do not acknowledge the parental status of a person and the intervening of a couple according to gender. It is also important to consider the child's right to know his origin and to learn about his parents. If the bill is legal, we will accept the parenthood status of a person, secure the right definition of the mother for partners, but will not make basic changes on the basis of parental status. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the basic subject of the bill. So I suggest that the bill will be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u52	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill for a change in plagion law. The bill suggests the adjustment of regulations for temporary III in the law to ensure that the requirements set out in the budget have sufficient delays to be made on the basis of bond reports to pay off payments and/or interests to up to 16 May 2021. By law on changing various laws to meet the economic impact of a pandemic crown virus, No. 25/2020, including add a plagion law to a preliminary addition which provided an Annex on a bond card, requiring the continuation of payment on individual or company debt for up to nine months, the same level of rights as if it were announced to the council as he was approved by later betors. This source was given because of a pandemic crown virus and valid for an appendix made from March 16, 2020 to September 1, 2020. It was then made necessary for the press to be announced on March 16, 2021, and the original document of a bond to be signed on the terms of the changes in terms of terms of terms. On June 30, 2020, the General Assembly adopted a law on the change in financial support laws to the operators for a pandemic crown virus, the laws on local tax pay on capital gains, and terms of Congress, No. 82/2020, for example, where the demand to put aside the requested addition to a bond was extended to January 1, 2021 instead of September 1, 2020. Firstly, the bill presented suggests changes to make it clear that the Annexes on Partial Remuneration Protocols, e.g. Pronunciation of the payments solely or in terms of growth depends only on the terms. Second, it is suggested that authorization for reimbursement according to Annex I will be extended from nine months to 18 months, so the additions to cover documents measuring for long-term periods of pay rest within temporary Article III of the Parliamentary Code. Third, it is suggested that creditors be delayed to announce an Annex to 16 May 2021 so that the demands have plenty of time in view of the uncertainty caused by the crown virus to evaluate the Annexes. The premise that the requirement holders can respond to the negative effects of the crown virus on the individual and company's payment capacity while minimising the risk and spread of the virus is that they will have plenty of time to be provided for the disposal of the specified Annex to both loans and members of the council. There is hope that the changes presented here will result in that goal. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u53	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct individual registration laws. The bill suggests two changes in the law. On the one hand, correction is suggested under the version of the system identification to still-born infants who are born after the 22nd week of pregnancy and, on the other, delay in the implementation of two decisions. A respectable president. I will now tore up key elements of the bill. The Act on individual registration is, as it is known, a system ID code. In accordance with the regulations, foreigners for special interests in this country can be given the given system identification number. Since these individuals do not qualify for a standard social security number, they are shocked to assign a so - called system identification number. These system IDs are used in public institutions, e.g. if these people have to pay taxes, use medical services, and not receive national rights. It has been customary to register babies born dead after the 22nd week of pregnancy in an outdoor registry, which is the predecessor of a system ID file. The contracting of a person's registration bill failed to assume this, and it is suggested by the bill that this should be corrected. It is thus suggested that babies born still before the 22nd week of their pregnancy receive a social security number, but so far, children born and stillborn have a routine record of 22 weeks of pregnancy in a so - called extracurricular registry. By this change, parents of children who die after the 22nd week of their pregnancy receive certain rights, such as birthworm, as it were. Law on birth and parent'sorof, No. 95/2000, therefore the need for a record of these individuals. It is then necessary for healthcare professionals to record these children. The Act on individual registrations suggests that system IDs will be set apart from traditional social security numbers. This law was to be applied at the next year. Iceland's national records are ready for this change, but it is fair to extend more time to adapt to these changes, and it is suggested here, Madam President, that there will be a delay in the separation of the system identification of the traditional social security committees to May 1. Furthermore, it is expected in the individual registry that unless there are exceptional circumstances, it must be given no permission to distribute the national file in its entirety. The ban should apply at this time of the year. However, it is possible that the national registration system will not be prepared technically for this ban for the coming year, so it is suggested here that the ban on the national registration will be suspended on to June 1, 2022. A more dignified president may be able to say that national records are ready for the operation to limit or reject national reporting, which was to be taken into effect at the next year's convention, and it is safe to leave 4 mg. Section 12. The law which was suspended for the year comes to action as soon as it is suggested by this bill. Madam President. I have now made clear the general subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u54	Madam President. Thank you for your advance minister. This bill suggests that there will be an improvement in individual registration laws, No. 140/209, clearance to provide systemic identification for stillborn infants born after the 22nd week of pregnancy. I'm especially happy about this bill, and I'm glad to hear it. I welcome it because it includes acknowledging that this applies to the unborn and that these are individuals. At the same time, however, the bill reminds us of the bad conduct the government took when the new abortion law was adopted at the General Assembly last year. The media supported the abortion case, and I know that it was a real disappointment for many candidates. The case has not been a blessing to the class. The same can be said of the Independence Party. A baby born dead because of an abortion who is 21 weeks and six days will not have a social security number, but a baby born still for other reasons, one day older will receive a social security number. According to the law, after approval of the new abortion laws, the child feels that if he is a day younger than 22 weeks old, it is considered a cellular sheet that is legally destroyed. Asking whether it is possible for us to draw here so tight a line between not being an individual. I don't think so. Madam President. It would have been wishful when the new abortion law was approved here at the General Assembly last year that the government had shown children in the womb as much respect as in this bill, since it has come, not from the government, but from Iceland's National Book.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u55	I recommend here for a bill to be canalized. This bill suggests a new universal law that applies to ships. Is this done to simplify the legal environment and establish laws concerning them in a single law? There are many laws that have to do with this subject in one way or another, many of which have come to their own age. The complexity and inaccessible order of this process has been criticized, particularly for the security requirements for order and monitoring. If this bill is legal, it will replace law No. 31/1925, fix No. 115/1985, on command registration, nr. 146/2002, for measuring orders, and for fixing numbers. 47/2003, ship monitoring. In addition, there are specific laws that are proposed to be canceled. That's the law No. 4/1997, on authorization for the government to allow Hf. Oil source import on oil barge; law No. 27/1989, on authorization for the government to allow the Kafari Station hf., Hf Dypsun Society, Iceland's accident prevention partner and the Icelandic fishing company. The import of ships; law No. 23/1993, on authorization for the government to allow Iceland's accident security partner to import a lifeboat, and law No. 24/1993, on authority for the government to allow the Sveinniber Runolfson Sf. Importing pixbuf. The objective of the bill is to secure the safety of Icelandic ships, their crews and passengers, to provide protection against pollution from ships, and to ensure effective registration, marking, measuring, and monitoring of ships. The bill is also designed to fulfill the international commitments under the United States. Global orderlines are in effect. As part of the International Chesalvation Agency Convention and the International Jobs Agency contracts, and as well as as their commitment to comply with the regulations set out in the European Economic Area. Then Iceland is involved in the work of the European Nautilus Safety Agency. This bill does not suggest major changes in the material rules that today apply to ships. Specific laws from the current law are not recorded in the bill and are intended to present them to a administrative committee. This is especially a list of the conditions and information to be provided for applications. It is suggested that principles be handled in the law rather than that more detailed regulations and conditions should be found in administrative decrees. In this way, conditions will be more accessible to users of the law who do not need to be searched both in law and in regulations to find these requirements. In addition, the arrangement makes administrative management simpler, e.g. already need to be adjusted for certain aspects of Iceland's commitments under international contracts, including the European Economic Area Convention. On the basis of current laws, there are a number of regulations that further address the requirements of ships. Within the Department of Transport and Transportal Affairs, this vast, broad system of regulations is being developed in order to be more accessible to those who work by these rules. Is the bill a part of that project. The bill is divided into six chapters. In chapter I of the bill, there are laws on the objective of the law, their values and their expressions. The bill applies to all Icelandic ships, i.e. ships that are registered here on the land and have the right to sail under the Icelandic flag. At the same time, they apply to international ships living in economic history or on Iceland's land base, unless there are other international laws. In section II: the bill is a command-registered registry. Finding a provision for registration, dry registration, the right to sail under the Icelandic flag, national and registration cards, a change in registrational records, or changes in the name or address of a vessel. Finally, you will find instructions on the registration of ships and letters. In III. section contains instructions on the meaning and measurement of ships. It is important that ships be clearly marked and that the bill be restricted from hiding meanings or going away. At that time, a ship's name should not be marked by any other name than it has been written under it. The minister is expected to recommend the meaning of the Regulation. Much of the measuring of ships is being carried out by international rules on these subjects. The bill refers to this international law, and it recommends the publishing of ships'letters and the announcement of ship construction and the change of ship. IV. there are measures to monitor ships. It contains orders for building ships, their equipment, etc., for equipment and working conditions, monitoring of new vessels and changes in them, import ships, responsibility for seakeeping and the implementation of policies, orders of action, shipping control, seasports, employment transport, old ships and information requirements when people know about rules. Chapter V contains regulations for curfew. It is the permission of a U.S. walking agency to set a ship by ban. Is this done when leaving a ship without a valid license or a valid certificate? This should also be done if the staff of the Agency are prevented in their operations during follow-up. In VI. section is a requirement for expenses and penalties. The chapter contains permission for the Grouping Room to collect services for monitoring. Then there is a law on government fines, punishments, police charges, and the right of individuals not to take responsibility. In the current law, there is no provision for government guilty. Rather, they assume that crimes against the law are reported to the police for investigation. This bill suggests that a walking agency is authorized to commit such fines. It is generally considered more efficient measures to be used by government authorities than to represent them in courts. Those governments who monitor a specific field often have a key role in determining where to respond effectively to legal support. Finally, there is a set of validations. If this bill is legalized, the law will take effect on July 1, 2021. Is it so that governments will have time to make the necessary changes in regulations and other administrations before the law takes effect? This bill does not contain a command charge, now found in Article 28. plan to monitor ships. This is a law that lays taxes on the owners of ships and is considered to be appropriate in other laws that are more appropriate, e.g. Is It Out? No. 88/1991. They're working on such a change in the financial and economic sector. The approval of the bill is not expected to bring in the financial expenses. It is not expected that the bill will affect the job life, since the bill does not contain new requirements for individuals or companies. Madam President. I have now explained the key elements of this bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u56	I recommend a bill to a new comprehensive link of communication that was submitted to the last legislation but failed to succeed. The bill is now presented in the same form, but with a few minor corrections and updates. An open radio law requires a review, and progress in communications and communications services has been extensive and is still being carried out. The main objective of the bill is to synchronize national rights with an up-to-date joint communication rule, ensuring the best available, efficient, efficient and secure communications on land. In addition, increasing consumer protection and options and promoting active competition, economic investments, and innovation in telecommunications markets. The bill is based on the subject of the recent European Parliament directive and the Council's Council on the European rules for communication, which are often referred to as the Code. This is a new basis for releasing four older European directives, based mainly on national communicators. The bill also suggests that there will be a legislation on the Regulation for the implementation of a European Community Communications Commission Regulation, BEREC, and its establishment for its support. BREC is an important site of cooperation that is entrusted with a recruitment role and is designed primarily to promote the integrated implementation of a European telecommunications principle. At the same time as preparing a bill for new communications legislation, a team of health experts with the Department of Transport, State Department of State and the Post and Communications has been working to prepare the recording of the so-called communications package, i.e. The Code and the BREC Regulation, the EEA Convention. Contract negotiations are completed between the EU and the EFTA countries on essential adaptation for the uptake of the Convention. Plans for revision of communication laws were published as a review in the European Commission during the summer of 2019 and a panorama of the projection of telecommunications in December. The bill was given 14 envelopes, and they were taken into account in the passage of a bill that was given to the General Assembly last spring. It went to the Environment and Transport Committee after the 1st. who requested a review of the case and received a total of 13 reviews. Of the main changes and indicators of the bill, it is just a reminder to set aside time to complete the marketing analysis and the materials involved in the stress of bills, which are designed to reduce the number of stress squares and complexity during treatment. The bill encourages cooperation between market partners and joint investments in building infrastructure and specific elements of the infrastructure. Substitutions that only sell access to whole-sized structures and do not work at a local level of sale can be said to be random that in such a company it is not possible to place as heavy a charge as those who both sell totals access to infrastructure and work at a level of sale. There is also a new requirement, which means that the post and communications agency can, under certain circumstances, if other means have not been sufficient, such as access to workers, tracks, networks or services, dictates the separation of the sectoral units of an enterprise with considerable market strength. Communicators with considerable market strength should then be able to provide proposals for commitment to common investments, separation, activities, and the general means. Such an offer can lead to some relief from the provisions. According to the Companies, a total price of phone call and text will be set for the entire European Economic Area, but this will have to be a simple national administration and will continue to be unnecessary for the mail and communications agency to perform analysis and make a price decision. This is linked to the fact that the BREC Protocol calls and text messages in the European Economic Area, which are added when there is a maximum price for conflict in the EEA area. This change may lead to some market loss of income, while consumers benefit from it. More emphasis on consumer access is reflected in the terms and quality of communications services, as well as economic standards. It is suggested that the maximum binding time of agreements for communications services with consumers will be extended from six to 12 months, and consumer protection will be included. increased by legalisation of a package oer. Services are expected to reduce the number of services used by current legislation according to the changing approach in the European Regulation. However, consumers should still have access to a suitable network connection and telephone service with the specified cost quality. The bill assumes that the time to 20 years is due to an event or at least 15 years of age according to the Code. Then the bill is suggested to open prices for expeditation and renting frequencies between markets. It is suggested that the post-and telecommunications agency be authorized for the pressures of administration guilty of violations of communication laws, but under current legislation the Agency can only commit day-to-day fines. The bill also suggests some changes to the current Post and Communication Act, No. 69/2003, but the Code contains new guidelines for monitoring and development of a communications market. Most importantly, the Companions. To contribute to the economic development of the 5G systems of Europe, as well as the photoengineering systems, the basis for the fourth industrial revolution and the network. Me and the Icelanders have been among the leaders in recent years in the construction of communications timbers and are willing to continue to do so. Practical structure and security are the key elements that the government now stresses. 5G systems become a central nervous system in the future, taking into account the growing demand that many countries now feel is driving to improve the security of their infrastructure, including 5G netting services. Internationally, risk analysis is emphasised, and the services must not be too dependent on one supply or manufacturer of equipment and must be carried out with special security requirements for the centre of communication systems. The bill suggests that there will be a legislation on security benefits based on the development of mobile networks based on reports and proposals of a staff of three advisers, the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of State. The directive was implemented in consultation with State, Justice and Presidency, and will include the Commission of Justice and Justice. Based on the European recommendations from the end of January of this year on the need to improve the safety of 5G-farnets. The development of these issues has been monitored during the past few months in other European countries and does not warrant a change in the provision. This information has been updated in a revised bill, consistent with the wording of development since the last spring was recommended. Change of purpose is minor. Among the defined five-year communications program for 2019-2023, a new global communication rule is introduced as soon as possible. The value of a new communication law is suggested at the beginning of 2021, and the main policy of communication is thus developed at a time similar to that of the Code on the continent of Europe. Is It Wrong to Tell Others? No. 81/2003, and the bill is rooted in other EEA types of communication that will run along with the new communication package. In a series of elements of the bill, the origin of an individual set of requirements is given. It may be evident that a global review of communications laws requires reassessment of current regulations and regulations followed by the implementation of new regulations and regulations and the implementation of preparatory work. The bill is urgent. The demand is in the market, and if it is approved it will contribute to increasing Iceland's competitiveness, increasing consumer protection and development in the European Communications market. A respectable president. I've been explaining the subject of the bill in general and suggesting that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u57	Madam President. We've spent a considerable amount of time discussing Internet security here at the General Assembly, and we recently agreed on Internet security laws. There is no question that this is a big issue in itself and is becoming more and more important as time passes. I'm on the Environment and Transport Committee, which will deal with this excellent bill, as well as with the Foreign Affairs Committee, and I'd like only a minister to address simple questions or reflections. The bill says, with President's permission: A national net network may be or may become highly dependent on one manufacturer... - There is a gap for it, as it may now appear in some ways in the construction of the 5G-farnet system, that there will be one or a few that will be the most prevalent in the system. This is where we hide the assessment of this in the hands of the post and telecommunications agency. The question is, is that the right course? Is that the menu? Or is it to be some group of advisers or national security advice that really appreciates this? And they continue to say in the bill: It's also in the hands of the secretary of state and defences, public security and law enforcement authorities to evaluate certain aspects of the Internet security. And then I ask, Is it not just the same with the National Security Council? These aren't complicated. I'd like to have the highest response. Minister for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u58	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for excellent questions and speculations. It is true that the senator says that there is much growth, the bill is an entire book with a report and an explanation. That's what I'm talking about. A senator asks about, in fact, the law of 87th pars. The bill. In my case, I learned that there are three agencies involved in a contract in addition to the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs, i.e. Justice, State and Presidency. Experts of these schemes are actually working with expert post and communications centres on this assessment, where there are potential weaknesses or challenges where people have to question and make special requirements for equipment in the whole system, they need to be from the employees we work in a protection and security team. And also to ensure that in what way we can ensure that equipment will not come primarily from one person, as it may be the biggest threat in everything, to become so dependent on one manufacturer that the whole system is dependent on one big company. I think the post-communications centre is the front among peers in evaluating this factor to at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u59	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and he agrees well. I'm sure the generals in this case are technically viewed by the post - telecommunications agency. However, I ask - because I was referring to a National Security Council, I know that the expansion has been extended, if I may say so, the profession of its body, security has become much more than what we usually have connected, between defense and warfare and other things - whether it would be a part of the National Security Council that was associated with this network security in the telecommunications Act. I could imagine that role. There's only a few more involved than representatives of the post and telecommunications agency. But this is a point that we will discuss on the committee. We will, of course, but I would like a minister's opinion of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u60	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's online security issues are clearly national security, so he also hears, not just technology, but technology may be a major factor. In view of the foreign scholars and the approach of the Ministry, which truly handles technology and regulates this structure, it is primarily a matter of risk management. Therefore, it is up to us not to accept that all parts of the CNS society in the future, in order to speak up, from the same manufacturer, and hence all of us entirely depend on the knowledge and service of the respective parties. There seems to be general agreements in the system that modules need to be from different manufacturers, and the bill encourages cooperation, a innovation in the European Regulation, not only of competition, but also of partners and partners. It is also generally in view of the fact that some parts of the grid are more sensitive than others, and therefore, there are different requirements for safety and trust, and therefore two members of the Ministry of State for Security and the Ministry of Justice for Public Safety, Public Security, are being met by these factors. However, there may well be differences in the definition of security requirements and trust in manufacturers and in which parts of the network are not fully trusted. Of course, the Ministry has observed this technological development and discussion in our neighboring countries with the aim of ensuring that this will be a network built up here that we and our partners can have full confidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u61	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize a change in fair-to-treat laws for crimes in institutions or households under law No. 26/2007. These laws were passed here at the General Assembly, following a discussion on child care in Brejuvík's dormitory of the 20th century. With law No. 26/2007 was recommended for the order of committees to investigate the paediatric ecology and treatment systems, thereby creating grounds for social development because of the child's use of ecosystems in previous years. As a result, law No. 47/2010, fair compensation for crimes in institutions or households under law No. 26/2007. According to point two. This law requires reasonable improvements in the existence of an ecosystem report on the institution and, in addition, the establishment of the applicant. The World Health Committee won careful reports on a number of ecosystems, and thereafter they paid fair compensation to individuals on the basis of application. The latest report of the 2016 economist on the Kópavog farm was published. The committee was assigned to describe the function of the asylum in behalf of disabled children who stayed there. The report also provided suggestions for the continuation of other institutions where disabled children were saved. A pan-European committee has investigated general work of eco-treatment agencies for children but only discussed the saving of disabled children in one public institution, the Kopavogs bin. The objective of this bill is to make it possible to complete a reform because of disabled people, who were saved as children in other institutions responsible for the government. It is considered not a reason to provide as much detailed and time - consuming assessments of the existing institutions as in previous cases or to publish more economistal committee reports, but it is considered that there is sufficient knowledge in the reports and studies that have been published on timeliness, attitudes, structure and activities, as well as on what went wrong or better. Thus, with the reports of an economist committee, there has already been a resolution to the past, thus providing a basis for a simpler, quicker way of taking sides with the people who were saved in children for disabled persons and who believe that they had experienced ill - treatment and violence in that saving process. The bill aims to complete social development because of the agencies where disabled children were saved years earlier, it will be done in a simpler and quicker way, which could result in significant benefits for these individuals where they will be able to be examined and resolved in a much shorter period of time. The main ingredient of the bill is four. First of all, legal requirements are suggested. 47/2010, of fairness improvements, would no longer be referred to law No. 26/2007, i.e. The law on an economist committee, and the Commission report will not be required to meet certain requirements for treatment. Track No. 26/2007, under the order of the committee to investigate the paediatric ecology and treatment systems. No further surveys are needed under the law, and as I said earlier, it is considered to be enough information about generality, attitudes and structure. Second, the requirements for treatment, both in species, in periods of recovery and in the treatment of a set, will be detailed. It is suggested that the time zone used for the Kopavog binum, i.e. To February 1, 1993, whether the institution has served longer than 1993 is not important. Nor does it matter that there is still another type of activity under the same name, such as a home or a home core. A suggestion for this time point is based on equilibrium and on the changes made in disabled persons's habitats and on the services of disabled children associated with the validation of laws on the case of the disabled, No. 59/1992 and the years that follow. Third, regardless of the financial value, it is suggested that compensation be allowed in a single way. An enforcing law says that benefits will be paid in up to 36 months. Finally, the law of No. There will be a period of life for 47/2010. Three years from the conversion of the change, they fall away. The majority of improvements are expected to take place in the coming year and should prove to be time enough to complete potential lawsuits and cut off other loose ends. This will be the end of the nation's most severe forms of social development. If the bill is legal, it is expected to result in a cost of between 414 and 44669 million. K. which is divided into four factors. First, 80 to 90 individuals are expected to be paid mostly in 2021. Depending on the improvements made by Kopavogus, the average improvement is expected to be less than 5 billion. K. and a total cut-off of 3,90,440 million. K. Second, the cost of working with eco-remates for a maximum of 12 months is 15 to 20 billion. K. Third, it is estimated that four million will be costing the costs of the decision-making committee. K. which is distributed over the course of three years. And at last, the cost of buying expert advice is expected, about 5 billion. K. There was a degree of uncertainty about the outcome of this bill, since it was in a Senate file last spring, which was my decision to postpone the donation because of a pandemic. At that time, Congress was very uncertain, and there were other issues that could be replaced by problems related to the pandemic. As a result, expenses for the case are not expected on the budget, but proposals for additional expenditures will be submitted to 2nd. budgets with expectations that the council will end the case. Madam President. I believe that by transporting this bill, the government shows that it takes seriously what has been reported in the discussions and reports of economists have been broken in equipment, care and well - being of disabled children saved in institutions of the past. I'm not going to go to the reading of previous reports, I expect that's what I'm going to do. Congressmen have studied their contents, for they have an enormous amount of material and many striking descriptions. This bill is designed to end in a decent way in which fairness would be improved to those who were saved as children at institutions for disabled children, and thus, as far as it is possible, social development is possible for this. I think all members of the Parliament can agree that this is an important matter that must be discussed and treated by the Parliament and that, of course, I hope that the Council can unite in this way of ending these matters. After that, I suggest that the bill be referred to a second. ... andwhat. The General and Education Committee following this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u62	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for presenting this bill, and he has some questions about it. Some 13 years ago, a battle struck the nation when this case first came up on the table on television, as it were, in a country where children were sent to live and treat, so to speak, and it was found to be a failure. Since then, it has been years, a bill was submitted, and fair compensation has been paid as high as the highest level. Minister has crossed, and this is a so-called finale. There have also been applications from other sources, not many, due to a variety of non-Socation homes, private homes, or some kind of clinics and farm homes in private homes, often by government, rural society, child - welfare committees, or social agencies. There have been reports that the treatment may not have been sufficiently effective in some cases. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is this term the final step intended to take it for treatment? There are not many instances, not many homes, but are they not, because it's been going well so far, finishing this case completely? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good question. I didn't say so here, but an ecology committee has discussed a considerable number of institutions. It was the residence in Breiðavík that I mentioned, but also the Deaf School, Kumbarvog, the school home of Gulgi, the Silungpolli and the Smokehluð, the Japanese boarding school, the state's home of recordings in two different periods, the treatment center in the Turfas and the Torfasium, and then the Kopavogs wing, the latest report. The homes intended to reach here are not only homes that were driven by the State but, by government permission, by rural society, or by individuals. We think we have a pretty good perspective on which places these were, and I expect them to go. A global and educational committee will review this list in detail, which includes another dozen homes, and therefore we hope that this will be called the final act. However, the purpose is to include members who stayed as children in homes that were run either by state, by rural society, or by the permission of public members. Well, that might cover it as a dog. A senator asks about. I understand his concern in these matters, that is comparable to mine. I expect that. A top-of-the-art Board of Education and Education will do a fairly thorough and precise analysis of this factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u64	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for her answers. This has taken 13 years - a lot of work, a lot of money - and it looks like we're finally landing it, but more than 1,000 applications have been received. I think it's safe to say it's been done well and people are happy about how things have been done on the part of the State. It's like the highest. A minister said that he was referring to another dozen members who took children to the fetus on the side of public bodies. I don't think there's a point to be put, Madam President, on these cases in the past until it's completely completed. If there's so little left over, few cases, few members, and a home, and all this work has been put into these cases, it's just necessary to finish it altogether. It would be worth it for us, for the legislature and for the government, that it will be done. These children, I've heard examples of this, were certainly sent to these public homes, and although a private home was being discussed, the matter must be completed and investigated. Of course it is a long time ago, and it is difficult, but nothing more difficult than the issues that were originally here in this case. If these are so few cases and get home, I'm the highest. Minister to set the endpoint in this case and complete it completely. It is a shame for us as a nation to have this in the past. We have to finish this all the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u65	Mr. President. I can say with what. Senator. It is very important for the Council to complete these matters in a handsome way. This will be discussed in the report. It quotes the report on the capital of Kapovogs. I want to agree with what. A senator, a great deal of work, has been put into many of these studies. It is also about institutions of self - interest, but it is also about organizations that are considered how to define, whether to call them a home or a home, a family home. The above is especially suggested that disabled children were saved in private homes for a short and long period of time. I would also like to say that there were cases of disabled children being saved in hospitals simply because there were no alternative measures. It is certainly not a simple matter to put your arms around it. I also know that there are many people who have been waiting for this bill, who have observed 13 years of work and have told me about it, and doubtless someone else. Congressmen, their experience. I'm not going to deny that I'm going to stress the importance that we can end this in a decent way for the Generals and thus repair the people who were saved in these homes as children, disabled children.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u66	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The prime minister for this tremendous need - and need of our dealings as partners with the wrongs and neglects of children. So let us keep it up, remembering that the children living under the worst conditions were children who were in the most difficult social situation, i.e. lived in poverty, were children of single mothers, disabled children, etc. who have a hard backland. But, hey. paritaprevir In fact, Hjaltason Gautiçi came up with what I was going to ask the highest. Prime Minister of, i.e. regarding the children who would land outside what the bill should cover and whether the final update mentioned in the bill would be finalized or if it is within her opinion of space for the council to expand this concept of finalization and whether it is still some space to cover the children who were saved in private homes by child protection committees in rural communities, which are certainly public members who have taken care of children and their destiny. In some ways, it's the highest. The prime minister's answer to that question is here in answer to what might happen. A senator. But I'd like to hear her opinion of whether there is still room for the council to step in there and expand the concept or otherwise to explore these children and their interests and whether there is a greater scope for children outside the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u67	Madam President. As I came to see here, the eco-treatment centres that were run by state or rural society or by private people, but always with the administration of the State, i.e. By the permission of the state. Just so clearly, those who were sent to private homes by other private agents are not being looked at. It would be impossible to grasp it. This is where the measures taken by the public are taken, namely, our duty. to settle in with those children at the time, of course, but they were also sent to a private home. They're looked to in the sense of the 2007 law, i.e. An eco-treating agency that was driven by state or rural society or by a private member on the basis of official permission. And that, of course, was a significant one. As I went over earlier, detailed reports on various other institutions have actually given us this basis to stand on. And it was my conclusion that after reviewing the report on the Kopavogus - and it's something I also think it's important that the council discuss well and, of course, the council should study this case well because this is an important matter - that no more committees are needed but that it is important to accept what we have already done, which is very thorough and really shows what we can expect. No doubt there were some differences between households, but we can draw conclusions from the reports available to all. I felt that the message I wanted to send to this decision was that we wanted to finish this act, that we didn't want to spend any more years in research, that we had enough data to build on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u68	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for her answer. I agree with her that there is a need to put a point behind the tremendous, thorough work that has been asked for in homes sent to the public. I may want to take this opportunity to direct it to what is happening. The General and Education Committee is looking to see if the legal bill on this subject gives any reason to be some kind of example for those referred to in a private home by the Children's Health Committee in the local community to feel that they have something right. It's like the highest. The prime minister came in when the work that has taken place has been long, thorough, thorough, but difficult. At the same time, it has been necessary to improve child - welfare practices and to improve child - care issues as well as neglect. So I would like to hear at the top of the world a little brief. Prime Minister, although we don't have a lot of time, how she sees the work that has been done, whether it will benefit us in the legal process we are trying to improve here every day, hopefully, at a council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u69	Madam President. Perhaps in general about the outworking of Kingdom interests with those who have been victimized by injustice. I believe that we are based on very good experience from the way we've done it, and I think there's a considerable knowledge of that matter within the control system. So I believe we're building a strong foundation. That's even. Also, I felt that it was important to bring this matter into my home. This is an important matter, this is a matter of justice, and it is also important that we do not lose out on the work that has been done so far in this regard. But if you do. As for children today, I think a senator is thinking about the laws we now have in regard to them, of course, that there is also a need for improvement, though extraordinary things have changed for the better from what was being done. For example, the Minister of Social Affairs is a member of the Parliament for the winter, depending on how to ensure the prosperity of children and to support the entire environment around our children, which I think is a big progress. Thus, this winter, not only will it be possible to cope with the fate of children in the past but it will also bring future destiny to children. And I think there are ample opportunities for improvement, although, of course, the recent years and decades have done a tremendous amount of good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u70	Madam President. I'm not gonna keep this far. I'm gonna make a little bit of what's been going on here and maybe add a little bit more. In times past, so - called babies or unkempts were often sent to the countryside. It was thought to strengthen and strengthen them and make them humans, as they were said. Hence, those days may not have been found to be taken into account when the government sent or advised to send the children, children who may have been more difficult than many others, in government homes. There was no big deal here in the 1950's. No one may have known exactly, or at the time what was going on there, or what happened during this stay. On February 2, 2007, we were awakened to the evil dream of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, where the reaction was ignored. The government gave a bill that would be examined very soon. Then, Madam President, in many lands, a pot was broken in these homes, which were most often driven by the State or by other government agencies. Treatment of children was often different and was characterized by much harshness, often during, and even worse, periods. It may be far too much to get right into it. It's been done very well over the last 13 years, I believe. Now we look forward to the end of this matter. It was taken, I think, eight homes at first and then two or three were added. It was Breiðavavík, Anarchist School, Kumbaravgur, Save, Smokehide, Jadar, Silungpus, National Reconnaissance House of Youth. Later, I think, Landakots School and Kopavogsun. All of this was successfully treated on the basis of laws later, 2010, and appointed by a special committee and a government representative, and then one individual county office was committed to exorbitant reviews and opinions. It's all been going through these years, everyone. Now we look forward to the end of this. Many applied, members who had stayed in those homes, and received a release of their cases or of some sort, often in the form of reforms, the reasonable benefits of the so - called but also professional help, and they were instructed where to seek professional assistance. I commend all the developments in this matter as he looks. Although I don't know all the events at all or if anyone is unhappy, I believe we've done as well as we could. That, however, was rejected by 69 applications, according to this report I have here. Of course, that was for a number of reasons, perhaps because of some misunderstanding, etc. However, there are dozens of cases or applications that include children, as mentioned earlier, were sent by public authorities, Child Protection Committees, Social Affairs, etc. or, according to their advice, children who were in the hands of or in the care of the public, in a private home or in some intermediate level. They were, as some examples prove, sent back and forth in the home and then retook and sent back to some other home. I've heard stories about it. These are very rare cases. I want to challenge the highest. A minister who took so very well in my inquiry in an answer earlier on the matter of what should be done for these people. Why don't we just say it's over now and hang up after us? I think it's such a big matter that we've already taken care of for the most part that we can't be known for that, Madam President, to leave this small group behind. They need to continue this work, they may be in the hands of this committee or any other agents appointed to do so, and examine the few remaining cases, as far as they can be done in many cases. These people also enjoy that the State wants to pay for some kind of fair compensation or to settle the matter professionally with a reference to experts or such. We can't be known for anything but to finish things completely. I'm the highest. A minister to handle this matter, and we leave nothing in these matters. We can't afford it. It was a shock when it discovered how the pot was in many parts of the world, which, fortunately, is not everywhere and in all cases not in all cases, well from now on, I'm not going to paint it that black, but in many cases it was that way. We have to get it over with, take it all the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-20-11.u71	Madam President. I thank them. Councilmen who have spoken up and would like to say that it is always difficult to pull a line into the sand, such as the sledgehammer. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason has gone over. This is where children were seen in many places, both in private homes and in homes driven by rural areas and in public state homes, but prefigured that the activity was by government permission. So there is a question where to draw such a line. And because of what? The senator encouraged me to look into this further, so I think the next step in this matter is that the committee considers these questions. I agree with what. Senator, I don't think this is a large group. I would also like to point out that the homes I listed earlier have been carefully studied, and I would like to agree with them. A senator, I have found this project to be widely carried out, both in research and in reports made, but also in the implementation of the law by the government. But this has only been about saving disabled children in one official institution, the Kopavogs bin. On the other hand, we feel that we have quite a vision of where they were saved. I think it's important to do that. The General and Education Committee will consider this as a matter of course. A senator has said. If that case calls for further consideration, of course, we're in the Ministry of Presidency. Other than that, I'd like to thank you for the discussion, Madam President, and hope that this case will have a positive response at the council.
