ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u1	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. Is a curse in itself negative? Yes, it is. But if it is a challenge, are they still a curse? That was my case, and I was trying to prove it. Not at all. It's like financing, but I don't think the photo that the Central Party members of the United States fantasize about their transport funding. They say it's all going too slowly, etc., but if we add up the numbers and look at the committee opinion, the funding is very handsome and clear, letting go of the 2023 financial campaign, which will explain a little bit better in the fall. This is a delay with this donations and with co-works and the national contract. And now that the State's debt is about to go on, let's say, 500 billion by Covid, shall we add another 150 billion loans? [[Up to the bottom of a debt...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u2	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I mean, the answer to if we should add to the total debt is yes. We must assume that the projects that would be based on the debt of construction initiatives are profitable and will bring something into the community for a long time. Of course, the extent of what they produce to the public is considerable, both in taxes and in expenses, in wages, in response to rural society, and so on. So it must be watched from all sides. The situation is that it has probably never been easier than now to finance a country's infrastructure on incredibly low interest rates. Suppose, for example, that the state's budget wanted to take the euro risk on that subject and finance it in foreign currency, in euros, the interest cost would be very close to zero at the moment. Of course, the threat of success would swing toward the time of the budget. But I am absolutely convinced that we would do a great deal of good for our country by setting up a debt of financing, such as this, driving a lot of initiative and making it more efficient transportation systems, and improving the subsidies of the loans by means of shades or other means of success. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I apologize, Mr. President, for having been too long to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u3	Borist has received a letter from the procurator of the Independence Party. 5th a.m. Southwestern district, Jón Gunnarsson, will be absent in the near future. So today, at the General Assembly as his deputy, Special Agent 1 of the Independence Party list, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u4	The president considers an agreement that could last longer today, but the Senate dictates that no comment is made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u5	The president expects votes on the events that will be discussed at dinner break today or so. They have strong hopes that it might turn out to be two thousand and a half. This will be the most important part of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u6	President. Nearly 40 years ago, Vilmundur Gylfason told of the watchdogs of power and their methods of restraining rebels and criticism. Not much has changed since then. Our efforts in the smaller part of the administration and monitoring committees to play the surveillance role of the Committee have only given the greater reason for the abuse of power and nonstop attacks. The most important example of this is how the majority of the item stands in the way of taking the initiative at the highest level. Sea digor, but the highest. The prime minister calls that a good result. In this way, the majority are setting a dangerous example and a weak monitoring role by the European Commission. But to justify this quest, a greater part of the Committee chooses to drag my character down to the area and use me as a scapegoat. This methodology, to shoot the messenger, when it was known to be a plot of terror and oppression. I object to this mission. I resented this play, and I'm not going to be a part of it anymore. The majority must find other pretexts to justify the role of the Committee and the Council. My prehumanity in this committee is now over.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u7	A respectable president. A general assembly is by nature a battle scene. We here speak for different viewpoints, different ideals, and different interests. Then there's something important, all that matters is that we can show one another minimalness, that we respect certain rules of communication, certain rules in human relationships, that we have general tact. But there has been a lack of luck. Board of Directors and Control Committee. The Chairman, what? paritaprevir Thorhman Ævarsdóttir Övarsdotir, has been making it very difficult for her work within the committee, and I show full understanding that she has now decided to do. I'm sorry for her. I'm gonna miss her. [[The president calls.]] I hope we ever get to a place where she can be president again. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u8	A respectable president. I can say as an executive on the Board and Control Committee that this is regrettable. Ævarsdóttir This is an understandable decision from the chairman of the Council. I entered the committee in the middle of winter, and when there was a tangible atmosphere of distrust in the committee. As the senator described earlier, the greater part had new steps to undermine her leadership on the committee. There is so little to say but that I hope that the president will take this into account when considering the work of the General and how to work here, how to undermine the memory of the section in the committees of the council and not always on a complex basis, where the smaller parts are entrusted with that role, often only by the name, appear to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u9	President. From my experience as chairman of committees and council leader I wondered about it, and I raise the question here, whether it is different with women in positions of authority than with men. I have had to endure attacks and what I would classify as spiritual violence when I have shed light on subjects that have been unpleasant to most of them. I've been treated in a way that I don't think would be done if I was a man. Of course, I can't say anything about this. I've never been a man of authority. But I find it important to ask the question in the hope that it will encourage some sort of self - examination and discussion of the violent culture that thrives in this workplace, which I have felt since I stepped in here and dyeed all our work, and which is the main focus of this culture and how we treat one another. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u10	A respectable president. It's news, and it raises questions. I am a new member of the Committee, but I believe that, and I think we should all be, that the Commission and Control Committee is an important tool of the Council that deals with the announcements and reports of the Council's Office and Government Review, has the initiative to investigate individual Ministers' decisions and procedures, making suggestions on when it is right to appoint a research committee, etc. and gives the council opinions on their reports. It makes sense that our assignments are difficult. They are political sensitive assignments, obviously political important, and political development is needed in order for the committee to care for their assignments. It's a sobering thought, and I hope that we all feel that we are now watching the Chairman of the Committee that she doesn't think she has time to care for those tasks and that it's her experience that anyone would lie against it. It is sobering to think about the state of the council if a business effort is made to weaken the committee of important jobs and to consider the whole community. [[The president calls.]] I certainly hope that all of us in this room, including the government, will not take lightly what is happening here and have the power to discuss why that happens and what the consequences may be. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u11	Mr. President. I, like all of you, are probably asked how I feel about working at this place where there's so much conflict. So I have answered, as I suppose very many of you, that the public image of the General is primarily when we're fighting up here in Pontu, that's the picture shown. I'm sure we're going to take this really hard, and I think it's all right. We do so here in public, and it's all written down. However, I feel very sad to hear what we are hearing right now. You see, most of us are lucky to work on committees of considerable peace and good health, although we do not necessarily share a vision. Therefore, I must speak to the President of II and others about the matter, that it may be thoroughly considered in a way that can be fixed. Because this, of course, is very sad news. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u12	V.E.G. President. I can't talk and come up here. What I have seen in this committee is not being different from other committees. There has been distrust, and it has been on both sides, especially from smaller parts to more parts. In view of the fact that the memory part talked about other committees and members of Congress in them, I can't agree with it at all. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u13	Mr. President. Such news is indeed of great interest to you. I feel sorry for what I'm doing. paritaprevir Thorhjörn Sunna Ævarsdóttir, for this cannot have been an easy decision to make. How unacceptable it must be that an atmosphere within the Senate committee is so that a chairman did not rely on him to continue his work! It cannot be seen at the council, the General Assembly of the Icelanders, that a committee as important as a board of administration and monitoring committees are at this site in communication. I want to challenge the president to look at what has happened here. It's not okay, Mr. President. And as I said, this is not acceptable for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u14	A respectable president. I'm an example, I think, of how women are treated differently than men if we take an example of the protocol that was here some time ago. I'll be there every time I walk up the stairs out front. There's a big sign coming up on the stairs at the moment, with the permission of a president: Of course, the first women, the pioneers, are affected only because they are women, but they must not be set in their place. When women are increased in the Allied Council of the Icelanders, the attack of them, especially by the fact that they are women, disappears. So said Ingibjörg H. Bjarnason, and those words still apply. They did not disappear, their words did not disappear, and their attacks did not disappear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u15	A respectable president. It seems now that there is a rule that upset committees, that is, rather, an incomprehensible phenomenon. Even on a committee, where there is a total agreement on working on good business and working in a wonderful way, everything goes off at the end. And on that committee there is a woman in power, i.e. The welfare committee. It seems like there's some kind of bullying around here, and he's ashamed of committees over something that I don't get sometimes, which just doesn't matter. Can't we work together in here? Is it impossible for us to act like men?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u16	A respectable president. This explodes in our faces old materials, the inherents, the brutal and cultural forms of communication that have been practiced here and that are inconspicuous of chapters, even presumptuous. We are not trying to cope. We are to deal with matters, but when the conflict takes over and becomes personal, it is a matter of life. Here's what we've got. All members of Parliament work to do, and the council is about to face this and will do so in the near future. This is included in that discussion. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen asked: "Is it different with women who run committees, or in general at the council, than with men? This question must be considered and answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u17	A respectable president. All I'm saying is that I'm very sad. I'm just saying that I've had a shock over the fact that this young, promising woman, who has directed a administrative and surveillance committee of the sharpness I've had as an officer, the rarest I've had the opportunity to attend this committee, should be moved to stand aside. We have just had a black report on how we feel at work, how too many people feel about their work here. Not good. How so? With all kinds of bullying and violence, the less part has been oppressed under the greater part. That is exactly where it is from elsewhere. But that this exemplary young woman, as chairman of the Commission and Commission committee, is compelled to step aside, is more than a judgment against us who work here at the high Council. I'm sad that it's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u18	A respectable president. I just want to make it clear that I'm protesting a certain case here, i.e. that my character is unremarkable to some point when the committee tries to look after its own role. I won't be a part of it. I don't give you that. I'm not offering you this bowl dress. I'm not offering that the rest of the thing has some covert to exploit me and my character to avoid the role of the Commission. I just want it to be perfectly clear that there is a objection to this methodology, and to show that this committee and her work are far more important than the one I'm about to leave this office for protest purposes, and that those who made it suffer shame. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u19	President. When a board of directors and patrols was set up, Norway was seen. They looked forward to what was done there and worked hard to change the ways of the council, which may have been the case. The left green and the Conspiracy participated in, i.e. That government started this case and landed it. This is not when the head of the Committee, or a quarter of the committee, introduced as minor protection, is working to supervise the executive role of the Commission - which is absolutely clear to the role - that means calling for a minister. The report on the case says that the most important issues to be identified are the review of the council and the Minister's administration, the most critical of all, of the reviews of the review board. It happens first and foremost there. It says that the main task of the Committee is to monitor the Commission and, by permission of the president: ◯... have a large initiative in the surveillance of the Council with the European Commission. It specifically includes calling a minister and asking if there are disagreements. That is exactly what they are doing, and the government has to take it to heart. [[The president calls.]] The reign of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir must take to heart that such conduct will not be tolerated, i.e. the conduct of the Directorates of the Commission and Control Committee, which must be capable of performing its surveillance role with counsellers, the Commission. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u20	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers, Ministers of Social and Juvenile Affairs, Environment and Resource Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u21	A respectable president. At midnight, the limit of travel was greatly reduced, so passengers who arrive in the country have a choice between screening and in a two - week district. The work process will be revised after two weeks, from what I understand, which is just very nice. However, it will continue to be noted that the most important thing to do is to continue to care for health issues and to care for the health system, which I deeply agree with. Yet, there is one threat the surgeon has said that the screens will upset, and this is the imminent strike of nurses. Their last battle ended five years ago with a legal arrangement and a judicial decision, and we are in the same situation today. Unable to negotiate with nurses, a strike has been announced again in a few days. The news reports this week made it clear that nurses could only lose themselves when it was time to do the work of a sample due to Covid. Others can take care of it, said someone. Then there are the words of nurses who express themselves completely out of context. We all know that there were nurses, along with other health care professionals, who carried the burden of demonstrations in addition to caring for national and national programs and health care programs when Covid was riding over the nation. This may seem a cold message to our advance. Five years ago, on June 15, 2015, it was the highest. Prime Minister in this same necklace, then in my section. Then there had been a law set on nurses' strike. V.E.G. The prime minister then asked which cards the government could issue in order to meet the needs of nurses. There, Senator Katrín spoke to the daughter of Jakobsdóttir about the need for continued peace of work within the medical system. So, Mr. President, I would like to make a word. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter asked me, " What will be the contribution of the government to solve this urgent health problem? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for making a subject for nurses and the dispute. First, I want to say: I don't think anyone on the part of the government has spoken that they can understand that nurses can lose themselves. I know what to say. A senator is showing, and I believe they were unfortunate. I think we're all the people who hold on to screens on the border very aware of the important roles of nurses and other health - care groups involved, just to be said here at the outset. Those words are not to be understood. Today, there is a contract meeting, and there is a week to achieve collective agreements before a strike. Of course, I hope that people will get together before that time. It's not only about screening on the border, which is a major factor in this, but it's about our health. The contract was signed earlier this year, which was highly paid for by voters. And because of what? A senator asks about what I mentioned here five years ago, and I think there has been a huge improvement, including: in the existing contracts, and especially with regard to the terms of the ideal shift work groups. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must agree that the current system change to form in agreement with other health - care professions involved in reducing the stress of shift workers is one of the major system changes in the time of health care professionals who need to be watched for decades. Also, these treaties included many other developments. But as we have seen in the media, it is still the pay force that stands out, and there the negotiation committees set out a week to achieve negotiations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u23	A respectable president. We are aware that by opening people's influxs to the country again, we are taking a particular risk aware that the hearts of nurses are infested. It is harder than ever, and it will reach a climax in the next few days with a reported strike. We are aware that the turn of relapse can have a significant effect in autumn, both economic and as good as health. This is where it all counts, because there's a stage film, that's a plan. I don't think that's fair enough. It seems that some kind of pattern is being drawn up. The Independence Party, also at the Ministry of Economic Affairs five years ago, cannot establish a contract with as large as important women and nurses. I ask the prime minister: " Time has not come for me to begin. ' In view of the situation in history, does the prime minister take the lead and take full advantage of the rightness of women's classes? I'd like to remind her of the proposal that the government should take the lead in improving the interests of women's classes. It is time for us to see the government's leadership in that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u24	Mr. President. A few weeks or months ago, there was a deal with large women's groups of BSRBs. I mention to make a sick person, another extremely important health class and a prominent female class. In fact, contracts have been completed with the majority of government unions, about 80% of government employees. There are a number of women's classes, with more than half women as Kingdom workers. On the other hand, I think that's what we're doing. A senator should not belittle when real system changes within collective agreements are achieved, such as changes in shift work arrangements, which I consider to be the most important changes we see in these contracts. It is about living, working time, and the quality of life of those who need to be watched. Of course, reaching collective agreements will always be a complicated matter. That's what those sitting at the bargaining table know, especially when we're working within the light of the biographies agreements, as we have done in all our agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u25	A respectable president. The government now speaks of opening the border. If they are being opened now, they must have been closed before, or what? Is it just a misunderstanding to think that the country was shut down except for those who came here on a major job issue? Here we have the Icelandic government, which doesn't seem to know if they're coming or going. They meet themselves at the door, say they're now opening the border. But they were never closed, were they? I'd like to reflect on this: How did a group of crowners escape into the country where he lived for days? In the next two weeks, there are 16 Icelandic police officers left uninhabited. Similarly, two cab drivers will have had to go under a lot of stress. We do not know where these individuals have gone, whom they have met. We don't know if they've been transmitting people around here for days. What information did these people give, e.g. ... whentheycomeinland? Is there no need for information? Romania is not in Schengen. Why didn't what you planned to do be Schengen's surveillance system? Was it not a border police to check these people's papers, or what papers did they need to publish? No one? Or passports, testimony that they were here to serve? A respectable president. I want a public investigation of this matter to be conducted, and I want to see what has really happened and what has been wrong in this particular case. Our credibility is at stake, now that we are trying to follow the path to normal conditions. So I ask the highest. Minister of Justice: Does she know what went wrong, and why? Would the minister of justice consider that this case, how the Romanians got into the country, and how they acted out as if it were evidence, will be investigated?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u26	A respectable president. I don't think it's quite as vague as that of a dog. A senator wants to be left alone. The country was not closed, but we are opening it more by offering a screen. It can hardly be claimed that the land is very open if conditions arise for 14 days of infection. At least it's not open to tourists who want to stay on this country for less than two weeks. It says that we're opening up the country more because we're inviting both Icelanders and others who come here for screening and then being able to bring people in more freer than ever before. Hv. A senator focuses his attention on the matter raised. That's right, Romania isn't in Schengen, but neither did humans come from there. The tourists from other regions come here from countries within the Schengen area. Of course, this is checked, as is true of others. It was directed to the men to go under siege, and it is mandatory, but those rules were broken. In this outstanding case, infectious agents will be tested for the need for contaminating others. But because the screening began today, there was also a change in outdoors on the script on those coming to the country. Now, information about passengers is going directly to the so - called anti-infective dating database. There is also much more detailed information on those coming here, both those who choose to get a sample and those who choose to be taken, so this change in literature is also clearer, to dismiss those who do not respect the risk of going to an environment, i.e. those who have chosen to be infected rather than screened but then fail to respect it when they arrive in the country. However, the police will monitor whether or not the regulations of the environment are followed and also the trace team will call all parties to see if they comply with these rules. Moreover, time will reveal what measures might need to be taken. [[The president calls.]] We're going a very important way. We're gonna register better, we're gonna have more outdoors than this weekend. But I don't see that something has gone very wrong in this case. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is very serious that our prominent employees, a large part of the Southland police, are now under siege. [[The president calls.]] But we're going to fail, and I've had a conversation with the chief of police about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the answer. But how sad I am if she says that nothing has gone wrong! In terms of this gang of crime, I felt that everything went wrong because they came to the country when we had not cleared the rules to the highest degree. The Minister of Justice pointed out that we had done this day. That is why I wanted the answer to the question, What was done at that time? Didn't they have to return any data? They did not have to prove that they were coming for, for example. Flavour B to work here? They didn't have to return anything? Did they just walk into our society as if it weren't for tomorrow? That's what happened, the highest. Minister of Justice? I just want to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u28	A respectable president. Yes, those who come and travel within the Schengen area have been able to do so. We've never shut down our inner borders, as many countries have done, but recently we directed, when the curve began to go down, the recommendation to all who came here, and set it as a requirement for people to go for a 14 - day bed. On that basis, these people came here in the open area, they were going to take a tour, but they didn't, and that's why the arrangements people have seen were taken. We're part of an international environment. We live here are people from other countries. We want it and should respect it. Now we welcome the party. Of course, the individual's freedom is part of a democratic society, and we trust one another. Of course, something special may arise, and then we must respond to it. But that does not mean that we should close the border again. Rather, we are going to cut off all the restrictions, along with the protection and control of the virus that we have achieved by preventing it from spreading. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u29	Mr. President. Recently, the Central Party had special discussions here at the council on defense projects in the Southnes. The occasion was heard that the minister of foreign affairs had proposed to the Minister on the Government budget nearly 1.5 billion. It would be devoted to reform at the harbor in Helguvík and implementing up to 300 million. K. a residence in the security area of Cheflavík would be quick. The appointment of the minister was refused. I'd like to take it down a little bit in a minister's speech that was fine, by permission of the president: Iceland's policy as an armyless nation cannot be guaranteed without active participation in the Atlantic Alliance and the defence agreement with the United States. It's a guide that I've raised further projects with the security area at the Cheflavour Airport, including Helguvík. A cumulative need for maintenance and restoration is high, and now is the time for me to carry out such projects, since most of these projects are expected to be funded by our allies. Icelanders cannot expect alliances to fulfill their commitments if we do not guarantee minimum reserves. That's what I said. Minister in a special discussion. In that discussion, then, the minister did not answer the overall scope of the project. So I want to pray to the highest. Minister to inform the council on this matter. Iceland's contribution is in place. That's almost 1.5 billion. What is the contribution of NATO and our allies, the largest part, as the minister said in his speech?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's request, as well as for reading from my talk, which I thought was a good example, and I thought it was just a good rule for me to have a bad time here. Councilmen and read my speeches. I couldn't agree more. A senator said it was an excellent speech. But at this point, I don't really know what to add except for what to do with it. A senator, and I'm not making fun of it, drew up, who were the main points of the matter. In view of the unique development of these issues, we can say that this is a case of several defences, well over 100, large or largely funded by the Atlantic alliance and the two - sided defense agreement with the United States. Like what? A senator had to put up with them, and there has been no maintenance of these acts for a very long time. Happily, though, we see more maintenance than we have seen for decades. Here we're only talking about when it comes to the security area, and then what. A senator has to forgive that I don't have those numbers in front of me, maybe 12-114 billion bucks, something like that. We are also fortunate in that although it is true not to mix economic and protective issues, it does not change that it is better for us that these activities are being carried out now than during therapy. But we took care of this, if I recall correctly, a respectable president, a special discussion. There I tried to answer the queries that were directed to me. If there's anything more specific about it, I'm happy about it, and I'm glad we're doing it in the Senate Hall. But the big movie is this, like a dog. A senator showed that it is time for the maintenance of various defenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u31	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I want, by permission of the President, to sit down in the speech of the Supreme Court. Minister in the special discussion in which he says about the proposed projects: They are all in agreement with national security policies that require to ensure that the country has a defence mechanism to meet the challenges Iceland faces on security and protection and to meet the international commitments of Iceland. V.E.G. Minister has informed us that the project is fully in harmony with national security policy. The project, however, was rejected by the Ministry Committee. The government has committed itself to complying with national security policy. By permission of the president, the government covenant stated: The government emphasizes that the national security issues are on a firm hold. Iceland's national security policy, agreed by the General Assembly, will be guided. Obviously, by rejecting a minister's suggestion, the national security policy, which is a serious matter, is not being followed by the government covenant. [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is the national security issue on a firm basis when the government rejects a foreign minister's proposal and does not follow national security policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u32	A respectable president. To answer that. A senator whether the government is enforcing national security policy is a simple answer: Of course, the national security policy is not written down in its unique structure or maintenance, but if we use the standard of government in which governments have become the most effective defenders, this government will stand out completely and will not compete in recent decades. On the other hand, it's just ahead of us, like a cot. A senator drew out, and it sees each man, with a lot of these defense action, which are certainly used, and we feel absolutely certain, for civilian projects, whether port or fibre or whatever else, that the need for maintenance is better met, as I mentioned. But there is the possibility that these structures are exactly like all others, if not maintained, the need for maintenance builds up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u33	Mr. President. One of Iceland's biggest problems now is unemployment, unemployment and unemployment. Surprisingly, ministers and the media do not discuss this problem more and more. The number of jobs made by governments or lost by economic policies is often referred to in the country. On this government watch, some 15,000 jobs have now been lost, but virtually no job has developed. Another 20,000 Icelanders have lost part of their job. There's never been numbers like this before. Of course, Covid is the main cause, but the greater reason for the government to demonstrate that new jobs are created against lost persons. Why, then, does the government place 75% of all its actions in just two operations, unemployment improvements, and subsidies? I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Where are the jobs created by that government? Where's the money going to make a living? Let me remind the Minister that only 5% of her operations will be made new. At the beginning of this crisis, I suggested that we increase the number of public jobs that all the other nations now perform and have experienced a crisis. That idea was described as the worst idea ever for a minister of finance, the highest. The prime minister described a word of speech as the best colleague the prime minister has ever had. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is she willing to agree with the secretary of finance that we are not expected to expand our public service? A very clear question. Now there is just one week left in the council, but the fall will suck for the tens of thousands of people who fall to 290,000. basic non-employment. Does a minister trust himself to live on that amount, and if not, why would she suggest an increase in the sum? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Madam Minister, where are your new jobs?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. The candidate for the inquiry that's interesting to consider. Hv. A senator comes up here and says: "On the watch of this government, it became a state of unemployment. He adds: True, a pandemic, which is actually reducing the economy of the entire Western world, was on the watch of that government. It's cute, I like it when it comes to it. A senator speaks this way. On the other hand, I agree with what. A senator says that unemployment is our greatest problem. There must be action, and action has indeed been taken. The government's section-work route, as well as the government's approximately Of course, 36,000 people took advantage of the most important procedure to maintain employment relations and ensure that fewer jobs were lost. Supporting companies to pay their pay on notice, ensuring that their employees' interest will be employed while they can hopefully go through a rapid restructuring process - and I hope that the bill will be the highest level. The Ministry of Economic Reorganization will be completed until later at the General for it to be possible - another operation designed to get the job started more quickly. Seems a bit small. A senator has forgotten 20 billion in public investments this year. Similarly, the government has proclaimed that there will be a continuing trend in which we are talking about investments, certainly in traditional sectors such as transport edifices, but also large investments in basic research, technology, and increased support for innovation companies. A senator may belittle. There are huge steps that have been taken during this term period to further this development, both with further reimbursement but also with direct support through the Krea's Neon Fund and Technical Development Fund. All of this will create jobs and it will be on the watch of this government, which we will see as the unemployment statistics decline. [[The president calls.]] They're already shrinking, and it's important how we keep our cards so that they can continue to shrink. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u35	Mr. President. Despite these actions, prime minister is predicted to have increased unemployment during the fall, and the minister should know this. The increase in job projects is only around a 2% increase in domestic spending. 2% to face the deepest crisis for 100 years, and the innovation is only 5% of the total surgery. We're supposed to put much more into innovation to strengthen the private effort. Why is this not done? Why is it going down to the highest level? A minister's proposal to place extra money in innovation? Mr. President. It was painful to have this government in good health, but it is worse to live with it in a crisis, and as a prime minister, we are in the process. All right, but it has been called upon to investigate the economics after the storm calms down, as we did after the collapse of the bank. The decisions are now made that involve tens of millions of dollars of taxpayers and make decisions as to which companies live and which companies die. So I would like to add a basic question and ask a minister if it is available to confirm here and now whether her government's economic activities will be reviewed by an independent body or not. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u36	Mr. President. I don't agree with what. A senator wrote about his illustration of the collapse of the bank. We are in a very different place, and this crisis is quite different. I would've thought what. A senator would understand this, as he was now sitting at this council in the face of the economic crisis, and he knows exactly why that was under attack. However, these are emergency operations to deal with completely unpredictable conditions that no one has provided except perhaps at times. Councilmen of the Union, I won't tell you. We are taking action that is short - term and not only this year, as noted; 20 billion in investment were added to the public investment that was up to 74 billion for these unneeded situations. So when it happened. A senator comes to a previous inquiry with ideas that we are preventing the use of public funds, not only to promote the public but also to promote employment in the private sector, it is only wrong. [[The president calls.]] That's wrong. The big job is to reduce unemployment and all that we've been doing has to do with it. [[The president calls.]] Both emergency procedures and long - term operations need to be taken, such as building innovation, and I would have thought that we would have what we needed. A senator agrees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u37	President. We were able to rely on nurses to support us in dealing with the epidemic, despite the fact that many nurses do not function as such. Now we need to trust nurses that after the country opened today, they are still ready to put themselves in jeopardy for us. With more nurses in the front line, it is safer to open the country and get more tourists. With more nurses in the front line, it will take less to peel the curve if Covid flares up again. Having more nurses in the front line is economic and national security. There is a shortage of active nurses, and he was meant to be. Nurses have been uncontracted for 15 months. After seven years without an acceptable agreement, after five years from the law forbidding their strike so 10% quit, after three years of a contract which was forced by the court and after putting themselves at risk in the front of the Covid pandemic, nurses saw themselves forced to perform a strike. This is a shameful situation, i.e. if they are not offered a deal they can accept. There are three ways in which we can do this, a successful way, a reckless way, and a disastrous way. The successful way is to avoid the strike by contracts that nurses can approve and get them on the front line because there are plenty of educated nurses in the country. The obvious way is by allowing the strike to hang up and then to negotiate, as well as the dangerous way to put back a law against nurses'strikes with the anticipated escape from the profession. Katrín Jakobsdóttir, chief. Prime Minister, may not be able to force Secretary Bjarni Benediktsson to negotiate, but we need to know this: Had she tied herself and left green to accept the law of strikes, including: Nurses, if the secretary of finance refuses to offer contracts that could be approved by nurses? [[The president calls.]] We need to know this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for both the diagnosis and the inquiry. Maybe I should ask you what. In my time as prime minister, a senator has set many laws on strikes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u39	You've done well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u40	Thank you, man. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, who I would have thought. A senator may have detected a tendency in these statistics, just as he was identifying different ways here. I just want to thank you. A senator for bringing this up, and as I came before in my answer to what. paritaprevir Of course, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir is complex, as we all know. I hope for that, and I strongly suggest that people get together before a strike strikes. I reviewed what's been worked on, including changes in the shift work program, covering all shift classes, and then there are more specific factors that have been involved in the very good conversation of these clauses. I have found reasons to mention the fact that although the last bargain agreement was taken in votes, these negotiation committees have had a very good conversation. It gives me hope that you will be able to get together. It was close when the BSRB member organisations had reported a strike but were combined in final meters. But it is so, as I also mentioned earlier, that we always work in accordance with the guidelines placed in the biographies agreements, and why are we doing so? Yes, because it is important that we achieve this overall view in the Icelandic labour market, that we are working under the same public and public guide. Thus we will achieve this long - term relationship that we have long hoped to achieve in an Icelandic labour market. We have a number of lessons to learn from our neighbors in the matters that I think are important to us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u41	President. That was the closest thing to an answer. V.E.G. The prime minister told me to consider that there were no laws against strikes in her time, and perhaps I should read what the will is. That was the closest thing to an answer. Still, it would be great to have a real answer. It is, in effect, just telling the people what is in the government covenant, and this would not be the case. You can answer that, if you put it clearly on the table, so that secretary of finance can see that he doesn't have the weapon in the money box to carry nurses back to obedience and to conduct and must negotiate, just as nurses have to negotiate. Then it's clear and on the table. With my biographer contract, I have to point the highest point. Prime Ministers reports that the president of the VR, the largest union, and the management, has been quite clear: the better results of others will not affect our review in the autumn of the biography agreement. It's quite clear from Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson that the biographer contract isn't underneath. [[The president calls.]] It is the pay force that stands out, that is, the need to be fixed, and the government's commission is lacking. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I know that a prime minister cannot expand his office there because of the highest authority. The secretary of finance, who has power, says that she will not participate in making laws on strikes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In any case, she can say that she is not going to participate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. Just as we evaluate each other's answers, we also evaluate the questions. I can confirm what has happened in the past that it has not been recommended to legalize possible strike operations, rather than any other strike action that has previously been discussed in this term. It hasn't even been discussed. Of course, this matter of agreement with health - care professionals is complex, and I want to mention it specifically, for that is the case. A senator mentioned a lack of important good news last week when a health - and - education minister's decision was announced that there would be a 40 - percent increase in nursing school both at the University of Akureyri and at the University of Iceland, as well as a new study at a professional college for medical staff that I think is a real joy. This is all a harmony when talking about working conditions and terms, how we live in educations of different classes, how we live to form what I mentioned in the previous answers about hours and then, of course, the reward. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, I reiterate that the U.S. Convention Committee is absolutely focused on this project, such as the Gaming Committee of Nurses, to try to get together in the preceding week. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u43	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you a question to the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs on the stock loans. That subject is now under discussion and on a committee. My concern is that residents, low - income workers, in the less populated areas of the country where no one seems to be building a new home, do not have as much money as people who have access to this resources, which is certainly very good and needed, that the state will be involved in the first purchases. This adds to the potential for less - income families to have their own home, and it helps young ones to find a comfortable home. But my concern is that since sharing loans are limited to new buildings, there will not be the possibility of investing in a new building in many territories across a country where there is probably no great basis for building such a house or that relevant persons will have the opportunity to build themselves. I would like to be checked on the committee to see that some percentage was available to these areas, perhaps by a built - up map over which a body map would be employed, or to increase the share of loans obtained in those areas. I feel that there will be equal justice among the earnings of the poor, wherever they live in the country, in these resources, which are certainly very good and needed, and is part of the biography agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for this inquiry. We share the view that, in general, housing measures do not have enough attention to the region. With regard to the stock loan, I say in the beginning, if the senator or the committee wants to sharpen these laws against the country's settlement, the social minister is the first to support them. However, I think that at the same time it must be examined, and I encourage the committee to do so, in the context of other measures we have been taking in, especially with regard to the country this past year, let's say. We started an operation that even involved it. in that they put higher contributions into the general housing system involved in building public apartments in the country, because they were missing into that bill at the time a special tenet of the country, as well as special national settlement loans designed specifically for building up abroad, when financial institutions had rejected structure on the grounds that it was cold territory or market worth less than the cost of building. It is fun to say that these loans have moved into the market and build up on land. I think it's in the range of 70-580 apartments that have been built on the basis of these loans. There's another one in the pipes, and I hear this is starting to build up all around the country. Then the share loans can come along with such loans. So as soon as I say I'm very positive that the committee looked at whether a higher percentage of certain areas or an earmark or something, I'm not necessarily sure that it's the bottleneck because I believe that the interaction of other activities that we've been planning will make the share loans a fortune to build up in the country like in the capital area. But so I reiterate it; the minister is not opposed to it, but to the very extent that there is a sharpness of action on the territory of housing and that it will be done on this bill as well as on other housing issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u45	Mr. President. It is good for a minister to be optimistic about the possibility that other options that have been started, rented apartments, and so - called national loans, which I do not know exactly if there is much experience or who is offering so far can play together. They would need to explain further the possibility, feel, in the report and on the work of the Committee how this could happen. But I'm talking about the areas that haven't been built for years, and people who live where they're interested in buying older housing because they don't see fit to build houses, whether in the general rental system or by sharing loans. That they have a chance to buy old homes and live in places where they want to live, but they will not be sucked at urban areas on these grounds. That would be a very bad development.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u46	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator would not want this to cause people to be sucked off the coast into the capital. There the national loans are playing into and have been built in all the ideals, all around the country, this past year. We are also to make sure that we do not tell the country that we are not going to bridge the gap so that it will not be built. We need to think that it is motivated to build because we want more built on land. It's nice to see that last month and last year, they've been built to form in Isafjordur and Susavík. Building facilities that have not been built for a long time, including to the national loans available for rejection by other financial institutions. But at the same time, I say, the intervening agreement can truly be considered, and I am a spokesman for doing all we can to strengthen the country's territory and build up around the country, that is not just important to the country's settlement, but it's national interest. I encourage the senator on the committee and pledge to be a helper in that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u47	Mr. President. I may come up here feeling a little sad after a discussion that took place at the beginning of a meeting for the state of the council and for the members of the Parliament, members of the Council. I am deeply concerned with the culture that has progressed deeply as this term has passed. I challenge the president of the Parliament to do all he can to speak with members of the council, to try hard to minimize mobbing and antisocial behavior on the Synod committees. [[The president calls.]] It's incredibly sad, and it was sad that no minister in Iceland's government came up and expressed his opinion on this matter. I'm very thinking about the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u48	Mr. President. As a feminist here at the council, I have to admit that it is sad to hear that a woman who is a member of the Committee to conduct a case directed against her person. Women in my part come up here talking about humiliating conduct against women. I'd like to remind you of D-jork 5. Councilmen's moral standards, which all members signed, are rejected by harassment and other disrespectful conduct as well as by the 8th corps. The Code. I'm the highest. A president to dig into this case. The prime committee, too. It would also be nice to hear the explanation of the male senators of the greater part of the administration and monitoring committee on the state of affairs and on how these statements are being carried out and whether these claims from the leading president of the Committee are relevant to some evidence. This discussion is missing. [[The president calls.]] I wish to hear it, whether it is in this field or anyone else. Other than that, I'm the highest. A president to dig into this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u49	The president has heard what has been done here, past and present.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u50	A respectable president. I present a panel of members from a greater part of the General and Education Committee on a bill for temporary permission to reorganize employment companies. The Committee has discussed the case and received to its meeting Bryndís Ólöf Marín Gunnarsson the National Þorvaldur of Justice, Úlfarsdóttir Magnússon Bergur and Steinarsson Dagbjört Einarsdóttir Þórðardóttir S. Benediktsson of the Ólafur of Justice, Káradóttir Stefánsdóttir Drífa Kjörnarðsson of the Industrial Society, Kristján Geir of the United Karlsson, Jógnarfjörðurfjörður Benedikt of the United Kingdom, Gylfi of Bjarni United Kingdom, Brynjar of the Torfason Kingdom, Þorláksson and Elís Jón Ása of Sigmundsson, from the United KingdomÓlafsdóttir. The Committee received reviews from ADVEL legislators, Iceland's Common Community, Iceland's Economic and Risk Management Centres, the city's stakeholders of real estate in the US Association of Shopping and Service, the National Association of Pension, Iceland's Police Association, the Neythal Association, the Communicates of Financial Corporations, and Iceland's Business Council. Then came the Commission's joint review of the Association of Employment, the Association of Tourism, the Industrial Society, and the Little Iceland. The bill suggests the establishment of new resources, temporary permission for the economic restructuring of the industry due to the conditions that have developed following the Covid-19 epidemic that began here in February. At the same time, permanent changes are provided in the laws on bankruptcy, etc., No. 21/1191, in terms of forced agreements and the right effects of forced agreements. Two. The bill provides the conditions that must be available in order to agree to a request for permission for financial restructuring according to the regulations of the bill. Furthermore, the causes of the problem with the law are attributed to the Covid-19 epidemic and not to other causes that are not related to it, such as 1st. The committee gave a perspective on the need to resort to abuse of such measures. On the other hand, it would be normal to provide temporary shelter for companies to process the epidemic's impact on their business when other resources fail to function. There was a view that the requirements need to be more clearly and specifically that economic problems are caused by the epidemic, in order to form enterprises which are underdeveloped by public costs or are not operating properly, before the impact of measures to reduce the spread of the pandemic is allowed to apply for the resources, as well as if the companies are not able to manage the epidemic. The majority of the rights to the target of the bill are that most employment companies can, by simple and efficient means, get safety to reorganize their business during this situation and when companies earn only due to sudden and external events that are not linked to their operation. The majority of the enterprise thus feels that the conditions should not be too heavy or too narrow in these areas, so that an enterprise has room to evaluate how the company should function and its potential for dealing with business problems. Then the majority point out that according to Article 7. The bill should take into account an unfounded position on a request for permission for financial reorganization. It also involves the law. to which case the request should be denied. In addition, an assistant is required to examine the borrower's interests by prisons in order to standardise information that he provided in the collection of sources for financial restructuring, as stated in Article 17. In view of the greater part, an above-defined arrangement should be implemented including to avoid misuse of the resources. It's 2nd count, paragraph 2. The bill should have started on December 1, 2019 as soon as the debt's work began. Commenting on the need for such a time point, other conditions of the bill exclude the non-employable enterprises. There are no special reasons why this time is at this time point or if there is an assessment of how this limitation affects the resource. The majority feel that the current criteria are explained. The time point for starting job activities is based on the date and time of work, i.e. when a partner starts to earn money, start a debt, or make a similar arrangement, but not when a society is registered for a different timelines. So the majority do not consider that to be a reason to remove this condition. According to Article 1. And number 3 of y'all, y'all. The bill has to be a bailiff and has paid more than one person in the course of December 2019 to February 2020. In addition, a report with the bill shows that it is not expected that those who run jobs on their own social security number or that a firm can apply for access to financial restructuring. However, it is to be careful that they are available as early as any other means, such as according to guidelines on individual payment adjustments, No. 101/2010. In particular, the committee found comments on the lack of the ability of the dictator to take advantage of the options. The requirement, therefore, should be addressed to a legal entity that has paid one or more wages during the specified period. Then it was noted that concerned persons cannot also consult a credit agent for approval of a warrant application for remuneration in the case of employment. Thus, a significant number of people seem to fall between ships and docks. Of the measures taken by companies to meet income losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the part-improvement method has proved to be well-developed, but few dictators met the conditions to obtain a close-up grant. The majority of the data shows that it is not the end of a shot that the monotonous can apply for remuneration in accordance with one person's payment adjustment laws, No. 101/2010. However, the individual case needs to be evaluated, but there are strictly professional demands, although the individual's apart fees are clear. In this case, you will find a discussion about business people in a paper with a bill that became the law of No. 101/2010. That's where even the two of them come from. to emphasize the importance of enabling individuals to continue their business activities, which are designed to provide a realistic basis for a home for the future. Furthermore, it says that the bill is primarily intended for homemaking, but it is important to meet the circumstances of those who are involved in the household business. However, it is not the lawgiver's will that those who are primarily in trouble as a result of their professional success will take advantage of this strategy. In view of the above, it is evident that some part of the monopoly should be able to apply for remuneration to a credit agent of creditors and seek a contract for correction, to meet certain criteria. However, the majority are aware that these measures cannot be used by all persons in the business. However, there has been a view that it may be too complicated to allow monocytes who are operating on their own social security number to apply for the temporary resources recommended by the bill. Then there could be unexpected consequences if they did, preferably because of the credit price paid to all, regardless of whether their origin comes from a business or a home operation. Despite a high misunderstanding in such cases, however, the majority of the object feels that the monotonous who have formed a business partnership and therefore have a separate business can use the resources. In view of this, the greater part contributes to a change to Figure 3. the bill in such a way that a debtor paid one person or more in the course of December 2019 to February 2020, corresponding at least to the minimum wage for a full - time job in each of these months. Clearly, the change will not reach the unrecognized monotonous. Therefore, the majority of the rights are due to the importance of government ensuring that their situation is improved because of the economic impact the epidemic has had on their activities. It's the 4th count, paragraph 2. The bill is calculated by the contractions taken by means of monthly total income from March 1, 2020, by 75% or more. First, based on the reduction of income from March 1, 2020, 75 percent or more compared to the average of the months between December 2019 and February 2020, secondly, the recovery rate in the last three months prior to applying for treatment is reduced by at least 75 percent compared to the same month 2019 or third, it is estimated that the total amount of activity will be taken over the next three months after applying for at least 75 percent smaller compared with the same time in 2019. These three ways were considered. First, comments for the reference period of income loss were made according to the first route, i.e. March 1, 2020. It would be preferable to aim for the first drop in the income of an enterprise from March 15th, in view of the fact that the epidemic is most effective after that time. It would be unclear whether any other government options that have been used by an enterprise could affect whether an enterprise is eligible according to this approach. Many companies, including in trade and services, obtained several incomes during the month of March, and therefore this month does not provide a realistic picture of the amount of income that is right to be considered. Considering this, the larger portion suggests that the start date of the control period will be April 1 instead of March 1, 2020, which is also in accordance with Figure 2. law on government funds support due to payment of part of pay on notice, No. 50/2020. Second, comments were made on a third course of the law, but it does not explain how an enterprise can clearly demonstrate a predictable income loss, nor is there any question as to how many companies will likely take advantage of this route because of the seasonal fluctuations in their business. The majority of the budget is intended to meet the seasonal income enterprises. The majority believe that, in most cases, these companies should be able to demonstrate a predictable income drop, such as the falling of services books. Third, general comment was made on the requirement for the level of harvested revenues, including versus the so - called partial reforms, as stated by law No. 23/2020, (35%) and with budget support for less operators due to a pandemic crown virus, No. 38/2020 (40%). In addition, a view was found to provide principles other than contractures. In the treatment of the case, 75% of the criteria were to be included in the enterprises which have experienced significant functional and internal dysfunction. The majority see no reason to make a change in the set of criteria or to reference criteria other than decrease of income, but the context indicates that the same guidelines on government support are applied to pay a part of the pay period of notice. Finally, a greater proportion of the items suggests a change in set up of Figures 1.mg. Section 4. in that the period during which a business enterprise is permitted to aim for a new paragraph and list in the numbers. This change is intended for explanations and not to interfere with the rest of the law. It's the 5th count, paragraph 2. The bill shall sum up the estimated cost of operating and the debt that falls into debt over the next two years in debt is greater than the sum of the total value of its capital, its deposit, its stocks, and the charge of others. In the treatment of the situation, it was criticized that the conditions were too mild, since many companies will likely meet them. This does not reveal the time goal to meet the requirements. The majority of the measures are to evaluate whether an enterprise has sufficient funds to deliver the most likely surrender in most cases and then is based on financial restructuring. The majority agree that it is not a strict requirement but does not consider why to change it to the point that the company's financial problems will be proved even further. In the treatment of the problem, it was noted that it is desirable to build a law frame around the factors that need to be considered in the financial restructuring of the employment industry. In contrast, there may be more available sources of temporary law in Norway to look for financial reorganization, to form if creditors provide financial difficulties in the near future and then demands can also be taken initiative for such reorganization. Then there are the more abundant requirements for living through the requirements. In view of the above, it appears that in other parts of the North countries, similar measures are being taken as recommended in the bill. The greater part encourages the government to consider whether there is a need to adopt comparable sources and to find, for example. in the new EU legislation in Norway, especially if considered to make permanent changes in this area. The bill assumes that when applying for financial reorganization, an assistant owes him an assistant who is an attorney or a legal accountant who helps the debtor during the first three months of reorganization to cross the company and examine the possibility of or make free contracts with demands on payment. A wise debtor seeks to complete a financial renovation with a forced contract according to Article 20 or 21. before that he shall come to the province, and desire a man's commandment to oversee the search of forced agreements. The appointed maintainer should meet the XIII requirement. section on bankruptcy, etc. The Committee gave the opinion that an assistant's role should be comparable to that of an assistant on Article 10. Act of bankruptcy, et cetera. On the one hand, it would be preferable to say in paragraph 4. The bill that an assistant is hired to work on the part of a debt and that, in an assistant's declaration, an assistant should be made aware that he meets the requirements of 3.mg. 10th par. The law as if it were a premise in connection with requests for payment. In addition, the committee was advised that in the bill it does not seem to be expected that an assistant is entitled to a fee for his work from the creditor's hand but only to a appointed overseer, as spoken by Article 3. 14th par. ... andJewish19rd. At the same time, comments were made to the arrangement that the approval of an overseer was determined by the court, but so far, if due to the court's rules, it was considerably lower than the customary time paid by the attorneys and was not regularly revised in terms of prices. Then there are no reasons why the approval of an overseer should be different and lower than that of an assistant, including an overseer. in view that the responsibility of an overseer seems to be greater than that of an assistant. Then, if the same person is doing the work of an assistant and an overseer, a satisfaction on different grounds could cause problems to develop. Furthermore, this is the case at the decision of law-or-treating lawyers to 2 mg. 75. g. The constitution which states that the right to negotiate the remuneration and other work-related rights is to be agreed by law. In the context of the Law, see Figure 3 of the 2 mg. 14th par. is a welcome talk to an assistant, not to an appointed overseer. Thus, the majority of the material sets out to correct the procedure. At that time, the majority of the items contribute to the change that we have at 4. The bill adds to a new paragraph where an assistant is required to be hired on the part of a debt and to be an attorney or a legal accountant. In combination, changes to Figure 4 are provided in section 1.mg. Section 4. is consistent with the above changes. Then a appointed overseer has the right to a fee for his work, according to the progress and should be set according to the rules set by the Court. It is known that the approval of lawyers on certain jobs will take into account the rules given by the court's administration, according to the rules on the decision of the court's terms for signing an outdoor policy, No. 10/2018, and the rules of approval for defence and justice, No. 2/2020. The majority point is that this is a fixed procedure on the part of the courts. The bill then suggests that costs are expected to be maintained so that the options can serve their objective. In the treatment of the case, comments were made that an assistant will be one-sided and chosen by the legislators who are applying for financial reorganization and that less demands are made for assistants. We were concerned that this arrangement will lead to the failure of an assistant to be considered impartial in his work. Rather, an assistant should be appointed in the same manner as an overseer. Then there was the view that it was desirable for an assistant to be considered as an official businessman, as was the case with the appointed switcher, as was 3 mg. 77st. Act of bankruptcy, et cetera. The majority of the reasons why an enterprise has room to act quickly and employ an assistant of its own choice, which has knowledge of the business of debt so that financial reorganization can be started as soon as possible. Then it is likely that in many cases there will not be a need for overseers. The majority state that an assistant should meet the same criteria as an assistant to a credit center, as per 3 mg. 10th par. Act of bankruptcy, et cetera. That law includes. ............................................................................................... The majority do not consider that there is a greater need for an assistant to be qualified for financial reorganization than for an assistant who is qualified for payment. However, to be consistent with 3 mgr. 10th par. corrects bankruptcy status, etc., adds more of the item to section 4 1.mg. Section 4. The bill should request permission for financial restructuring submit an assistant's declaration that it meets the criteria of 3.mg. 10th par. The law. Then, the greater part shows that under law on law, no. 77/1998, and Review and Review Acts, No. 94/2019, the attorneys are government citizens as well as accountants in the implementation of audit work. In view of this, the greater part does not consider it a special reason to say that an assistant and overseer are official members of the county when they perform the job. Six. discusses the right effect of a state's request for a financial reorganization and focuses on the proper effect of receiving a district judgment on a debt request. In the treatment of the matter, it was criticized that the beginning of a payment cup is directed to a reception request, regardless of whether financial restructuring is likely to exist. Rather, the beginning should be considered when the district judge accepted the request and had a specific time to do so. It has to be a matter of caution about taking on the property rights of a worker without any restrictions, even if the payment is temporary. It was required that the resources should be available to those enterprises which are actually operating, but inefficient enterprises should be referred to bankruptcy in order to prevent the growth of creditors. It is necessary to avoid misuse of the resources, such as the condition that, under the premise, the ability of the creditors to take into account the impact of the pandemic or that the request is accompanied by confirmation of an assistant that a debt is not unscheduled or underdeveloped due to a debt that fell on due dates prior to the outbreak's impact. Otherwise, it must be ensured that the district judge will take his stand on the request within a short period of time, but otherwise the right effect will fall. The majority claim that one of the objectives of the bill is to make the trial simpler and more efficient to pay for an enterprise's getting paid and that it will be useful as soon as possible. This can be assumed to be a new resort to some extent and can be expected to be an increasing number of regional events and therefore important that the right effect depends on the reception of a request for financial reorganization and not on its approval. In contrast, the greater part of the district court should be decided on a request without any cause, as mentioned above. The bill. There was a view that credit panels carry the risk of an expiration requirement and that appropriate changes in the law on the expiration conditions have to be made, No. 150/2007, that expiration period will be extended during payment. Then it was pointed out that the legal court is temporary to two years old and will fall down after that time if judicial measures have not been fully satisfied. The rest of the section suggests area six. The bill will be required to require legal support when a request for a financial reorganization begins, the period at which the warrant is valid should be except for a legal expiration date. Such measures are in accordance with regulations 4 mg. 1 1. ........... 101/2010. In other respects, therefore, the greater part is directed to the Ministry to see if there is any basis for further adjustment in the law that has to do with the expiration of others. Seven. The bill discusses the treatment of a district judgment on a request for financial reorganization. It was noted that this is not allowed for a judge to give a debt extension to make up for the limit of the application, as was the case with payoffs and emergency contracts. Furthermore, if it becomes obvious that the reorganization will not be accomplished because of the more serious financial problems that have been present for the epidemic, the local court would not be authorized to deny a request. This should be added to the corresponding requirements presented in Figures 2 and 5. Section 12. Act of bankruptcy, et cetera. The majority point out that 7th paragraph. The bill is referred to Article 11. Act of bankruptcy, et cetera. on request of treatment. It says that if not all data are available, a short delay should be given. So the majority consider judges to already have such authority. According to Figure 1 2.mg. 7. the bill should be denied a request if not met all criteria 1.mg. 1st gro, like 2nd pars. In this way, it has to be shown that the payment problem is due to conditions that have developed as a result of the epidemic but are not due to problems that have been present before the epidemic. If this is not shown, the request should be withheld. The majority of the components do not see the need for comparable measures, as is shown in 2 and 5. Section 12. Act of bankruptcy, et cetera. since the bill's terms are enough for this. According to 1st mg. Section 12. The bill may require the creditor to demand that financial reorganization be canceled for certain conditions. The committee was told that a comparable source is found in Article 26. Act of bankruptcy, et cetera. who are bowing to the post of payment. 3 mg. Twenty-six. The law, however, is required on the authority of local judges to dismiss the requirement, including If he thinks it's clearly unprovoked. Since the bill does not require such a warrant, therefore, a local judge is obliged to make such an announcement. That arrangement may be subject to problems. If creditors have reorganized protests about the source as well as resulting in significant costs for all concerned, they may be the most likely affected at the time that a creditors have paid for financial reorganization. This is where I'm gonna take a short break. Is the discourse period limited in the background?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u51	It's 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u52	That's it. That's it. Then I'll have to shorten my case pretty much, and I'll give up the opinion of the majority of the committee. But I would like to finally point out that the committee's opinion contains a warning from the Sigríður Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir, who I'm not going to cross here, as she is about to do it on her own in a speech. Based on what was previously stated, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document and is provided here. The person standing here signed this opinion according to a warrant in Section 4. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under the authority given here, Páll Magnússon, Ármannsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, in advance, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdottir, Árnadóttir, Tírjönnadótir, and Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunulaugdótir, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u53	The president points out that there is a problem. Of course, a senator can put himself on the rosary for a second time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A public speaker. I spoke to them right away at the beginning of the viral epidemic that we would be using sources in bankruptcy to allow economic restructuring of the enterprise for the Covid virus epidemic. I'm celebrating this bill, and there's a lot of good in it and I need it in these circumstances. It is a question of whether it could have been easier to do so by agreeing that the virus epidemic would fall. But here's a good deal. I agree with what happened. A senator says it is important that this law not be abused. But it also matters that the law is not too narrow and that it really uses those enterprises which are having an emergency due to the virus epidemic. I also welcome the change that stands to make, that the Lonely Ones fall under here. It's very important. I remind you, though, that there is a group that can't use this option, and it's those who are on their own social security number. There's a lot of them, e.g. Tourists and others who are monotonous and who would really need this. So it is disappointing that the committee has not gone that way. I wanted to ask you why. A senator on the loss of income, 75% condition, whether it is fully developed that it cannot be changed. It's been recommended. Business advice recommends it. There are a lot of companies who are only under this level that could use this. [[The president calls.]] Is that the conclusion of the committee, why? Senator, not changing my income?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u55	A respectable president. As to the second question, if this 75% criteria were the only correct one was discussed. Of course, no claim can be made. Would it have been normal for it to be 60, 65%? These boundaries had to be set somewhere, and the result was that these were normal limits based on the actions of others involved. Then we were puzzled by the isolationists. On the committee, we improved the situation considerably from what was expected in our discussion. First, to establish, not a requirement to have been paid for two, but just one or more. Then, as long as they were lawyers, they fell under the rule of a reverend, i.e. would have a business around his business. It led to a monotonous, self - identifying number that the methods that could be used were so complex and that it would be so complicated that it would be, in effect, kind of unfair. That's two things the committee does, i.e. to refer to other possible measures or resources for such individuals and also to direct them to a minister to consider whether a person could run in this type of operation in some other way. However, the bill does not control the concern of this exact type and must refer to other measures as well as to a minister's further opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Those who work on their social security number are, as I specifically mentioned, people associated with the tourism industry produce a variety of products that they sell to tourists. There's been a total drop in income. It's also expensive to start a business. Many people like it better, but it's a simpler way to use their own social security number, so it certainly would have had to try to find some kind of landing for this group. I'd like a later answer to what. A senator coming in on taxation is due abduction. I believe that in addition to a temporary simplicity of the financial restructuring of an enterprise, as we are doing here today, the taxation rules should be temporarily changed for later. It is important that companies, these reorganizations be made possible, not given any account for the tax of pay on top of the entire losses. This I know was on the committee and on the other hand. has been stressed by Iceland's business council and expressed in their review. I didn't realize that, although I tried to pay close attention to the long talk. A senator, that he specifically mentioned this. If he could review whether or not it was discussed, it might be possible to permit the release of taxation due to a post-imbursement debt. I think it's necessary to investigate with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u57	A respectable president. Yes, this was the point of my speech that had not been timed here. I can go over it briefly. It is in accordance with the tax treatment of remuneration of sectoral expenditures that a post-imbursement debt produces a tax product. We believe that, on the committee's opinion it is important that tax treatment do not vary according to the practice of postmortem. So, in the greater part, we are directed to the Ministry of Justice, in agreement with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, to consider further how it can affect companies in case of temporary pay of reimbursement and whether it is necessary to react quickly to the above.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u58	A respectable president. As noted by whiskers. I am among the members of the members of Congress who are on the case, but with a certain advance notice. I wanted to briefly explain their viewpoints. This is one of the products that have been specifically designed to cope with the heavy economic impact of the companies in the country following the Covid-19 and the action required to take because of the virus. These measures were necessary and an essential part of resisting the threat of the virus, but they led to economic consequences. The circumstances, so you can say the obvious, which the companies in the country have faced because of Covid-19, have proved to be very difficult for many of them. The objective of the bill is worthy, and it is good; to provide SMEs with temporary protection during this situation and at the same time provide them with opportunities for financial reorganization. As I say, the goal is worthwhile, but the main concern may be that predicting what its consequences will be. In the treatment of the case of the commission, a theme was repeated that under the same circumstances, and without government action, the number of expansive enterprises were inevitable. Of course, we all know what will happen then. This would result in loss of value, loss of knowledge and unemployment. I'm sorry, but this is simply the situation. Therefore, the conditions are developed as they are, and that is my support, guided by the capture of as many companies in this position, i.e. an enterprise in this crisis of Covid-19. It's a very important thing, it's a very bad business because of this situation. The aim must be, in my opinion, since we're on the other side of this rescue mission, to catch as many companies. Thus, I was among the senators who stressed the handling of the matter that the monotonous would also agree here. If the aim is to help companies and to provide this life - saving cycle, it needs to reach all those we can reach in this position because of these circumstances. Not to be overlooked are the mere outward appearances. It may not be fair to say, but I couldn't quite see the evidence that monotonies, with the application we're offering, should not fall under. I appreciate this change. That step has been taken is a prerequisite for my support. This is the situation we all know, this historical economic crisis that accounts for this operation. Of course, we will not be overlooked for what reason we are in that situation. I feel that the discussion on this subject is not to be forgotten for the reasons for this operation. We remember that now, and we need to remember that for the future. A matter of concern is that the way in which this is going is designed to contribute to a certain degree of justice cannot be overlooked. That's because we're going to move here from a known bankruptcy rights and we're going to step into relationships that have already developed. It's always unpleasant, and it's uncomfortable when legalization occurs at such a rate. The money exchange rights are responsible for a long - term judicial action. There has been a fixed project. There's been danger of experimenting with the work we're doing right now. The danger may be that there are consequences in this situation that we simply do not see, questions that will arise on a judicial action that we do not foresee. There may be some interpretation of the courts in the country that we didn't foresee and could not predict. My priorities for support are especially based on our changing the rules, but we do so because of the circumstances we have here. They have been changed for an important reason, and they were very important to guide them, but I admit that this is why I am concerned. The changes that have been made in the bill in the treatment of the case on the Committee are positive and for the better. That's the first thing I mentioned earlier, getting the monarchy under here, I think it's a fair matter and an equal basis. In addition, I would also mention that this is an arrangement to suggest that, on a temporary basis, there is a warrant for a longer loan period or a delay on due date from three years to 18 months. This too is to my mind a very important change and a specific need for support. This measures are temporary and must be temporary. Speaking 18 months ago, more than three years ago, helps me to feel more balanced. That's important to me. This approach is designed to compromise the respect of the debtor's interests, who is now in a difficult position but not totally aside from the interests of the demandsant. It is designed to reduce potential loss of value during the payment process, but it does not completely solve the predictable problems and uncertainty. I'm going to mention in my advance the opinion of the parties. The bill recommends that negotiation workers will not interfere with decisions that will affect their financial interests in terms of treaties. My experience is that this change may conflict with the Council and the Council Directive, its number is specified in the advance, and I'm going to save us from reading it. I think this directive will probably be recorded in the EEA Convention, simply because EU Community rights have all been recorded in the EEA Convention. This is a subject of business practices and the requirement for financial restitution. It is therefore not only, in view of the agreement between demands and creditors'interests, that it is important that these measures be temporary, also temporary, in the light of my belief that the decree will be adopted. When introduced, the law of bankruptcy may need to be taken into account in a complete review. Taking into account the objective of the bill, taking into account the changes made in the case, I support it. But I admit that the choice was not entirely simple to me. It's kind of a cold takeout. My conclusion and the restoration led to a worthwhile goal and to the heavy economic impact of the country's enterprise to support this issue. It's a situation that got us all, not just in Iceland, but in the whole world, unsaid, and it's been a major blow to the business of the country. It is in Iceland, in part, more important than anywhere else in view of what our professional life is all about as much as our tourism is a major problem. This cuts into a firm company that was not responsible for the storm that struck. The conclusion is that this is one of the issues that the Archipelago would like to support in reducing this crisis and in order to keep the workers in temporary safety during the storm. We support the objective of defending our companies in this way, defending their jobs, and protecting them at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u59	A respectable president. Thanks for the last two o'clock. Senators for saying most of the things I'd like to say about this, that's probably the best warning I've ever had. I'm on the General and Education Committee, and I decided not to be part of the Committee because I'm afraid of it, but I'm not sure that the consequences of this bill are well known enough to make me trust to add my name to it, though with extreme respect to the people it dares. Thus, after examining the effects of this bill, it has become very clear that we do not know them. We are in such a situation that if we do not agree, we will not know what will happen either. It's all very vague. As noted by one of the experts that the committee met, economics themselves are now unusually useless because the circumstances are so unprecedented. There is such a strange situation, strange variables in progress, that the only thing that can really be said with absolute certainty is that the biggest problem is unemployment. It can change. It can change very quickly, perhaps it will no longer be the main problem in August. Perhaps it becomes something else, a growth gel, or an inflation. It doesn't look that way right now. However, the situation has weakened the teachings, since they have not been tested in these circumstances. They are so rare and particularly difficult to compare with what is known in economics. Hv. 7. Reykv.. n.. I was well aware of warnings that were discussed with the monotonous and the like, and the fear that property could be lost, supplies, and such things and all the good things to say. The committee has submitted their opinion that it can be met, at least to some extent. The legal party was also identified with what is going on today, is well - known, many legal examples, and is aware of how they work. This is where we're only messing with them like hell. A senator mentioned earlier. It is, by nature, a legal hazard that all parties in business and the consequences of them can accept their presupposed rights. Of course, they will be able to come to justice in time and with good results. But before it is clear, there is uncertainty, and it alone is bad, regardless of the final outcome. I don't know for yourself, it's bad. It was also made up of the point in which the committee met the company, especially in tourism, has access to a particular species of ◯ loans, which is an advance payment from clients. Often customers buy trips or hotels and pay in advance. It is essentially a type of loan, though we may not talk about it that way in everyday speech. If it is customary for customers to lose this money, they are likely to stop trusting companies for such advance money. It undermines this loan plan that companies have access to, and this can be, we heard in meetings, a rather large part of the cash that, for example, is available. EICs have access to. There is a chance that they will undermine confidence that a company can live up to its service obligations, not necessarily financial commitments, but commitments to service when paying in advance in industry and service where it is rather a rule than an exception. This is an example of the bad consequences that might be experienced by the case, and we do not yet know it, and we will not know until it is tested. Another one called a cocktail effect. That may not sound bad to everyone. In this context, they include the presentation of many solutions and each one is good, even if they are well - known, but when mixed in unusual times under unusual circumstances, they are no longer out of place with some side effects that are unknown and may be harmful even for the simple reason that they are unknown. This was a warning. This is an example of a threat that is not necessarily possible for the high Council to avoid, in the light of circumstances, and in the light of the need for us to do something. But at the same time, we can't just do something. We must do something that we are reasonably certain will improve. Of course, I hope this will be the case, and as I said at the outset, I have every respect for the fact that people are supporting this issue despite this uncertainty. I was almost on notice, but I did. Again, the big problem we know of in the immediate future is unemployment. One authority on the committee found that it was unclear how this bill tackled that problem. Of course, none of the basics are now concerned to tackle that problem, but it is only very important that we bear in mind that the big problem we face is unemployment. The General has been given a lot of attention to keeping companies in business and the like, but we need to think more about how we help a person without a job but only by trying to keep companies in business to ensure employment. There will be a lot of unemployment, no matter what, and we cannot afford to forget that group by focusing too much on having it less than it would be. I do not minimize the fine ways in which a business can go on and thus offer a job. We must not forget the group that will inevitably be out of work because it is big. He may be long out of work, though that is, of course, one of the uncertainties that we simply do not yet know what will happen. I'm not gonna have this any further, a respectable president. I just wanted to come up here for a short time and explain my answers to this matter. I hope, of course, that it will be as effective as it is and that we will be able to get out of this uncertainty period as soon as possible and I expect everyone to go for it. Councilmen also wish to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u60	A respectable president. A person is faced with a number of problems because we are in a difficult situation and all the advantages we have are bad. Just like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, I cut the subject of the cocktail effect. The committee was contacted by two fine economists, then Brynjar Brastrur Torfason and Gylfi Magnússon. In fact, Gylfi reminded us that economics are called the sad science. Perhaps they were publishers of such world visions in their introductions to the committee meetings without my intention to trace exactly what they had to say. Yet, they emphasized the many uncertainties ahead of them and what economics would really be lacking in the ability to cope with the present situation. Aggressors in themselves know nothing more than others with society. But this was in my heart and may be the reason why I come up here to declare a warning as soon as I give my support to this matter. Just like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson I wanted to name the cocktail effect Brynjar Bradar reminded us of. We're here with drinks, each one is nice and nice, but if we mix the whole thing together, we don't know what the effect will be. You'll be thinking of the story of the Icelandic contractor at the Halldor Laxness Íslands-Bersi, who was then the representative of the Icelandic fielder, Silverpelant, mixed up everything that was achieved with the expected result. As to the cocktail effect, we are in situations where many measures are being carried out. Each one may seem worthwhile, but it may not have satisfied the overall impact of these measures, and this causes some concerns. We are in an economic crisis, and this bill can be likened to digging in the father. That's how it works. It is like digging in the father. While the storm rages, we are protected by the storm and, hopefully, will survive sooner than later. Then we step out of our father's office, and we see a whole new picture, a new environment, completely different from what it used to be. I think it's the lawgiver's job to try hard to influence the way the environment is facing it. In this regard, I think it's a little more important that we keep in mind that the sector of employment in the country, the business environment of the enterprises, is as healthy as it has been in the country in recent years. I am especially concerned with another bill, which is also for the treatment of what is being done. The Board of Education and the Board of Education is to be handled on a so-called social security scale. I think it's necessary for the committee to take it off sleazyly and that the Council finishes it as soon as it finishes. I feel that these issues are linked and that it is important to let them connect. In itself, I do not have much to add fine talks that have been given here by a prominent and others. Councilmen. I'm happy for what's going on. A global and educational committee managed to deal with the problems of dictators. And I hope it's enough for someone and enough. I have an understanding of the views displayed by consumer representatives who were negative toward this bill and felt that it was a serious concern for consumers'rights. I also have an understanding of the view that the underlying debt on which the common consumer spends, such as some travel service company, are of a nature other than debts due to loans because the consumer has already paid for some product he is required to receive. But in turn, it's a blizzard, so it's just that, and if nothing's done, if there's no way of digging in the father, the business can get lost in all of this. Where do those in debt stand? It is worth the effort to come to the rescue. We don't know who it's gonna be any good for. We do not know unless it will benefit someone who may not have had access to the code. We do not know if these measures will be misused in any way. You can assume that it will be tried. This is true even now in human society, but it does not say that we should not try to help those who need help, even if anyone tries to abuse help. It's worth trying because there's so much at stake. It's people's job, people's livelihood, people's dreams, people's dreams, people's dreams that start companies around some dream vision they have. These may be small enterprises that produce some clever product or sleek service and have a perfectly productive basis for a normal year's journey. All of this is uncertainty, an extremely high level of uncertainty. But saying so, I declare support for this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u61	A respectable president. I'm here to complain about this bill and part of the head of the Committee because a point is missing in the bill and the Commission opinion, i.e. assessment of effect. It is said in the bill that it is very difficult to make this assessment of influence, how the bill will affect public business, government commitments, and the like. I have a certain understanding of that. But I do not understand that there is not even some sort of analysis there, for recently we were reviewing that we are going to give up a financial aid bill on the part-change process, both first and those who have been tighted down. That bill had an over 800 million effects on food. K. And ended up to 27 billion, reminds me, just the first, without much limits, and to about 35 billion overall, estimatedly. In fact, on the part-way bill, we have an estimate of less than 800 million impact during the council that there are limits to what the European Commission uses in that law. So some months later, it is a bit splashed in the face and says: "No, it wasn't 800 million, it was 45 times more. Yes, there were plans, even the day after the bill was approved at a council, that the cost would be even 22 billion. However, it is not enough to bring any diagnostics like this after the law has been approved. The law is clear, and if there's anything they need to change, as the wind should go to the council and look for financial resources. That's why I miss the fact that I'm involved in this bill. We do not know how much this will cost, nor do we have a limit on how much the project can really spend on it and then come back in the fall with a budget bill - for how many billions? I have no idea. This is because at the time we are postponing financial and financial agendas that place restrictions on governments, the state of state resistance, complete transparency, as the financial Council discussed, and the announcement of progress to the council. If at any time, an excuse should be made that economic policy and financial policies cannot be established in this situation must be balanced. This bill is an example of non-translucent. Somehow I doubt that the commitment and cost of this bill will go against us until we suddenly see it on a budget bill sometime late and later this year. I have a simple complaint and a request to those who have something to say about this matter, and I am referring primarily to members of the greater part and to the natural government; i.e. Doing this and taking it seriously. They need to inform the fund of budgets that the Council is to agree, because there has really been an exception to the Constitution regulations that no fees can be charged or paid unless financial funds or financial funds are obtained. There's some kind of tradition that you can accept legal rights and financial contributions afterwards. I believe that it can be expected only in the case of legal costs, e.g. For social security and for these calculated sizes we can't affect anyway. We already set the law, it will cost what it costs, even though we regularly have information about whether something will change there or not. There are financial resources that can be completed at the end of the year anyway, unless we intervene in a change of law when we are told that something is wrong, like a law that cost us 5 billion a couple of years ago or so, because it was tried to reinvent people and make mistakes in legalization and so on. Very interesting. However, in matters that the Commission brings to the council without actually limiting the legal rights to them, it is not acceptable to keep the evaluation until then. There has to be an assessment of the effect, it doesn't have to be very accurate, but it has to be there. When it is not, when there is not even a financial or financial agenda, the government's information supply to the council must be as transparent as possible, a time and a great deal rather than nobody and slow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u62	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator in that transparency is important, and the standards and rules that are being proposed today in these unusual times, where we are sailing through a very deep crisis, and unemployment is enormous. This has to be transparent, and I think that exactly what the council is doing is ensuring that, including... by having the conditions very clear that companies need to meet in order to take advantage of certain means of living. That applies to this bill. Hv. A senator makes note that this is not a clear cost assessment. I'd like to ask him what he thinks is normal at this point, at the place we're in the economy swing, to set a lot of time to dig that number up. I would also like to ask if he considers the amount of time it would take to carry the normal cost of sacrifice on account of the companies who, during the period of unnecessary head injury and with the effect that it will have on the lives of those who work for them. It is all right to call for this information, but what is the senator willing to say can take long and at the expense of what?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u63	A respectable president. This is to prevent public costs. By establishing these laws, we are using public funds to achieve these goals, so that the time we use to protect the use of public funds is well spent. To say, I understand that the cost of these actions is difficult to assess, and on this point I realize that such cost would not be accurate at all. However, I would like to see a reference, and there is no need to waste anything of a tremendous amount of time on it, if any impact is accompanied by a complex issue and only a very simple profile of the criteria set. We should know about How many companies are under there. Then you can clearly guess how many companies would go all the way in these measures, and you can say that that that means 2 billion. If that scene fails, it means that the execution of the project will come back and say, "I'm sorry, it was just too underestimated. " If it was overrated, it's a budget that's not fully used. I'm fine with that. This is about setting the European Commission targets that make it impossible for plans to arrive at the council and say: Plans fail, we need more funding, etc., is the council prepared to do so or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u64	Mr. President. I see why. A senator did not differ from what he wanted it to be written in a clearer way that makes it very uncertain and needs to put some kind of price on it, which can be carried back and forth. I have to say, I feel that this is almost just a Teoretic discussion because I believe that there is a problem, that the objective of the government is set out on a project. I feel that at this point, the requirements are better spent, both at the highest level. Governments and us senators as well as all the officials involved in working and analysing these matters, in suggesting and putting them through here what we can do to ensure that the crisis will not further deepen and that the survival of the people can be guaranteed. That's where the priority is to be right now. I'm sure you'll have to change things over time and we'll see how things work. But my opinion is that government emphasis is on what is important, not on the cost analysis that is very difficult to put on, but on the important policy. [[The president calls.]] That's what's being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u65	A respectable president. This is no Teoretic debate. It is simply under government law. The government needs to comply with the law and provide such costs and other policy-making evaluations and the effects of government policy and government legislation on state funds. Certainly, our obligation is to ensure that public funds are handled well. We must make the minimum requirement, when governments are going to use public funds to protect the company from socialism, to tell people how much it costs. After all, they're the people who come here to pay for it. Whether this is a commitment to 2 billion or 200 billion is relevant to the treatment. Probably one number is too low, and the other too high if you're to guess something. I have a very deep understanding of the uncertainty of the analysis of these points that are being considered in the bill. However, it does not excuse the government's policy of not setting standards before they plan to return to the council, nor does it excuse the council and the committee not to set the same limits. The committee is to do so by law, not by some Teoria.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u66	A respectable president. I'd like to thank those who have spoken to the 2nd. with helpful tips and comments I believe most of them have been addressed and provided appropriately in the bill and the above mentioned opinion. I wanted to come to the end because I didn't reach a country in my language earlier before I fell into time, giving the most delicate part of this matter that required the most discussion and visitors on the committee, and to what committee was involved in meeting it. This has to do with contracts. The new bill, as arranged by the Minister of Justice, was proposed to require contracts according to legal regulations for bankruptcy, etc. as well as the failures of bankruptcy, such as 2 mg per year, may be included in a contract of bets. 20. ... anda b-team 24. The bill. The bill suggested a permanent change. During the treatment of the matter, comments were made that the right demands were taken without having them fully settled in the matter. Such arrangements could have made a major difference in the value and benefits of the pledge and could have taken over the property rights of the one to whom it belongs. This would require a permanent change in the law of bankruptcy, etc. Further check-ups, including whether such a warrant should be reserved only to bail or insurance rights in value that are consistently stable, e.g. Real estate. Even the 24th C.E. could be eliminated. the bill, or make it temporary at this time. The committee was informed that the contract was not signed by a contract that prevented a contract and that the bill is intended to respond. At the committee meetings, it was held that the nobility of these demands is not being canceled but that they are merely authorized to change the terms of payment, including extending the amount of loan time. The majority of the data shows that there is a law on bankruptcy, etc. needs to be reviewed and in view of the opinion that the majority of the items are desirable in evaluating the experience and results of this change and taking into account the interest of the stakeholders before making permanent changes. So much of the part suggests instead of 31. a, compare b-along 24. The bill, if there are temporary laws on bankruptcy, etc. and will thus be left out in financial reorganization according to the bill in other respects. Furthermore, for up to three years, it suggests that the length of the loan period, or the deadline, will be reduced to up to 18 months. That change includes: conducted in view of the difference in value of mortgages. So this was the reaction of the majority of the Committee to the point that caused the most urgent discussions at the Committee when the bill was until the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u67	A respectable president. I wanted to ask you what. The speaker mentioned in my talk earlier. He is a member of the Independence Party, who is generally able to see how to manage public funds. However, in this case as well as the part-change process, there is a small choice over the Council's budget, where there is no assessment of the impact of the State's commitment to reach the objectives of this matter. Should it not have been the role of the Committee to demand such assessment of the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u68	A respectable president. I appreciate that question. Although in some respects it is justified, I refer to the answer. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Riverd's Árnadóttir, it's hard to throw off this. But the difference between options we talk about and e.g. the co-ordinates or other ways that have been involved here and which have come to the head of the budget and economic and business committees after the events, are that this is not a major national expenditure beyond what is involved - if I allow myself to do all of this - ◯dminstrate of the event, how to enforce it because legal matters are being changed. If you want to look at this for simplicity, you can say that it is being done for the benefit of the company or that you can give them this shelter so that they can dig into the father over a certain period of time. But that is not at the cost of the state's funds. Legally changes are being made and legalize companies are being made to cover creditors during this time, but not to be paid from a state fund in the same way as other resources depend on the amount of money we have been considering. Allied and so on. A committee we sit in together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u69	A respectable president. However, this affects certain commitments made by the State, postponement of payment, and such factors affect the financial cost and the like. These may not be very high, but at least It would need to have a set of criteria, so if this is a bad conclusion, it would be appreciated in bankruptcy, since the objective of the bill is to prevent bankruptcy that adversely affect the survival of the State. We're trying to stop them. If it fails, it will have a negative impact on the state funds that should be given an assessment of the effect. This is the cost of a government fund, so it's missing. How would counter measures be involved, and what effect does the pay grade have on government economics? There are more than crowns there, and I think the council should have some assessment of the magnitude of the situation we're talking about when we consider whether the law will achieve its objective or not, because when we see that the law does not achieve its objective, if it happens, the council obviously needs to intervene by a change in these laws or by other measures. That the European Commission will determine the impact of the criteria that give us tools to monitor the progress of the case. That's why the food is missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u70	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this much. I understand why. A senator and where he's going with the logic he's got up here. On the other hand, I think that's what we're doing. Similarly, a senator must understand that potential influences, as described earlier, are actually so far away, i.e. evaluating what will happen if the operation does not benefit a large number of enterprises in that way, we are avoiding the cost of bankruptcy that would occur if we did nothing. [[Up front.]] Yeah. I'm quite aware of the inquiry. But I agree with the evidence here that it is virtually impossible, at least within some embarrassing time, to cover it with an assessment of this because the question would be: What if this did not benefit the companies we are going to do, and we had to evaluate what would happen if a certain number of companies still went wrong, which he would surely have done if they hadn't taken action? [[Up front.]] But the tip's out and accepted, and I appreciate it. A senator for the record.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u71	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees on a bill to legalize a change in health care law. The case has been for the treatment of the committee since December. As was true of many other matters during this session, the welfare committees have been involved in a number of related pandemic issues for Covid, which are being discussed here today. Some visitors came to the committee, and we received reviews, as considered, I'm not going to read it here. The bill suggests that health care legislation will be submitted according to the Constitutional resolution of No. 29/149 on health policies until 2030. It is suggested to include in the song text the definition of the health-care status proposed by the health-care board. These are also proposed to explain the role of health institutions as well as the changes in the regulations of the Commission and the Presidency. The committee opinion goes through the bill for an article and I will speak in my language mostly to the text of the committee opinion but will go beyond that if there is any particular reason for further discussion. In 1st. it is suggested that the Health Care Professional Definition be divided into three stages; first grade, second and third degree health care. In the treatment of the situation, there was a view that the decision made by straddlers would have to look at how to shape the sector of employment in aging services and how to take into consideration the health services provided in people's homes. Comments were then made to indicate that rehabilitation was not defined as part of a secondary health care professional. In addition, it would be reasonable to specify in paragraph 12. Treat the level of service given to healthcare professionals in a healthcare facility, i.e. Second and third degree medical services. In addition, it was noted that the term telecommunication has become quite active in the general language and that it was time to define it in the law. The majority of patients believe that rehabilitation is really secondary health care, i.e. Most often, although it may come to be phase one or even a third. Everything depends on what it's going to be for and what it's going to be. Second degree medical services are defined in c-joints 1.g. Therefore, the bill and we on the Committee do not feel the need to define it specifically as part of a secondary service, as well as any other service in particular that may have multiple definitions. In view of the greater part, long - term health care can apply to all degrees of health care, although it is usually a first or second stage of service. We believe that a definition of the term telecommunication of the term remote health care services is given, and therefore the Commission suggests a change in the provision of a new provisional order that a minister appoints a group that has the task of providing suggestions for the definition of a remote health service. The group shall submit its conclusions to the minister for June 1, 2021, and the minister shall proceed with the council by oral report on the results of the task force. We feel that this is all very important because it may be viewed as a need to define what remote health care is, but it also requires an assessment of the ways in which others have taken the lead. That's what changes are called the motion that is involved in the modification document. Two. Section 3. The bill should be agreed by health care centres in accordance with Article 1. These articles will adopt medical classes based on agreements with educational institutions, educational hospitals, and university hospitals. The committee made it clear that there was also a possibility that physical therapists could care for the clinical training of physical therapists. The majority agree with the view that in some cases the healthcare providers may accept clinical training. It can, for example, be used. refers to medical staff therapists and nursing homes with internally active home doctors and independent specialists in other fields. The majority, though, claim to be 3rd. The bill turns to health institutions and their obligation to receive instruction from the health - care professions on the basis of agreements. However, this does not rule out that such clinical teaching may be based on agreements, although the nature of the case cannot be stated as related in these cases. For a-a-team 5. The bill calls for the operation of Land Hospital and its role defined according to its status in the medical system as the main hospital of the country and a university hospital. In the treatment of the matter, a viewpoint on the importance of making clear that the hospital's role was also a matter of caring for special education as well as providing funding and facilities for scientific research and educational work. "B" Unit 5. The bill calls for the operation of the Akureyri Hospital, which is defined according to its status in the medical system as a teaching hospital. The committee gave the opinion that its role is also to care for the special training of the medical profession. Then the commission was made that if the hospital was to be an option to be a university hospital, it would need to be eliminated as a law - teaching hospital. Instead, the condition of the hospital should be established in the Regulation. The Committee reviewed that the Akureyri Hospital had received recognition as an institution for home medicine, medical treatment, and emergency surgery, and even more. Then family medicine specialists could complete the school hospital part at the Akureyri Hospital, but in other articles the study would be implemented in cooperation with the Land Hospital. Also, nurses at the Akureyri Hospital who gain expertise in nursing would have attended the clinical part of the study at the Akureyri Hospital. The majority agree with the above views that the Akureyri Hospital plays a role in a specialised health care professional and therefore contributes to a change in the B-ili. The bill that the Akureyri Hospital helps to provide academically qualified health professionals with educational institutions and other health institutions. The majority of these points out that there is a need to define conditions that need to be met so that an institution can function as a university hospital or university repercussion. A medical conference to 2030 shows that it is generally believed that the basis for the activities of a university hospital is one to two million people, i.e. the recording area involved in the hospital. The nature of the case says there is no such area in Iceland. This may create the situation that more than just the Landsspike could gain this recognition. The greater part of it feels that it is important to go to work simply to set down the criteria for a person to get this quality witness, let us say, and direct it to a minister that will be done. The majority, however, state that the role of the International Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital is not deemed entirely in the judicial system and that a minister is required to appoint regulations that will further determine the role and function of hospitals and the health care provided there. In the case of nursing home and nursing care, it was pointed out that the provision of the Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital points to the service level to be rendered in their institutions. To maintain harmony, it would also have to be referred to a service level provided in nursing homes and nurses, as well as in day - to - day living people. The majority point out in this relationship that in b-, c- and d- team 1st par. the bill is provided for the definition of the health care stage and the function to be performed individually. Therefore, in view of the greater part, no particular reference is required to the services listed in c-, d-, and E- team 5. The bill. In nursing homes, however, the nature of the situation is presented according to situations where it can be considered reasonable to provide a second degree of health care or even a third, even if the function is generally related to the first degree of service. The majority of the rules are that the definition should not prevent negotiations due to payments for such services. It was a little discussed on the committee. B-team 7. is suggested for a change in the 5 mg. Count 9. The law has to do with the duties and responsibilities of the directors of the medical institutions. The laws on rights and duties of the government. This change allows temporary recruitment of executives up to five years of absence. The committee found criticism that the requested release would be expected without any explanation. An article with the bill does not specifically conclude that the source will no longer exist. Only laws on the rights and duties of the government are considered sufficient in relation to the duties and responsibilities of the director of the medical institutions. The majority of it points out that the current warrant is a variation from the general law on the rights and duties of the personnel of the State, which is prohibited in making temporary contracts with government employees for more than two years. In a paper with a bill on health care laws, No. 40/2007, according to reasons why such a warrant was proposed, was needed on the one hand of the Land Hospital to hire head officials in the hospital, who also have the job of teachers at university, temporary consultation up to five years of age, and it was generally considered appropriate to regularly change managers in specific areas of health care. In view of the greater part, general rules for this group of employees are reasonable. General rules should be applicable if workers are needed for a longer period than two years. Eight. the bill is, uh... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... obliging regulations to state the professional responsibility of the head of physicians and the head of the department nursing. In the handling of the matter, the protest was made, pointing out that there must be a clear understanding of professional responsibilities. Furthermore, the director does not appear to be obliged to hide e.g. Nurses professionally responsible for nursing. Thus, it would be possible for a professional responsibility to be distributed and not to be clearly defined. In this context it was stated that in the bill's report, it was stated that the director's duty was to ensure that it is clear who is responsible for the services rendered within the medical facility. Therefore, it would be important that this responsibility be entrusted to those with the greatest professional skills in each field. The majority agree with the above views that by disposing of professional responsibilities, professional responsibility can spread and become less clear. In view of this, the greater part suggests the conversion of an 8.g. The bill will be removed, including the requirements of current legislation, which includes the positions of health - care professionals or health care professionals and their professional responsibility for the medical services and the positions of the head of the head of the head of the clinics and their professional responsibility for nursing. For a discussion of Article 9. comments were made on the removal of Article 11. The laws on the design of health institutions, thereby granting the director of health institutions one authority to make fundamental changes in the responsibilities and management of institutions. In this system, there is a risk that there will be insufficient perspective on the management of health care institutions. In this context, the Director of the Generals for the Monitoring of Ministers with the Health Organization was identified as confirmation of an institution's shipship under the health - care laws. It was then noted that in place of a confirmatory minister, the order of the administration would be given to the administration of a larger medical facility, which would include: It's the job of accepting a log. The majority agree with the above views that by unindicating the director to make the organization's shipwork, there is a risk of overlooking the health care organization. The majority believe that by means of a developer's strategium in consultation with the Commission, if such a regime exists, they present a minister and a logical support for the shippane before it takes effect, the director of the Health Organization for the Management Board of the Agency will be held. So much of the part contributes to the adjustment made by that material. With a count of 9. The bill is also removed Article 12. The law of the law states a duty to operate the Commission in a medical facility, led by the director. It may be that the management board is not always needed in a medical facility, since the activities of such institutions vary in size. In view of the greater part of the decision on the need for a specific Commission in the medical facility to be in the hands of the director and to appear at the board of the institution. There was much discussion of the subject, and many comments were made about it. 13th. The law requires the obligation of a university and a teaching hospital to use effective medical advice and nursing advice, as well as the experiences of other professionals. With a 10. The bill is suggested to remove from the law the regulations on such matters, but instead the cross-cutting advice of all professional health professionals within the medical institutions for counseling and supporting them will be made mandatory to the order of a special health care committee in general confined to health institutions. In some comments, therefore, it was strongly objected to removing medical counsel and nursing advice, to the point that this counsel played a vital role, and to take sides with the director's authority. Rather, the advice that is already there should be further developed as well as encouraged other professions to set up a legal authority. Then further cooperation and consultation should be encouraged, e.g. by providing more than one profession within the Agency's scope for cooperation. There was a view that a professional advice composed of many classes would be at best large and indistinguishable and that it would be unclear whether this would be an advantage for multidisciplinary cooperation or an added service to the patient. It would be important to do at least it is assumed that professional groups could have a subset of the healthcare facility. Furthermore, it would be unclear how the counsel of the trade should be discussed. In contrast, the view that it is important to observe the order of action and the practice of health - care institutions was made clear in view of a total of 35 medical professions in Iceland. This may be considered in a regulation but at the same time the importance of consultation with the health groups involved. In addition, it was pointed out that regulations 3 mg. 13th par. The law is far more specific than the law of 2nd. 10th par. The bill. According to the above, the director should seek professional advice on important decisions relating to the health care of the Agency, but under the latter requirement, the director should also seek the opinion of a professional professional on important decisions relating to the management and management of the health care facility. Thus, 2 mg can be understood. 10th par. the bill in that most, or all, of the movement at health care centres must be supervised. It should be reserved solely for important health care decisions. The majority agree with the view that the function of the class is important. The majority reiterate that in medical institutions many professions and their presence in the organization is important in modern health care. The level of health care providers varies depending on the nature and extent of their activity. Thus, there may be a wide variety of well - arranged staff from different classes, other than doctors and nurses, to form a rehabilitation facility. In view of the greater part, it is warranted to recommend that a minister in the regulations of the regulations and procedures of health care institutions as proposed in the bill. They believe that the greater part of the programme is natural that the director should consult with the health groups working in the Agency in relation to their combinations, as well as to whether there is a reason to include more than one profession or their subgroups. The nature and scope of the activities of each health facility are naturally considered by the arrangements and their subgroups, and thus it may be reasonable to employ a number of professions in some institutions. In fact, this was shown in the case of some of the directors who came before the committee. The majority also agree with the above opinions that there is no reason for the head of the health care facility to consult a level of important decisions relating to the management of the Agency. The majority have an understanding that often business, organization, and health - care services may be interconnected. Therefore, there may be reasons why the director has decisions that are considered to be a business strategy under the Agency. However, it is not considered a reason to place the unforeseeable obligation of directors to make business decisions. So the majority suggest that the obligation of the director to seek an opinion professional should be made solely by important decisions relating to health care and organization. It is proper to assume that this change does not rule out that the director is looking for the guidance of a professional subject, but this takes the duty away. In its simplest form, we can imagine that if there was an unscrupulous obligation to make a decision for telephone service, such a decision should be made or applied under the premeditation. That is why it is taken out in this way. Finally, more part contributes to a number of adjustments to correction and correction, which are technical. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir and Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir were absent at the hearing while writing under the authority of Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the headings of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdótttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and Árnason Arnam. I want to close my speech, Mr. President, thank you. The welfare committee for the job in this case. I'd like to thank you for the helpful tips that came from the Committee on Things Better Possible and have infiltrated some of the changes made. I'm not going to have my case any further at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for review of the committee opinion. I've got some speculation I'd like to make. When the bill was introduced in consultation, there were 25 reviews, a number of those working within the medical system, a variety of professions, and many others, as well as Hospitals and others. Now we've been in our room for a while. The welfare committee. There were 14 reviews, including. From professions, Land Hospitals, the Union of Icelandic rural society, and others. It seems to me at a committee party, and I see in the reviews that neither in consultations nor in the delinquency of the case. The well - being committee has been addressed as well as the many comments presented on large issues. You wonder only how the greater part and the government are able to communicate with the stakeholders to whom they are looking, whether they are. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson is not worried that ignoring the repeated reviews may be a threat to the public and the government that those who happen to know, how they are treated, and how they are handled, may no longer guide us when it comes to legalization at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir answers and questions. I'm not worried that these parties will stop giving us the opportunity to promote us rather than other stakeholders or stakeholders, depending on the case, giving reviews on the matter of Congress. Not all the factors that men point to are always taken into account. I'd like to mean that, although not being taken into account in all of the above, it's done in a few aspects of this matter, in order to make up for the professional responsibility of the health profession, so that you can work on something that I really believe is a very important end, there were indications from a number of professionals and from people out of town. If I am not confusing what was involved with it with what was presented in the council, such rumors would often come into play. I don't think that it should be taken into consideration as if not all indications and viewpoints are a message to interest people that they should stop texting us. But of course, I assume that those who send tips and reviews on matters of Congress may not always be expected to take into account all the things they ask or point out. Some are explained in the committee's opinion, as is the case, to form the role of nursing homes and departments. I believe that in this case it is satisfactory and should certainly not be a reason why men hesitate to bring talks to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is true that not all comments or viewpoints can be taken into account, and this, of course, is what we have been dealing with here at the council recently. But these are basics, such as. With regard to the health - care program and the land hospital. There's nothing done about it. And just so I take an example from these comments, it's not based on the facts of these classes that one major subject is actually going to hurt rather than improve. All the professionals are on it. The need to make changes in the bill for third degree health care is also also spoken of as making too much talk about Land Hospital. It is said that there will be a long - term health service. It is said that it is undefined how to choose in the preliminaries. There is talk of an abnormally large amount of authority on the director's part and more. It was specifically noted in the reference from the European Union that there has been no consideration for their deliberation, and neither has it been taken into account today. I'm not talking about the need to accept all the suggestions or ideas. But you wonder, " Is it not necessary to consult more closely with the classes involved in this complex system? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again resists. He mentioned this with the practical advice, and many had made comments to those who were right. This discussion has been under way at least Then 2003, and I quite remember when the idea of professional advice first came up. Then everyone thought it was completely impossible. Then it was decided to take legal advice into the law as a source, and now it is being made a rule. At all levels, the health status has been at least comment if these changes are not directly opposed. But there has to be a great change in health care in the world. More and more professions are coming to the table, and I believe that it is one of the laws of the government to monitor, react, and make decisions accordingly. I reiterate what I said earlier that, still allowed - and we say in the Commission opinion that, of course, we expect - to arrange their ships according to their operation. As I also spoke in my speech, the directors or directors of some institutions actually declared that they would keep medical advice and nursing advice, despite the fact that it was mandatory to have one big common business advice. I think that's just a lot of joy that they did it. Regarding what the senator said about the definition of a Phase 3 service, it is, as shown in the bill, hospital health services, requiring special skills, advanced technology, high - level drugs, and access to intensive care. [[The president calls.]] I can hardly see that such a service, as defined there and in a report, can be rendered elsewhere than in hospitals. There would be exceptions then. [[The president calls.]] Of course, as with nursing homes, contracts for second and third degree of service were made there in some cases, but the law does not rule it out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u76	A respectable president. We're talking about something very important here. There are not little changes that occur with this bill. It will affect the work and organization of institutions. I'd like to discuss only the status of non-precise health institutions but have been run for public funds. What demands do those who buy the ministry make? What about monitoring the activities and their organization, negotiating them, monitoring their property and stability, and their security and dependability? The Commission is expected to continue. What, though, about governments and their compositions and domains of authority and responsibility? I ask, in view of recent experiences regarding the largest rehabilitation agency in Iceland, Smokeund, in which the Agency was dissolved, modeled, modeled management, the director fired on a very vague foundation, and where did this end? In the arms of a health minister. I don't have to read it any more. I realize the government's health insurance is making the deal, but don't we need to be on guard? Second, the bill made it clear that the director was in control of any formal shipship. Thus, in late stages, the director was assigned to introduce it to the minister and to consult if the manager is active. So the director is in charge. He may make a suggestion to have a party and to introduce it to a minister, but he does not need to consult with anyone. But I'm asking, "What about some professional advice that's legal? " Is it not reason for them to do this about the organization because it is legal?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the Brjánsson Krenchson for the questions. As we know, the recruitment relationship between the head of the health care facility is in fact with a minister of the law today and as it has been the past year. This has been so that it really needs complete trust. However, regarding the fact that the president's increase of authority is being made up of a shipbook that he just needs to introduce to the minister, the obligation is that the same director communicates with his next officer, who in this case is the minister. I don't believe that larger health institutions choose not to be with the managers, I don't see it coming. I trust, however, that the Ministers believe that the directors of the institutions are going beyond the limits that can be considered normal when they publish the ship's minister and present it, and that the Ministers will be expected to comment on it in the future. Let me remind you again that the Chairman's recruitment relationship is with the Minister. That's not with the Commission. In terms of whether the plan should be arranged, I feel that in itself the law does not rule it out, so there is a point that has to do with the health - care organization, as stated in the bill. I reiterate, however, that a minister under the law will set up regulations or regulations against the regulations or regulations involved. [[The president calls.]] I didn't have time to answer the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For the answer, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur! I mentioned this because the Executive Directors are nominated in this relationship, but not the Council, which is certainly legal according to Article 10. I wanted to ask you about the recruitment relationship. In the 9th. The current law is a requirement for recruiting government workers for up to five years. According to the bill, it's coming out. I wonder why, on the other hand, the director of the largest health agency in the country insisted that this be inside. This would have served to the Agency's interests very well, increasing the diversity and renewal of management in situations where jobs at that particular unit are often very challenging. There are constant changes in this sector and the need for the latest knowledge often and frequently. I think the argument of the Committee is ambiguous, I must say so. There's no reason. It's just because it's only a ◯ argument and it's actually reflected in this precocious conservativeity. It is ideal to eliminate this rigid recruitment relationship which is in the public sector. Official workers are not a species at risk of extinction, and I just ask, "What kind of plan is this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir He's the Guðjón of the Brjánsson Brunsson for the counter-sponsored. Why put it out? I agree with the senator that there is no one from the only argument that is behind it, but that the majority of the committees do not believe that there is a reason to hold a warrant on the routine of a temporary two - year recruitment and therefore decide that the rights of the employees should follow the advice that the directors will still have authority to do so are inferior to that fact. In view of the greater part, there is no need to continue giving this opportunity. Rather, it should be clear by the director after two years of temporary consultation whether he wishes to continue working as an employee or not. In my knowledge, this is a question of the rights and responsibilities of employees. I think it's important to be certain that humans are not actually using the law to say, what to say, after the practicality of the council, and therefore they run employees for this long period of time and that, as in the law of other institutions, they should stick to the two-year target.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u80	Mr. President. We'll discuss a matter here, a change in health care law, including will be considered for the definition that health care will be divided into a first, second and third degree healthcare professional in relation to agreed medical practice, as well as other related matters. This particular matter made some changes to a greater part of the welfare committee, as was the case's chairman. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson went over here and it's fine. The fact is, though, that it was not sufficiently advanced during the conference treatment or general discussion, but it is simply necessary in my opinion if it is to be well considered in cases similar to those of the stakeholders and this prime minister received. There were few comments that forced the government to take matters back and to do better. But we're here with opinions and adjustments to a greater part of the welfare committee, and there are suggestions for improving, so that's repeated. I would like to use my time to mention points that were given special attention to sources of information. First, it has to do with 1st pars. the bill, including it suggests that the definition of health care will be converted to these diverse first, second, and third degree healthcare professionals. It showed that the concerned person is critical that rehabilitation was not defined as part of a second degree of health care. The majority of it was rejected on the premise that it was not needed. You could read it from the bill that the rehabilitation was in there. I don't have to comment on whether it's right. But this issue is about the emphasis and the times in which we are living, where life - style - related diseases of various kinds are an increasingly larger part of the challenges our health - care systems face, and rehabilitation of various ways is also a more important part of our system, would be considered to be at least it is appropriate to show support for this important and growing part of the medical system by closing it there and splicing space in this word, rehabilitation, and specifically defined as part of a secondary health care professional. This is true, and it has to do with what was said in the case of the day. Prominent earlier: Health service is changing in many parts of the world. We naturally need to take these changes into account when making changes in our health - care laws because we prefer to assume that these laws of this type are about to last, at least, the passing of time. Something. Remote therapy is another concept that is not mentioned specifically in the definition of health care in the bill. The majority agree on page 2 of the committee's opinion, and I'm going to get, by permission of the President, to cross that suggestion a little bit: The ▪Mei part considers it important to specify a definition of the concept of remote health services and therefore suggests a change in the provision of a new provisional principle that a minister should appoint a group who have the responsibility to provide suggestions on the definition of the concept of a remote health care service. The group shall submit its results to the minister prior to June 1, 2021, and the minister shall subsequently submit a verbal report to the council on the results of the task force. I can fully agree with the importance of this, but I accept here and now, spring 2020, that I should rightly hope that health ministers and health authorities are beyond this process that there will need to be more adjustments in the welfare committee at the Service Level, Presidency and the like to replace work in the shape and definitions of the remote medical services, etc. If not, I support this adjustment in my mind but am certainly amazed. There was a significant debate among guests and in reviews of the third degree of health care. It revealed, as mentioned earlier, that she felt too busy in the land hospital. There was a significant debate among guests, and reviews on the role of the Hospital in Akureyri, e.g. to provide special education at a university. In a general discussion of these matters, since it is not new at all, health authorities from referring to the small size of an Icelandic nation - are standing as many as two million people under one university hospital, somewhere, and therefore have two people - to the importance of having them in the country area, to offer such instruction, or, rather, more than at the National Hospital in Reykjavík. In view of the best possible use of this here, the majority of the conclusions are to hide a minister to look at these arrangements in neighboring countries and, on the other hand, to implement the role and operation of the medical home of Akureyri further in the Regulation. In my opinion, the main thing to note is that things could have been applied better by the bill itself. It might even be said that a deep discussion following the collection of information could have been essential to the bill, not something that is indicated in the modification of the majority of the section to the bill, which has been planned for consultation, and then during controversy treatment for the entire winter, in order to be maintained. Then, in the beginning of the bill, it was suggested that professional responsibility of head doctors and the head of nursing be canceled. As we have seen, the idea that the idea did not get a sound foundation, end alone, and, under it, people in general began to assume that professional responsibility would become disintegrated and blurred. The idea is expressed in the activities of the majority of the segments that produce the adjustment proposed by the material and that is well. On the other hand, I feel that it was inquisitive to consider how this kind of law goes all the way into the Generals Hall, following a procedure that most professionals agree on as far as it is perplexed and unattainable, including the surgeon's office. I think we could consider that if the thought is that it's a good thing to do it first, so if the reviews come back, then the Ministry takes it back, the case comes into Congress, the reviews and then back into the Senate room, that it's when it's on the subject of this sort of thing. I'm saying this isn't the first time that this proposal comes up, but it's a loose one, it doesn't seem like a good idea. The warning bell could have an earlier effect in the process. The bill also removes regulations on the design of health institutions and the health - care directors. Thus, the manager's extension is held in the bill, even as it was proposed despite repeated comments in the consultation process on this particular subject. The majority took into account the unanimous criticism of the elimination of the ship's ship's ship, taking into account the members of the Committee that the director should do such a series in consultation with the Commission, if such a management of the head of activity at the National Institute of Health and then introduce it himself, and then introduce the Minister to the ship, along with logic. So if it's the director's decision not to have the manager, he'll build his ship plan and introduce it to a minister, and thus he's determined on what it looks like, I think. But it does not change that the director's license was issued to have no ship plan and no manager, so that the ship is present, though interesting, to see how it might look when there is no manager, so it can be quite simple. However, there is a ship's tract, so some transparency sits there. The health - care programs were then very much discussed with visitors who came before the committee and in their reviews of the vast majority of them. The bill suggests a change in existing laws that apply to university education hospitals in order to have the medical staff and nursing staff and after other matters. This obligation was suggested to be canceled but replaced by the professional advice of all healthcare professionals within the medical institutions who were directors for counseling and support. The review of this change in the bill was that these two advisers were an important antidote to executive power, a power that increases with the bill, despite positive changes from part to part. Several evidences were presented that the work and authority of this class should be further advanced. Especially was the districts of the medical and nursing staff that described it to the Committee - How can I say it? - how their knowledge and willingness to communicate would be of little use despite the existence and role of these counsels. So the money was careful not to change it. The evidence is certainly that health care now changes substantially, and other professions may have a growing role in medical institutions. The 35 active groups, as indicated, now have some 35 active groups, and it is therefore reasonable not to rule out by law all but two. There's a lot to it. However, if the land hospital situation is specifically examined, there are 1,300 nurses, or so active today. Of course, many of the 35 professions that there are hardly dozens or dozens of them, so there is something that needs to be kept in mind as well. But the biggest opinion in these matters, with full respect for the self - esteem of these classes and the role they feel they have and can play in the work of the Land Hospital, is: What is their goal? It must always be improving our activities, providing management, and his closest co-workers and management team, and then secretary of counsel and professional management. I think that all of us who have worked somewhere where groups are worked or employed will realize that we are getting this together in a single piece of advice that is to be turned in to someone who is to be alone is not used. I think that's something we should have in mind primarily. I don't have the suggestion here, I'm not suggesting how to make this, simply because it didn't get the mature discussion on the committee that would be well enough to make us feel inferior to some proposal. And it's really sad because I think it's important to deal with such issues as this state of such solidarity that it doesn't need to be taken up ever and ever, but that we can come to some conclusion in consultation with professionals, that we can have the vision and understand how we want it to be settled, so that we can, in any way, part with the case. But I'm going to do just that, in the harsh comments of a professional who discussed the matter, there is an ongoing water supply, silence, and isolation. It's not good when representatives of the largest class of hospitals, because here we are talking about these two major hospitals, especially the Land Hospital, experience this bill of Health Ministers. This cannot be the proper way for a health - care minister to be selected. Then the Ministers' health policy is not good. But that's what it says now. These things are getting over with. There's quite a lot of change, and they're improving. It just wasn't far enough, which is another reason why I don't approve of this opinion, as if I could be an officer on a welfare committee. But the main reason is that I think there is more discussion and the need for us committees to understand why the speed was so high. Although it is good to define three points of service, much of what has been introduced into the institutions was proposed very quickly. Then, there was rather a strong stand in other matters without direct evidence. In view of the fact that the matter was taken off more than a week ago and was discussed here today, I would feel that there would have been enough space to discuss it better. But I'm gonna let this go for now. I don't know if this execution and what's left behind calls for us to stand here soon and talk about the issues that are going to last again on another bill. So be it. I just don't know what my final stand for this matter is. You may be able to vote on half the case and leave this behind. I'll do it for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u81	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a bill for a legal adjustment in health care, which teaches quite a number of grasses. It's the service level and the advice. It also deals with control, organization, role, and responsibility of managers. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for bringing us through the commissions and the adjustment proposals that came up, but the committee was not united in the matter. Throughout the centuries, health services are on old marrow, and they have developed, at the same time, at the same time in the rhythm of the times. Since the first medical doctor of Iceland's Icelanders, Hrafn Sveinbjarnarson's son, has spent a lot of water on his town of Island at Arnar Fjords 800 years ago and on many of them, both to sea and country. There, the government religious structure was not complicated, nor did channels interfere with the work. Throughout the last few decades, the level of technology, knowledge, and education has increased rapidly in the field of health, whether in the case of physical intervention or surgery or chemotherapy and new medicines. Our knowledge of this complex phenomenon that is growing as the human body grows, and we are not at the finish line. Similarly, professional understanding of the importance of psychological factors and their relationship with physical functions is constantly increasing but these factors were not well off on the platform, having difficulty getting approved treatments. Sadly, since then, prevention, preventive work, and health - control factors have tended to run the train, but professional understanding and assessment are also increasing as goals for working. The facts may be that this is a long - term project, and there are no clear and obvious benefits or achievements except over a long period of time, but we know these exceptions. For example, there is a change in the diet of the changed nation, a number of diseases that are on a large scale, even gone, and of course we know about prevention of smoking. In modern times, there is a complex development in health - care systems. Our largest health institutions are those of small towns, even with play - school services on their side. THE modern - day staff of professionals, as shown in the case of an authority, has a wide variety of professions, and it operates at about 35 of the country's listed health groups and other professional staff. Various growth pains have been accompanied by an increasing scope of institutional activity, and it seems that we have failed to develop the management culture in accordance with various other factors or public governance in general. Experience has indicated that there has been a lack of structure, progressive development and definition of business responsibilities, to adapt to modern requirements for effective control methods, and to explain processes. Several attempts have been made. For example, the position of the newly formed government business was the same as the case in the first century C.E. very much to be discussed in the mid - 1990's, under NPM markings, by permission of presidents, New Public Management. Now they have been laid aside, and have not stood the test of time, except for an average one, and from less. Once again, we come to the point that health care is a unique area in which the subjects are all about life, from start to finish, and the diversity that happens to each person in life. Business laws are hard to accept, but they are not relevant, though strong forces constantly glance at corners and want to market health care. Of course, it is up to us to market health care. There's enough demand for it. We have to be good at it. We have an example where things have gotten out of hand. We have an example of a mixed system, and with the best results, this is in order, but in general, we need to take a stand on the values to be determined, how we want to behave these factors. We have come to that conclusion, at least Yet for a time, that we can handle this jointly as a community and on the grounds of humanitarianism, not marketism. In this sector, the quality of the environment is not the same as in the traditional business environment. Unforeseen events arise, and it is difficult to make a prior assessment of them in many cases. As director of the health system for decades, I welcome all efforts to improve efficiency and to explain how operating procedures are being explained. Above all, the responsibility for a management field is clear, and penalties are also clear. For a long time, the position of the Supreme Rulers was very ill and in some respects quite to this day. A manager, as it was then, or a steward, was expected to care for an account and some other measure of human life; otherwise, head - to - nurse managers along with their important and specialized jobs after managing the management and organization of professional factors. Often it went well, but in the long run it didn't work out. Most of these individuals did not have knowledge, motivation, or time to carry out such assignments at hand. Political governments were placed over the medical facilities at that time, clinics, and hospitals. In many cases, this arrangement was debrided by interested individuals who had limited vision of a significant complex function. In addition, the director, or the manager they were then named, was directly under the minister and therefore did not directly have the authority over him. Thus, the governments were uninhabitable, close - up units of their time. The work of managers or directors, as men called them, was redefined according to law change, and the management role gained greater importance. For a long time, the position of responsibility for directors remained very vague. They were even sided with other professionals, were as important, and were interpreted in a somewhat free manner. Four points were very vague, often leading to little success in following the order of the minister and the General for the implementation of the budget. As health institutions changed in 2003, health officials, bone - related directors, and managers were placed in place as an important link in the management of health institutions. They should be director or manager to advise the Agency's activities and they should consult with them on all important decisions regarding the services and management of the Agency. Thus, his responsibility for the business and activities of the agency was conditioned in this way and was not definitive. This bill on which we will discuss is expected to remove the Commission's directive as a legal form, and thus overcome the responsibility and role of directors. Medical and nursing directors continue to be active at work and after reports by other professional managers. Article 13 of the current legislation on the subject is similar to that of the Commission, except that there is no need for the Director to submit to a professional committee. A greater proportion of the welfare committee contributes to this concern. to the final edition of its committee view, as shown by the manager. In the bill it is expected that the Minister should set up the procedures and regulations of health institutions. The role of professional in the bill is cut down, thereby highlighting a high degree of cross-cutting cooperation that is natural and timely but also necessary for a minister to set the order and role so that the normal balance exists between professional groups, which are certainly multiplicity in health institutions. This is a key element that must be ensured in Regulation because some key classes are not very large, but others may, on the contrary, be the dominant to the appeal number. There is a long tradition for the medical profession at hospitals, and the 2007 law says that at university and teaching hospitals there should be effective medical advice and nursing advice and after other procedures. This has to do with other health institutions, and it opens up to one profession. In the larger institutions, medical instruments have been very effective, but in smaller institutions, medical advice has been of little value in recent times. A respectable president. Now, important changes in health care legislation are still being made, adapting to a meeting resolution of health policy to 2030 adopted by the General Assembly in June last year. The goal is that the law reflects the emphasis on health policy. The focus now is that it is believed that today, as never before, the health - care law is a framework for a national health - care organization, a guide to be followed. These aren't minor changes, they're major. The bill and the signal for change are not indiscriminate. This is a sign of the nominees, the committee was not united, and the reviews are many criticisms, paying attention to such exorcisms. There is no denying that the bill involves significant changes, and it will become part of the work, organization, and functioning of health institutions. But, in my opinion, they're completely timely. What is divided in the environment of healthcare professionals according to this bill, I can imagine that the management factors and definitions of the boss's role as captain of the Bar. A little more is involved in the executive role, both in the administration and in the organization, in caring for responsibilities, and with full doubt that the director's responsibility is to ensure that it is made clear who is responsible for all levels of professional responsibility. Then there are definitions, such as a new three-class separation analysis of health care and definitions of each category. They're in general words, and they need my opinion on a reexamination. For secondary healthcare professionals e.g. no mention of rehabilitation services, an important component of all health care, all public health. It can be noted from the reviews of the committee and from the evidence that this has been discussed and that there has been a lack of agreement, but also that the smallest amount of rehabilitation services was highly criticized in the field of health care. This is an increasing aspect, and the importance is undisputed. The reviews of the bill that has been received teach a variety of grasses, and they are not all flowery or positive. Clearly, the bill is debated in a group of professional people, especially among doctors, and likely also among nurses, although voices may be found in many professions. A few list the fieldworks that one professional advice can hardly serve the target and so as not to be overemphasized by the directives that the director needs to submit to a business strategy on business factors. It is true to assume that this point was changed in a committee study. They point, for example. Iceland's Medical Association on Snuggle for definitions of three, a first, a second and a third phase, that they're too far off from public institutions that are not in harmony with the times of the century. This has been shown in talks today. The third stage is e.g. to a full extent, in the healthcare professionals' clinics, e.g. Orthopaedic surgery and assisted reproductive techniques, which are now only outside the hospital, outside public institutions. The medical community also points to the low level of hospital operations in the country and needs to be framed much better. Similarly, the medical care of the Land Hospital is hard to control, and it strongly criticizes the bill. A similar note is quoted in the review of the Sufra House of Medicine in Akureyri. This bill, as I've mentioned before, is quite radical on chapters, so many people think it's enough. It is happy that many aspects of the law are simplified and explained according to the change of time, it was needed. The role and responsibility of the director have become more clear than I for my part would have liked to see in the law a clear set of laws on don't-be-yielding managers, that they have real security, but it has been a major failure over the years. There has been a reference to the value of the law on government employees, but I blow it up and I think they need to be maintained even more, there's a lot at stake. They need to be met with demands of education and knowledge and a great deal of discipline in the workplace. More than ever, there is a policy on the individual roles of the institutions, set measurable goals, duties of directors, and effectiveness measures, both professional, business, and financial. It is absolutely necessary when directors are given so much authority as to what is expected of the individual medical institutions, what services are expected to be performed. I agree with Iceland's Medical Association that it's a small part of the regional hospitals that they leave behind. I had hoped that the projects of the university hospital and the teaching hospital against the country's settlement would be defined and that a busy service network would be put on medical care in the country. But as a whole, it's my opinion with a quick review that the bill has taken on progress. It has considerable innovation and change, and much depends on regulations, but it is in the power of a minister to set them and their content and distribution are important. It will be exciting to watch how the bill angers, whether or not it will change anything from the 2nd to 3rd. It is important not to be anxious about something, but this important matter is taken in a hurry and has not been given enough general discussion, since there are significant factors. It is delirium in my opinion to provide a bill of such massive activity with large groups of professionals who have key jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u82	Mr. President. We'll talk here at 2nd. bill to correct the change in health care legislation, in terms of the service stage, the staff, etc. As mentioned earlier, what has happened? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson presented the committee's opinion on the majority of the welfare committee and presented the proposed changes made by the majority. I don't think they're going far enough to respond to the many comments that have been made, since the bill is being handled by the government and now that it came here at the General Assembly. There were 25 reviews from various stakeholders and institutions, public institutions and organizations. A total of 14 envelopes and a red thread were passed by by the council, in effect, that consultations were little and little to be listened to. I have to say, I don't think it's because it's a very important bill. This will help to support the work being done by convincing on health policies that were very effective. Hence, if the bill goes through with the small changes the most part suggests, the end of that work may be somewhat sad. But only on the situation here at the Council. Now, there is a legal explanation here, and you need to remind the speaker here that the General Assembly is coming out of a very special three-month situation, not to speak more strongly, a condition that is due to the crown virus that has left on its side for several months. This morning, however, the convention of tourists, as it were, began at Leifs Station, and the entire community is really still very lame. A number of people are out of work, they have a wide range of health problems since then and so on. However, it is in the environment that it is decided to complete this matter, which would have been given normal and necessary publicity during a normal year's journey. Sadly, that was not the case. The welfare committee. True, we had guests, but unfortunately we did not have time to discuss the matter, and that has been true in the case of others who have expressed themselves here today. I pay attention to a number of things and agree with the reviews of many. First, though, I'd like to say that it's very good to be defined as a first, second, and third degree health care, but I'm worried that it's not being handled properly as far as aging services are concerned, what happens about paying health insurance and what happens if institutions have a third degree of service despite actually being a secondary provider. I feel like something is missing in the committee's opinion that, of course, it's gonna be that way and, of course, it's allowed to be done by institutions, because if they're doing it. But I feel that it is not entirely taken into account that it may be possible for health care providers to get in trouble when it comes to dealing with the paying person, i.e. Iceland's insurance insurance, for that kind of service. I'm worried about how the director's role is determined in this matter. At the same time as a number of members, especially on the right side of the center, have been calling for international hospital control, for the spread of power, and for ensuring that the director of health institutions does not have too much authority on their own but has to distribute the authority, on the other hand, in this bill. In fact, the director has the authority to do a shipwrite. He will. In this ship, he decides whether he will usually have the manager for his own good and trust, and he has a self - control plan. While carrying the ship under a health minister, he is very convincing, and this is likely to depend on the management of the Ministry and Health Minister how the matter would be handled, according to professional reviews, watering out so - called professional advice. It is now spoken of as having just one professional advice at a medical facility instead of many others. A lot of people criticized that. I'm going to quote the reviews of both the Land Hospital and the surgeon's office in this regard. The Icelandic Nurse's Office, the Félag of physical therapists, nursing staff, the National Medical Association, the National Hospital Medical Council, the Hospital's Medical Council of Akureyri, and the fact that I think all Reykjavík's Medical Association have criticized that the Council should become one after a change. A land hospital says, with the permission of a president: ▪ In one of the major conferences, the voice of the lower castes may not be affected, so this change may have the opposite effect in comparison with what is intended for it. Instead of these changes, it may be open to include one practical advice that may be considered suitable, particularly in smaller clinics. In larger institutions, it is not unusual that the professions that it wishes should have their own business rather than that it is designed to include the cooperation and consultations of the true team. It is very important that employees have a professional voice and a range of opportunities to make it heard within knowledge institutions such as health institutions. In addition, it is important that professionals themselves have the responsibility to tell whom they trust in sitting in the professional council. This comes from a land hospital that pays attention to having one big subject. This, too, came from all the professionals. And why? Yes, because these bodies have different viewpoints. I also wondered that the Council is appointed by the director, and in reality it is not defined as how the director commands it. The minister shall state the order and procedure of the Regulation, but there is no question about the type of classes to be placed there, how they should be found, etc. There we have the director of a health care agency that is extremely important, and he has the authority to determine whether he has a plan and if he has the Commission and the plan to be some sort of a security valve. Then you wonder about the Agency's business. In changing proposals, the majority have decided that major decision-making issues about the business do not have to be carried out under the Commission, which are generally the concern of the health sector. There are many things you think about when it comes to changing proposals and the work that has taken place on the committee. The surgeon general also made a comment on the definition of long - term health care, and I intend to quote the authority of the office. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ As mentioned in the previous review of the case when the case was being agreed, the office would have liked to see the definition of long - lived health services in the revised law, while it is clear that the supply and demand for such services is rapidly increasing. The Commission suggests that the lawgiver uses this opportunity with planned changes in the health - care programme and formally define what is meant by a long - term health care provider. This will no doubt make it easier for health professionals, institutions, and governments to understand on the basis of such services and sources to provide them. Then comes the review of the medical staff by a local surgeon. It says, by permission of the president: In view of the fact that there are a total of 35 identified health groups in Iceland, it is well recommended that this be done by law. It is important to consult the healthcare professionals in the setting of this Regulation. Now the medical professions have been very critical, so you wonder if this is a very reasonable arrangement. There was only a discussion. A weekly welfare committee whether it would be necessary to have an definition of long - suffering on the bill, as a surgeon's office points so clearly, both in consultation and in the direction it sent. A welfare committee, but much of it didn't have time for it. Then I come back to what was discussed at the outset, you sense the lack of understanding more part or minister of the situation that has been here. I realize that the Ministry has been rather busy and ministers, but it does not change that the council has been busy for the past three months, so it could not be won as necessary. The reviews of professional and professional classes to appear before the committees spoke of that by changing e.g. By altering and increasing so much the authority of the director, the classes would be using a measure of silence. This would not be discussed in the medical facility now. I'll let me believe that, despite everything, it's a good thing. Much of the welfare committee doing this thing well. Because of it and because I think it's also the best. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry's staff are doing it well, because there's a lot to do and there's a lot of pressure on health care, and this is a very important matter, and I don't understand why more is involved. The welfare committee did not allow a discussion. It has been put to the test in the past. The welfare committee on major issues and this happened, e.g. This morning regarding a review of non-small, non-meditated, very important law code. There, the spokesman authorized the case, please. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, discussed that matter, and I would like to commend him for doing so. However, I would like to give a second. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, also an executive in this case, has the opportunity to allow a discussion on this matter as well as on the committee. I think it's better to take back some time on this matter, allow comments that concern all these health groups to get to. So I suggest that the committee between the 2nd and 3rd be reinstated. Because I think it's important that we be careful. It's not good when we run too fast. This has happened before on the committee. Another case on the committee that protected consumption was driven through the committee in a comparable way, i.e. No discussion allowed, committee comments not allowed. But the case ran out of question for the staff of the Generals, who agreed that the committee's opinion was taken out of the committee. The majority would be incomplete, so it would have to be taken back into the committee, and it would work properly. I think the People owe it to them to be careful when it comes to something as important as a change in health care law. We owe it to all the professionals who work in medical institutions all over the country, to the surgeon general's office, to all these professionals, to the European Union and others, that we do not rush to cast the case off a committee just because it works in a professional way. That is why I suggest that the matter be called into question. A welfare committee between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u83	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna start by saying something like the Chairman of Who. welfare committees that it is desirable to take the case back to a committee. She quoted how a prominent speaker in another language handled that matter very well. It would be very good to have such a review in this matter. Here we will discuss health care, health care, etc. I'm going to start by mentioning the Hospital in Akureyri. Its policy shows that it wants to define itself as a university hospital. Today, a number of reports have been made, so I don't have to go over it, but I'm still going to cut down on a review from the hospital's staff in Akureyri. - Twenty-one. - Twenty-one. the management plan for health care (HCP) No. 40/2007 is the hospital defined as a teaching hospital and in a new way as a bill to correct a change in the law (s) - that we're considering ----- is the same as that. It is the work force opinion that legislation will establish the Agency's potential for further development. It is his opinion that the legislation that we may accept here would support the Agency's potential for further development. Previously, the role of the Hospital in Akureyri was defined as a teaching hospital, and this was determined by the hospital's position for the law's sentence in 2007. The review says that the work has become much more extensive. These include walking and day - to - day services, scientific work, and the role of teaching as well. In 2018 the University of Akureyri was authorized to study doctors. So the university is now studying at all levels of college, and it is good to have good cooperation between the University of Akureyri and the Akureyri Hospital. I must mention what was said at health conferences until 2030, which we agreed on at the last assembly and where the media sat. It describes the need to increase quality and safety requirements for health care. The review says: THE SAKs have been implemented in targeted quality management methods to ensure quality and security in all their activities and provide the basis for the hospital's having international quality of their functions. The hospital is the first medical facility in the North countries to receive such evidence. [...] The use of quality and success standards as well as progressive reforms based on new knowledge and equipment is increasingly emphasised. A powerful scientific and novelty of SAk is the theme of such reform work. My opinion is that the Hospital at Akureyri should be defined as a university hospital where science is engaged in the daily activities of the hospital, as defined by Article 4. song about a university hospital. In a new health - care minister's policy in medical research until 2030, there was a determination to balance the situation of national scientists and to use the so - called cohesive effect to meet together the necessary infrastructures to support a powerful scientific work. In my opinion, the Hospital is in Akureyri University Hospital. Only this activity and its role need to be recognized. I want to see how health care is gradually divided, where we deal considerably with it, and how those who render the ministry imagine what we are discussing here. Commenting on the medical staff of Akureyri Hospital, the president's permission states: We believe that this definition of the third degree of health care is inaccurate and inadequate, in contrast with the definitions of first and second degree services in the logs. The definition of the service, from one institution in the country, from a hospital to a State Hospital (LSH), or from an LSH conference alone, we feel wrong. What third service is rendered in Iceland, where and on what grounds? Quality monitoring of complex and special health care needs to be performed. Who will handle quality control and definition Phase 3 LSH service? The following events will include LSH and the prospective director of LSH, and the most powerful member for the third level service in Iceland. It would almost be that the Ministry of Health or the governor is responsible for the definition and organizing of the Phase 3 service. If this change continues, what will be the service that is already being performed, e.g. of SAk evaluated, reevaluated, and reorganized? I'm just going to shoot it in here that a lot of people who sent envelopes referred to noncommunications. Iceland's Medical Association made a few comments that I would like to agree, which most concern one of the views involved in changing 4. The law, which is a definition of what is called a third degree service and that it will only be granted in a university hospital or in a medical institution in consultation with a university hospital. It is suggested that a phase 3 service is also performed in the healthcare profession. There we can mention replacement operations and ARTs. The Medical Association also points to the rehabilitation program performed at Smokejamund and at the National Institute of Health. In other words, this has to be more defined. I don't feel clear and misleading about what is meant by referring only to health clinics, not hospitals. The will then is, as I understand this, to have only one university hospital, one teaching hospital, and then the rest will fall under medical institutions, despite being a hospital in a sheep's jar, for example. True, it falls under the National Institute of Health, yet it is a hospital. The National Institute of Health also falls under the health care of Akureyri. These two equally important institutions. A second - point service, as defined today, is performed at the hospital at a sheep's jar. Also, I will say how it is now known, that which is about to come. The members of the body say, on permission of the president: 13 a.m. The law requires the obligation of university and classrooms to use effective medical advice and nursing advice, and after the events of other procedures. - That means two institutions in Iceland. - With a 10. The bill is suggested to remove the law on such matters, but instead the cross-cutting advice of all professional health professionals within the medical institutions for counseling and supporting, is mandatory in the administration of a special health care committee in general confined to health institutions. I don't quite like this trend or the way it is, I don't quite understand exactly where we're going. Is it, then, a director who is responsible for medicine in the institutions? I'm asking. It should be noted that some comments protested. A review of the responsibility has been considered triphasic within the medical system. The director's handling, the responsibility for the cures of medical personnel and the responsibility for nursing in the hands of the director of nursing. Under the director of medical procedures, there has always been a head doctor who is responsible for his expertise. I allow me to say that the medical conference that we are discussing here must be focused on those who use the ministry and those who use the services, and those who use them, be sure where they are going to look for answers or conversation. A U.S. commissioner has twice, first in 2005 and last in 2018, made clear who is responsible. Medical treatment is and should be the responsibility of physicians. I'm just going to do a story on a ship plan, since it's one of the opinions that exist. I'm going to read the chapter that turns to a boat party in the committee list of parts, and maybe that's because I need help understanding that part. ▪ In the treatment of the situation, a comment was made on the removal of Article 11. The laws on the design of health institutions, thereby granting the director of health institutions one authority to make fundamental changes in the responsibilities and management of institutions. In this system, there is a risk that there will be insufficient perspective on the management of health care institutions. In this context, the opinions of the emissary Generalis, No. 984/1/2018, - believed as I mentioned before - a minister with a health care programme in order to verify the organisational structure under the health - care laws. It was then noted that in place of a confirmatory minister, the order of the administration would be given to the administration of a larger medical facility, which would include: It's the job of accepting a log. The majority agree with the above views that by unindicating the director to make the organization's shipwork, there is a risk of overlooking the health care organization. The majority believe that by means of a plan-to-be in consultation with the Commission, such management at the National Institute of Health according to the National Institute of Health and presenting it to a minister and to support the crew before it takes effect, the director of the Health Organization for the Management Board of the Agency is being maintained. So a greater portion suggests the adjustment in renderings of Article 11. The law will change according to the above. All right. I'm going to finish this chapter, with President's permission: With a 9. The bill is also removed Article 12. The law of the law states a duty to operate the Commission in a medical facility, led by the director. It may be that the management board is not always needed in a medical facility, since the activities of such institutions vary in size. In view of the greater part, a decision should be made whether or not a specific director of the medical facility is needed to be in the hands of the director and to appear at the organisation of the institution. I must admit that I find it very difficult to understand what this really means. That's why I'm very happy to get the case back in with a committee. I could be guilty of not being good enough to ask about this very point, but I had to read it very often and still not put my arms around it. It's the director's turn to introduce the ship to the Minister, not to get the approval minister. It says this, and it's the point that we were really worried about. We thought we were taking over the Director and putting responsibility for a minister, which is the director's way of presenting the ship to the minister before it's approved. Finally, I'd like to enter the surgeon's review, as many have done here. A surgeon will be very pleased to know that this is a structured service, if we can talk about it that way. It's claimed, and I think it's true, that this is how money can be used best. But not. A surgeon would have liked to see a better definition of long - term health care. More people have been accessing it here. I think, though, that the committee, at the short time it was being dosed, wanted to lie down trying to define it would not be achieved at this time. On the other hand, there may be a possibility of hurrying slightly more slowly and getting into the direction that we can place in distant health care. So it's all open. In fact, that task is assigned to a group, the greater part of it given in its opinion, and it will result in a result of June 1, 2021. It's a little late. I have to agree with the words that occurred earlier today that we are now 2020, and we have not yet defined how we are going to have our long - term health care. As I've traced, surgeon surgeon generals are skeptical about professional responsibilities within the medical institutions. It is important that this responsibility be entrusted to those with the greatest knowledge and professional skills in every area. This is what I wanted to say about it. I can't see that the Central Party is supporting this bill. There are such flaws that pressing the green button is not really justified, as it is called. I expect we will not support the matter, rather be contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u84	V.E.G. President. We in the Middle East will not vote for this matter, but I am very glad that the case has been called back to the committee, I believe it is fully needed. The matter is not easy, e.g. only one university hospital, with good reasoning, is said to be there, but the objections also exist. Those in the labs who hear about private business that has worked very well are not taken into account, so we will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u85	President. We're going to sit down on this. This is mainly because it is one of the cases taken from the committee before we were able to complete the good discussion that had begun on the committee. It's work that we're about to work on now; we're going to have a full discussion about the committee's opinion, and we'll finish it before it's finished from the Committee, so we're sitting by for now. I think it's a good conclusion that the case is taken back to a committee, and hopefully we'll be better able to settle the matter there before it gets through 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u86	Mr. President. There are many fine and important matters on the trip that are based on good work in the Senate arrangement for health care approved at the council. Sadly, though, the bill is not well worked. There were quite a number of reviews, which were not taken into consideration. The case also received quite a number of reviews here, which unfortunately have not been met and have been discussed by an extremely limited dose at the turn of the day. The welfare committee so that we in the United States can't vote for it. Has the matter been called to a committee, and I hope that the committee will agree to allow the discussion to take place, because I believe that in this important matter, it is important that we try in cooperation rather than divisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u87	Mr. President. This is a case that is good in many respects. These three stages of the ministry are positive, but the fact is, it is very rapid that certain aspects of the ministry are proposed to important health institutions. Other factors take a very strong stand without much discussion and, in fact, without moisture. We in revere have not been able to vote for this matter, even against it because of the payment. But now it has been called into the committee again, and in view of that, we will sit next to it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u88	A respectable president. I have to explain that I agree with those who have preceded me to see that this matter is important, but unfortunately, there was no discussion. That I have been torn out of the committee to the dissension of some members of the committee, which makes me feel very poor and kind of amazing. But I really hope that we take the case back into a committee and we do it properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u89	Mr. President. Here we vote for a change in health care law that has been involved. A welfare committee for six months. We've held many meetings on the subject. More than two days in advance, efforts were made to take the matter out at a meeting of the committee. Almost a complete meeting was taken on the committee to discuss the matter. If the person feels that there is not enough work to be done and that it is not good enough for a person not to reach a complete agreement on all the issues before the council, he is likely to discuss the matter at another meeting in the committee. I will work hard to make it all go well. But I'll dismiss this as a bad job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u90	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee for a proposal for a five-year transport programme and a transport plan for 2020-52034, i.e. A 15-year transport plan. I'll tell them what to do. I'll tell them what to do. The president went over. I will strive to review the main points of the committee's opinion, which are on 29 pages as well as the package of tablets, but it will not be time for all aspects of this opinion to be considered. But in the beginning, I wanted to mention that in transport programmes are filled with goals and emphasis and work with the various government plans for transport. Under these conditions, all national ports and airports, marine and public air and air transport, so there are a number of factors to take, besides various administrative projects, including traffic safety programs, various research and diagnostics, and so on. First, I'd like to review the work of the Committee and thank you for the cooperation of the Committee and also thank the staff of the Alleglers, especially our Committee Editor, a great deal for good work and good cooperation, it went very well. I think that I can almost claim here that the committee in general is very agreeing in this category and has a very similar emphasis, although not everyone is on the committee's opinion, but it came to the very end. So I believe that members of the committee are close to each other in this and have similar emphasis. The case was presented at the World Council of November 30, 2018, and discussed in December so that we have had the matter done for a considerable time on the committee and have changed much since then. In that light, I'd like to start by explaining how we can see it. It is assumed that the transport programme will be fully funded and fully in line with a financial program adopted for five years. There's a whole line between here and there. The PUBs and the Committee to make adjustments are within the frameworks of financial planning and budgets in which they give each of us, reaching out for the work of the Committee on this matter. We received many reviews and arranged many visitors to review this extensive matter, and it is clear that the need for transportation is quite cumulative in Iceland. There are many things that create that need. Many would like to mean that we have been behind in the construction of the transport system for a long time, and some have mentioned as long as a decade, and reports have been made that the cumulative need has been up to 400 billion. There's been a lot of things. Business life is developing, developing, and building up a more varied field of employment around the country. Travel will be one of the people's basic roads and such. This changes the challenges and makes them more varied and adds to the need for the construction of transport and all their kinds. We also see the trend, along with the changes in employment, that rural areas are increasing, and even more schoolchildren who have to drive a long way to school, as well as together schools, rural communities. There are so many factors that affect the need for construction and service in transport, any structure or snowstorm, or the frequency of public transportation plans and such. All of this must be kept in mind. Then it should also be noted that it has been over a year since we agreed on the last transport plan. Then this requirement was clearly stated. That is why we are reviewing the transport process now. The Commission then proposed to the Council for Transportation, a project to expand transport options. There were many things that had to be added to make the construction more possible, both to increase the funding and to provide an overall vision. We required that the transport program be adjusted sooner on the basis of these factors. What has happened since then is that a financial program approved for 2018 that was to be established since 2018 was adopted for a three - year period of 5.5 billion on transportation. The financial program adopted in the spring of 2019, agreed to add 4 billion annually for the next five years of transport, so there is a considerable increase. Then came the council proposal and funding at this assembly, in March, rather than April, where the Council approved 6.5 billion more for transportation. This is the additional funding that has come in and has been set aside for transport, and part of it is the adjustment proposals that we now propose because of Congress resolution No. 28/150, about a special temporary investment initiative. But there is something else that has been taken into account in the revised transport program that we now discuss. The focus has been added from a new flight policy, there are emphasises from a new policy on public transportation. Since then, there has also been a transport problem for the capital area, which also increases the transport funding and accepts part of the challenges I faced earlier. An analysis on the Eastern soil has been added, and analysis on the Sunway has been added. This is also a proposal for quick work on the foundation of road transport as co-works and I want to see that now there is a legal bill for the management of an environment and transport committee that is involved in this work of cooperation. But all of this plays together, and all of it is designed to bring us into the vital development of transport. So this is extremely important. We now have major adjustments in the transport strategy proposed in November. these are to respond to and update the transport program compared to an investment campaign for 2020, which I mentioned earlier and a few of the changes we will make in the policy cycle of transport. I'm just gonna slide over it for a minute. We suggest, in terms of easy transport goals, that port policy and a vision will be developed for interaction reject other transport. We think it's extremely important. There are many important and large rejection projects either within the weight of the load, or they want to stay out of policy plans or plans for the future so that they can be handled and prepared. We also suggest the change at the far point on easy transport to be working on an analysis at the airport, and they stipulated according to their role. In this regard, we want to place much more emphasis on the use of different airports and their role clearly so that airports can be run and budgeted according to the use to be used. In terms of transport safety targets, we suggest that the reporting of transport accidents and other events be improved and coordinated and that the registrations be maintained electronically. We have a lack of this, that we feel, that there are so many accidents in the traffic system that never return to a uniform accident log, and since they need to be added to help deal with black spots or road accidents, to reduce the number of accidents in the public. We also suggest that these measures will be analysed to ensure that environmental correction techniques through national satellite guidance, such as those of Iceland's involvement in a new European Space Programme and that negotiations will be rejected by the European Commission on the enlargement of the EGOS services area to cover Iceland. This is of utmost importance in terms of flight security, and it was widely discussed with the committee and others, and it is important that this goal be made available. Thereby, for the purpose of economic transport, there is an additional addition of the new figures to the development of long-term geological policy that contributes to the professional priorities of implementation. It is of utmost importance that we receive relevant information, such as the rejections, about what funeral projects are expected, and there are studies, geological research, national benefits, community analysis, and so forth. This is one of the plans we plan to add to the plans that have already arrived. We'll make proposals to add to positive development goals. First of all, a regional road directive will be reviewed on the basis of local settlements and changes in economic practices, particularly on road conventions and on the grounds of development, maintenance and registration of local roads from road record. There will also be an analysis of the geographical position outside the root system and there will be a longer-term need for improvements. This has to do with the tourism services and the use of the central and national, national, and other peaceful areas. What access are we going to have, and how are we going to make this? It has to be said that today it is a great jungle, there are different roads in the highlands, and there are different roads and different processes, whether the roads are over their heads or not, and there are excerpts of how they should be made. These are the main changes we make. There will not be time here to review all the changes we have made and the ones we make, but I would like to mention that the other suggestions we are doing are based on the work of the Commission and this great demand for the construction of transport plants where a transport plan needs to be followed by a financial programme as I came in the past. Now, the situation is due to the Covid and the bill we were agreeing to here just before, that a financial plan we expected would be submitted this spring and we would be agreeing to this point has been delayed until October 1. We cannot present any real - life changes in our transport plan now because we do not know whether it will be financed or not. So we need to wait until the autumn to see what funding will be provided in the building of transport. It has been discussed how to contribute up to 60 billion in an investment campaign by the government until the end of the three - year year period, 2021/2023, and it can be expected that a large part of it will go on transport compared to the experience we now have from the latest investment program by 2020, mentioned earlier. So we take the approach to building on the Committee's work, setting up priorities for the Committee and its suggestions on how to expand transport resources during the three years, 2021, 2022 and 2023. There are documents of the committee's opinion. There you can see, funding under these financial proposals in the fall, that the Environmental and Transport Committee will provide changes to the transport program, which harmonizes with the emphasis found in this committee and from the documents and tables that are there, and that it is the most reasonable way to work it out by the council and by the nature of it. I hope this is as clear as possible. There's a lot of important work to do. It's very important that this work. And what emphasis have we put on this? The plan is to follow up on the projects that have begun or are in the design and preparation now, are either started or are about to start, following the 2020 investment programme, that they will be combined. Then there are also other important infrastructure projects, such as continuing efforts in building blocks, such as, for example, much community and industry. Then there's a big operation inside that has to do with rejections, like, for example. The construction of the coven in the Sports Harbor to accept safely the freight transport and passenger transport from the continent of Europe and the rest of it. With regard to airports, it is important to complete the development of airports, improve the safety of reserves, and much more that may be considered. All of this is under our objective of making easy transportation, safer transportation, and positive development. Then, in this context, there are natural climate issues all around. You should keep that in mind. Those were the big lines. So, as time goes on, I'm going to go a little deeper into each team. That's where I'm gonna start with the financing because it's been a lot of talk and it's a big part of it. The premise that all the construction and services of the road system are being carried out is funding. Then I'd like to assume that the road system is one of the largest single holdings of the state fund to a minimum of 750 billion, and it needs to be maintained. As this property grows and grows, the need for service and the cost of service is increasing. For example, after you separate your road policy on Hellishraki, you are affected by the road that may need to be adjusted up to every other week. It's a new cost. At such locations, snowstoms are more expensive, perhaps increasing traffic and other activities. As the number of roads is increasing and the need for more habitats increases in the number of snowscapped and in the maintenance and service of roads, so we should not forget that these factors are growing. This was much discussed with the committee. Perhaps now it is good to mention that for one of the hurrying projects now, a project planned for the next year, fixing a bishop's dot of honour, there were 350 million. K. moving from 2021 to 2020, using funding for the above - mentioned investment scheme. The Commission suggests that the 350 million released in 2021 will be set aside for maintenance because of the importance of maintaining this wealth, securing traffic security, and preventing the loss of investment. It's the adjustment proposal we make. In other ways, in terms of funding, the overall re-evaluation of the future financing of the project management system at present, which is taking up all of this, is energy exchange e.g. and we've been looking at the suggestions we're going to propose for a general payout. Then we've talked about user fees in a tunnel that needs to be accepted into that job. One suggestion for the current transport program, when adopted, was to record user expenditures in a tunnel that are due to meet some of the natural cost of the soils and even the cost of implementation so that there can be an increase in land ethics. They need to create that policy and allow it to connect to the overall policy of the funding of the road system. Then there is the aforementioned bill of cooperation on road projects, where the private and public work together to build up, and it is thought that it would receive the unique projects that would enter that way. Thus, efforts would be made not to have paid higher than the benefits of shorter, more efficient, and more secure route. The transport agreement between the state and six rural communities in the capital area is expected to adopt user bills, so called quick and traffic charges. It also speaks of financing through sales in the Netherlands. In addition, rural society will promote counterproduction, and it will be addressed in a transport programme as well. There is an increasing funding for transportation, and it is possible to rejoice that a ten - year construction stop in the capital area is about to come to an end sooner than later. Then I wanted to mention the investment campaign I just came in from before, 2021/2023. There was a little look at sales of the government's parts in financial companies, but maybe it's better to watch the next few years of government sales, we need to check it out. All of these are the ways that have been discussed and considered now and that call for a full review in these matters that we plan to be in the first place to 2022, but hopefully not later than 2023. This should be done and the next time a transport program is reviewed. It should be submitted and reviewed every three years. One of the priorities of the current transport program is the founding routes out of the capital area, the greatest international effort would be to complete them and increase their safety. What I've always said and maybe should have started by saying that transportation matters are the best welfare issues. All transport activities increase economic growth. It reduces the number of road accidents and the cost of society, and it is a natural social recovery. It will be more practical to run a business, home, and community all like that. So we rightly stressed the busiest and the most disaster - building roads from the capital area. Part of that project has established a budget within the capital contract and then prioritizes the extra money that came to transport to finish the rest. It is extremely important to get on with it, for example. to complete separation of road policy and the doubled Rhines track from the Krysu Visa Lane meets and up to the airport, where most people go at least once a year while flying. It's one of the most efficient roads in the country, but unfortunately one of the most accidents. I'm not talking about how important it is to finish the Southland road and the Westland road. This has come, one of the main points, for a hurry and has moved forward, which is important. This is what I wanted to enter the capital contract and to know that in terms of the funding I discussed before and related to the capital contract, it is assumed that if you want to accept a quick or user fee on the basis of the capital contract, it will be necessary in some way to obtain the approval of the General Assembly. Now we are accepting a certain portion of the capital contract through a transport program, a set of priorities for action, and the funding that has already come and so on. We stress that any change in the covenant must come through a transport program and be approved by the General. We also want to emphasize that as important as the capital problem is, because it introduces so many things in increasing transport infrastructure and diversity of transport in the capital area, in planning, financing, and in implementing important projects, it is also important that all parties respect this agreement. The agreement doesn't work out. It is clear that in the agreement there is a review of terms, so if its main aspects are not fulfilled, the agreement can be revised and even canceled. The point of the agreement is, for example, The review of light controls has now been made, so hopefully it will go fast. But what may have been more challenging is to start projects that are early in the transport program, such as a road cross between the Rhineway and the Boest Road, and then the Eaglenes Road is scheduled for the next year. It is then important that organizational matters be cleared up, as well as all other organizational matters. It is also linked to this official society that is on the agenda below for these two matters. That society is somewhat concerned with holding both the funding and the progress of performance, priorities, and so forth. I think it's important to be followed. Now is the time for my first talk to be over. I've been here to review our main emphasis, our main changes and how all of this is under consideration, and hopefully this will explain it. There are a lot of emphasis in the Committee opinion and details that explain this in more detail, e.g. on page 24. 12 has crossed the tunnel we recommend to be examined in order to produce plans. There are many such assignments that we take to be carried out, how they will be carried out, and how they will be taken into consideration. Other than that, I refer to this detailed review of the committee and its accompanying documents, hoping that the General will accept this with a good basis for the work we are doing in terms of a financial agenda in the fall, that the emphasis is clear here, and we are united in funding it on financial and financial programmes in the fall so that these projects and plans will be achieved here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u91	A respectable president. This is a great plan for transportation. I wonder, " Is there any way that an authority can make it work? ' We know that 20, 30 years ago, there were plans for a higher road. He disappeared. There's been a lot of talk about the Sunway over the years, and there's nothing coming in. As far as I can see, we're talking about Akureyri Airports and some investments. I understand that in the program, the radar system has gone off to something, needs a new one, and it costs billions to renew it. I don't see if it's in a budget to do that. I'd like to ask you what. A senator knows what the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He points out whether a transport program will survive. There may be more recent work plans and demand that a transport plan be financed, that changes are not being made, or that they are putting forth some effort unless financed. As I trace, there are various ways to make sure of that. It is now more than ever, since it is mentioned in a transport program. It is part of the capital Convention that the strategy needs to be completed. So she's in good shape. However, for the transponder system at the Akureyri Airport, just one of the objectives of the adjustment proposal is to emphasize that the ELTOS system will be revised using a so-called correction system, and there are several types of work going around it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yeah, but I'm not happy because if we just take the Roadway, it was starting to squeeze. And we know there seems to be some opposition to it yet, at least in Reykjavík. In some strange way, they seem to want to go some way of getting it, because they always seem to want to squeeze more and more into it, as was the way they were before, when he disappeared. It has been decommissioned because the way was through Gardentown, which was kind of depressing because it's ridiculous to let everyone drive through two, three rural communities just to go west or north, instead of going over town. But for the town of Akureyri, we must first secure the radar system at airports and make sure that even if it costs billions, we'll take it and take it down so that it's okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u94	A respectable president. One of the great advantages of the capital contract is linked, for example. A dissemination from organizational matters. Like what? A senator correctly entered the city of Reykjavík during the Sunday weekend, and he showed some sort of organizational violence in this case. However, by means of the transport contract in the capital area, the city authorities commit themselves to complete a organizational swimming process. It is important that all parties accept the agreement because otherwise they cannot be fulfilled, and this is part of that agreement. And then you said "whipped." A senator's way of building and stuff like that. Part of the organizational agreement is that it is a transport river through the area of the capital, which is then disintegrated, which is said to be a waste of transportation through the capital area. It's very important. And we're putting tremendous emphasis on the radar system like what it is. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u95	A respectable president. There's a lot to do. I'm gonna see what I can get over. First, I agree with the greater portion that celebrates a vision of the analysis of funerals, since it is important to have some overall vision based on professional grounds. But I'd like to ask you how the senator feels that he is messing with the PPP. A specific kind of project has been replaced by your professional priorities. The way to access the PPP list is to fit into a certain financing model, but not necessarily the national needs of the project. Got it. The senator's approach is called on, especially when we see that PPP costs, according to the bill on them, 20 to 30% more than the government? It's also unclear, if there's any reference to the Ministry's memory on that matter, whether these accounts put their work above their heads by going into Part A, which is actually the main purpose of creating the PPP system as a way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u96	A respectable president. The main difference between these two routes is that where the approach is to the soil tunnel, it would be done through a transport program and by the general charge of landwaters. It is viewed as a bit ambiguous, so we are speaking of priorities within the team; however, we are working together to offer an alternative to speed up important projects. Then the cost may be paid for the user, for such projects do not enter a general global benefit analysis and all these major research, that the user pays the target to speed up this project. I think that was really good in the Haggard tunnel, and that's the model we're doing here. However, these projects need to meet certain conditions and economic calculations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u97	A respectable president. Just a little bit about the climate. The majority of these reports that it is important that road development should come up with a projection on transport energy exchange and the climate impacts of transport. I'd like to ask the senator how this rhymes with the government's contract, which states that the government is planning that all the larger plans in the state are determined by climate change. This schedule was not evaluated that way; nor was the last transport plan. Is it been suggested in the Commission that the road model does something that the government groups three years ago decide should be done with any plans and has not yet been done? Because this is a Sunway committee, it is natural in this context because all the assessments in it indicate that it will increase the amount of traffic and thus increase total traffic in the capital area and have a negative impact on climate. I wondered, " Is it normal at this point to place the extra weight on the Daffy Way by attaching it to the theme text rather than discussing it in a report as originally suggested? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u98	A respectable president. If I start with the Sunway, they could calculate rapidly by rapid energy exchange and by any of the things that we're going to walk out here. But all transport plans depend on the government's policy on climate issues. It's perfectly obvious. What we're pointing out, especially about the roadmaking and the emphasis as far as possible. A senator mentions, has to do with electricalization rejection. The road has to do with ports and other projects and is a guide for them, and therefore we feel important when it comes to transport energy exchange, and we have a climate fund and other means, to have the road structure, which has knowledge of ports, when other agencies are working on such issues in government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech and an excellent review. It is clear that much work has been done in the Committee on These Plans and that there is considerable debate in the conference hall. What I would like to ask, though, is why. In fact, there are discussions about large investments that are being made, of course, according to a project. The city line has quite a factor in all the plans we see today and in the agreements and meeting laws to take place. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that in the programmes we are considering now, and possibly the additional contracts or checks we have in the council, the costs of the government have been carefully framed to take part in improving public transport in the capital area? Is that clear enough? Is this absolutely set aside the total cost of the Icelandic government to participate in the cityline project?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u100	A respectable president. No, I think it's perfectly obvious that the cost isn't quite complete, because it's not just about a city line. There is much more work to be done in the capital. Therefore, I believe it is so important that the official body society, which is also on the schedule today, will be established for that work to be started, fully developed by both partners. Today, this work is mostly carried out by a collaborative agreement with a capital firm or with a city observatory so I believe there is a natural rhythm in these policies. Then I'd like to point out that with a transport program, the city line will not be fully started in the next three years, but the transport program will have been revised. In the process, therefore, the plan will be reviewed several times. It can then be updated based on the latest information, assessments and research.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u101	V.E.G. President. I think it's very important to know what the state estimates is that it's a big part of the city line. Are we talking about 10 billion or 100 billion? It doesn't work out that mine knows to go out on an open check. To say, in effect, " We're going to reevaluate what we will be in the future. ' It is of utmost importance that the strategy for building up a city line is absolutely clear if the State is to accept any commitment because of this great project, which is clearly in its normality, and in effect, difficult to pay at the end of the day. Other sources of experience show this. I'm surprised if we're going to finish the plans and agreements we have here, we're not sure how much this huge project will cost. At any rate, I imagine that once people get out of the way and leave the first miles, or what they call it, they'll say, "You can't cancel it. " The cost of 200 billion is not the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u102	A respectable president. It is clear that we are not offering an open check. We set up a project and a government fund that puts out no more work than what the State approves. There is then who are the first steps in which the government fund is about to place capital funds. Then I'd like to point out that this is transport infrastructure. For example, funding is not being put on buying buses or building up some system of conduct. It has been emphasized that these are about the construction of infrastructure rather than the operation. They're much more than just a city line. It is agreed to build priority lanes that are useful to the current public transport systems and a prospective urban transportation system, and then bicycle and walking and general traffic. That way I can't see we're making an open check.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u103	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for the history of committees on a five-year transport program. That's a lot of stuff. I just want to kill on what the senator said about what has changed because of Covid and its contents. The senator spoke of a plan to be established and to take up the work that had begun or that was about to begin, which had already been decided. Is there anything he can tell us about that? I'm aware of the uncertainty in this matter, but can we just shoot at how much this situation is going to change and if there's going to be a recession in the plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u104	A respectable president. Even now, after the arrival of Covid, the funding in the program has increased by 6.5 billion. There may have been one of the few lights in this situation. Transport and transport projects are very suitable for economic pressures. There is a wide range of projects and projects that can be distributed throughout the country so as not to expand. Small tasks that are much more ready and that can be started quickly to produce the effect. Also, larger projects can be started. There is an even greater plan to expand transport in the financial program during the fall. We just don't know what size it is, but we put certain sizes on our priorities and hopefully they will work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u105	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I'm aware of the extra money they put in on this case. But there has been a natural discharge from the state fund because of the situation, and this also must be affected. But I realize it's hard to answer. It also showed that the senator's need for maintenance increases due to a larger road system. It also showed that we were ten years behind ourselves in the process of transportation. Is there anything to say about it, or is it in the opinion that I haven't made, how much of the maintenance need has increased?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u106	A respectable president. Each increase in the maintenance need may not be clear, but according to the performance of the road structure, and what has been observed, it would be natural that some 11◯13 billion a year would be in maintaining the road system. Three, four years ago, we just had 61.7 billion in maintenance, but we're up to about 11 Now and we're giving a billion extra this year for a certain maintenance, as well as 350 million that we last made our priorities. I think the road could be maintained for an additional 152 billion, and this would help to provide the maintenance need and would be up to the performance right here in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u107	Mr. President. We've been listening to the Commission's opinion of more part of the environment and transport committee. I'm here recommending the Committee's Article 1 of the same committee's proposal for the provision of transport programmes for the period 2020/2024 and the 202020/2034, leading up to a greater extent of environmental and transport practices under specific circumstances. The global COVAD-19 epidemic has led to collapse in many areas of employment, increasing unemployment, and a significant reduction in practical projects. As a result, government funds have suffered a major loss of income but, in the same way, huge expenses. There is no end to the epidemic and its scope of financial expenses. Thus, it is estimated that the financial basis for a transport program is unusually diseased. In view of the lack of information on how financial policies, financial programs, and financial laws for the next year are available, many are uncertain. A smaller portion of the study will address the main objective of the extensive transport programme of five and fifteen years of age, but it will do much warning. To a small extent, they are concerned about individual tasks or tasks, but much more about visions and emphasis, which are being clarified in terms of this. The energy exchange in road transport has begun, but in a transport programme, transport infrastructure for automobile electricalization is not a significant factor, beyond the limit of the limit of the introduction to environmental energy use in public transport and support for new environmental technologies. There is a need for major efforts in this area as well as in many other areas of climate and environment if Iceland is to achieve the target of the Paris Treaty. A transport program does not mention flying electricalization or preparation for the electrical revolution ahead of us in air transport, even over the next few years. To begin with, which is 90 minutes or less. Federal Parliamentary Parliamentary Congress officials proposed to hide transport and rural management to help ensure that every flight less than 90 minutes will be electricalized by the year 2040. The most considered flight is domestic, public, and teaching flights. The development of electrically powered aircraft is fast at this time, and many companies in neighboring countries have come far to develop machines that would work out well in national flights. And what's happening in Iceland? There is no aircraft available with these features. We're sitting by with our hands. It would be a pleasure if the Icelandic government cooperated with a private host and placed a purchase on a machine to test the situation in Iceland and tried here in a challenging environment to prepare us for what will come. A smaller portion of the rights for these topics will be put first. Electricisation is a major matter of interest and referred to the interpretation of the energy exchange programme. 18/146 since 2017. A smaller section shows that the goals set there will not be reached unchanged in this transport program. Extensive infrastructures have to be removed, but according to the findings of the Commission, there is no shortage of technical solutions to ports. It is the infrastructure that needs to be trusted, as it were in other areas. In the Prosecution Convention, Independence Party, and Left Forces movement, for Government Cooperation and Administrative Service, the Government aims for all the larger government plans to be determined by climate goals, as expressed in the contrary. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson earlier. A climate change strategy shows that energy exchange in transport is one of the two main priorities of this strategy and that energy exchange in transport can be viewed as the same eye as the heat industrialisation. However, it is not obvious that ambition in these activities has been achieved in a transport program. The overall review of the future funding of the road system is offered. It is suggested that there will be new funding routes, but there are no suggestions for the material to be available or exported, and it is totally unclear how these measures will be conducted. Technical solutions can be found, the extent of the currency cannot be found in this document or other possibilities. A reduction in 1st part of the warning about excessive charge of public road routes within the country of its environment, reminds us of the Norwegian experience in the environment where road charges are faced with increasing public opposition. A transport program offers user fees in all landways, but it does not discuss any further information at this point. A lesser portion violates such explicit measures and considers it unacceptable that inhabitants who have no choice but to drive through tunnels in their habitat will take on further laws. It is reminded that road users have, e.g. When paying the bills for Höfjörður completely and reinvigorated, they are reluctant to resume their mission. A smaller portion will agree with the importance of the implementation of plans under the transport contract of the capital and the necessary laws here at the high General Assembly as soon as possible. Furthermore, the arrangements under the Treaty will be prioritised for easy traffic in a quick and effective manner. It highlights a smaller portion of the light control as a suitable, quick, effective option that pays for traffic, reduces delays, and reduces emissions. A transport program suggests six cooperation projects in the road, a so-called joint cooperation project (PPP). This project is available in the East, in Southeast, in the West, and in the capital area, in the Southland. The work is different, and their funding has not been defined in any way. 1 less part of the warning that the infrastructure of the road system is funded in this way and without careful assessment and consultation with stakeholders in the respective areas. There is considerable lack of this strategy, e.g. profit analysis, payment wish for population, social impact and rural development, etc. In a joint work (PPP), a private agency will handle total, partial, or otherwise take on the financial risk of the type and operation of public construction, with the authority to pay prior to use. It is important that the Council more clearly define the concept of cooperation in road work. A smaller portion is considered to be a formal definition of which this definition can be carried out with regard to the establishment of the State Fund. We need to realize that such cooperation can take place in other ways than just building a road. It may be public institutions that can establish these signals. More than one part of the European Environment and Transport Committee reports that with a variety of funding, but only government funds are able to speed up projects, promote and strengthen structural development and development. A smaller portion of the section is a warning against this argument and considers it to be a number of weaknesses; it shows that the experience of other nations is that such projects are probably more costly than other options offered. This is a major subject today when government funds have access to very favorable loans on very low interest rates. In this context, we can also refer to the recent history of the Icelandic car owners of 662 C.E., which is this work on a road project that can be found on deck. 1122, which says that the Society counts, after careful inspection, that the cooperation projects on the budget will be up to 33% more expensive than if the government financed the projects, one third more expensive. What does that mean? And what philosophies recommend other ways? Are they representatives of an independent group, where people talk about confidentiality and politics and think that they have great business opportunities? Is it the favorite party? Yeah. Is that the group of left motors, ◯ green supply? These are the categories that recommend this route. The first minor part points out that winter services do not seem to be a priority for the population of scattered settlements and money spent on these projects, they are the same as the total transport programme period of 2020/2024, which is not acceptable. It is one way to increase the safety of road users during the winter, while the arrangements for driving are totally unexplored and discussed and not defined, e.g. on the side of the road, which has even warned against such an arrangement. It is therefore welcome that, for the first time, a policy for Iceland is introduced and must be ensured by the development of the different Istavia approach. As a precautionary rate has not yet been adopted, this material is considered in the transport program. This needs to be shaken as soon as an important revenue team. An internal flying pool is somewhat confused and encourages a smaller section of the 1st of the world's basic ideas on the classification of the country's airports, referred to in the Summit of the greater branch, to become a reality, and defined smaller airports get to serve some of their role as international airports. It can be small, but it can be a practical option when we think about the future. There is no overall decline in Iceland's ports, and there is an urgent need to make a quick first approach. Many ports need maintenance even now, others need to increase the rhythm of the times. Even the next year an additional amount of money will be estimated at 2.2 billion annually. A transport plan does not guide this need to be done. Mr. President. Then I'll have finished reviewing this minority opinion. Under that which is written by him, the Guðjón of the son of Brjánsson Brjánn. I've done a lot of research, and as mentioned earlier, it is less than 1, that the basis for the plan is unusually ill, and there is reason to fear that the government will take the bad decision to cut down, contracting sails in the light of circumstances. That would be delirium. Under prevailing circumstances, questions about life are important to the muscles and to deal with, in turn, for the future. The situation is calling for action far and wide across the country. We have an example of stock roads that are inaccessible, e.g. Forest streets, as well as the urgency of the project as fast as possible, have hopes for the recovery of short - term milestones this year. In the West, about 14% of the country's roads are available, with about 60% of roads without erosion. Three rural areas in a Western country are among the ten rural communities on a national scale, where most roads are not bound together. This is the case, and all of it is a number of ways in which tourists make themselves at home. In the debate on the unity of rural society, which has been prominent and the government has spoken about, their reduction and expansion, the key key is that the motivation will be inserted that involves the support of voluntary and safe transport so that the work and service facilities can be built. The same is true of land - surrounding trajectories. The way through flourishing forces is difficult, since schools are considerable and the current of tourists all year wide, such as the year when they are traveling around the world. Waternes near the Hunsafa but in these parts of the country, they have some of the longest ways to go to school. A respectable president. This transport program declares willingness to improve, but, earlier, all projects are dependent on financing, and it certainly was shown in the case of the prominent, sharp. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, all of this depends on financing. And now there's a lot of uncertainty about funding. I think we should be realistic and discuss it openly. A transport program minimizes the concept of America's flight patterns and their role in international flights. In particular, I'd like to name those who are supposed to be my planes, e.g. ... ina taxiflyand a ferry flight. In this regard, I also want to name the Isafjörður Airport in connection with possible Greenland flights. There we are to improve communication and provide what we can do to expand our transportation. The country's 11 planned airports are defined, but two of them are out of focus, Alexander's airport at the Sheep's Hill, and the Trinity airport. A transport program does not take any position on these choices that are actually convenient for both training and training fields for teaching flights. This is an important factor, since we need to help educate qualified and good pilots to fly in a challenging situation here and around the world. Here, too, it is pointed to the lack of a future airport on the West Coast and to a reminder of a psychiatric proposal that I proposed to a number of victims that there would be an investigation at a suitable airport. By means of a new Horfnsey tunnel, it is reasonable to wonder whether it is realistic to plant a floundering airport in the area that can provide an airway for the West, both on a shorter route within the country and even across the seas and between countries. We need to open our eyes to the fact that a new century is coming up against electric aircraft, which will be far less expensive in business and will be able to make significant changes right away in this decade on shorter paths, as mentioned earlier. That's where we're still sitting, Icelanders. The sea has been the gold chest of our Icelanders for many centuries. The oceans are the lifeblood of many societies in the country. We've agreed on flight policy, but no port. Here we need to replace the dirty words and keep these matters firmly and firmly fixed. It belongs to sailors and to people who have a reason for rejection. In many respects, the proposed Mr. President gives evidence that the will is not missing, the willingness to add our interiors. But as always, it is not a trust fund, it is a wishing list that can lead to disappointments if only to a limited extent, the plans presented and scheduled are carried out. This system is not a physical laws, although it has been a long time. Of course, the main principle should be that a transport strategy should not be provided until financial support for every event has been ensured. This is possible, and this is what we're supposed to do. Finally, I'd like to thank the members of the Environment and Transport Committee for the cooperation and work of preparing a proposal for a transport plan to be on its way and we've heard of it. The Committee did not establish a position on one opinion. This does not mean that there is a deep disagreement on the main aspect of what lies ahead and what is to be seen. The committee made great efforts and wealth to achieve a vast deal of peace and solidarity on this subject, and those who kept their hands on the project did so eagerly. The approach taken was exemplary, although the less part's special appearance became two in the broad range of motion proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u108	Mr. President. I don't know what I'm gonna come to in a minute, but I want to talk about two things. There are measures due to energy exchange and climate action. There are plans and measures for energy exchange, e.g. in regard to driving and driving in the country. There is also a plan for action on climate. They are supported by many aspects of the transport program, but they are not being discussed with airplanes, cars, or ships on transport, such as roads, bridges, airports, harbors, and tunnels. I felt that these comments in themselves did not really have much to do with transportation in most areas. But okay. However, I still think this transport plan is exactly for climate operations and faster energy exchanges. They are discussed in connection with the given reason. But the other thing, I think it's a little far-reached. It's the first time today that a nine-man electric plane is flying right around here. I think it's a long time before we start assuming electrically powered aircraft in Iceland, apart from the fact that some planes are going to do something other than batterying, are going to be driven by other fuel sources. The other thing I want to discuss mostly is the PPP project. Hv. A senator says that there's something missing on grounds, and that's exactly right because the PPP bill that comes with a transport program opens the license to create them. There is no way to contribute something that is unrealistic by cooperating with transport projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for the counter-sponsored. The energy exchange and discussion of them and the environment are the modern - day alpha and Omega issues, and they become more and more important in all discussions in the future. That is why you could have prepared to see that they would be even more important in this regard, the emphasis is even higher, for the discussion is all in that way. It is in transport, whether by sea, by air, or by land, that we can achieve considerable success. In terms of energy exchange in the air and planes, it is true that we may be focusing on batteries too much. There are other options. Yet, this development is an enormously rapid process. It may be every six months that we give evidence of significant progress and technology - it may be a huge amount of technical revolution, but technological changes. Flight drivers and those who come near the airport are constantly taking this seriously and are actually flying in a test flight near us. The PPP projects are a sensitive subject, and we have an understanding of how far we should go in this. We have a bill for coverage right now, where we have a new door to financing through the woods. But what I miss is, of course, that there are some stage shots for both the people and the public to clarify it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u110	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðjón's Brjánsson for his counter-sponsore. We agree that environmental and climate issues are almost all alpha and Omega, but it is only a matter of how we deal with them in a transport program that deals with infrastructure and not equipment. I'd like to correct this with Alexander's airport and the Fleet Airport, since in our proposal for flight grouping, the airports we propose to stay inside the national network are precisely suitable for teaching and exercise flights. So they're in there, I think it's just been misreaded. I want to take one specific point, and it's simply this: To a considerable extent, a policy plan is funded, not entirely because of the 2020-2023 program we're going to see a little better. We're going to 300 billion minus at Covid. Is the United States'idea of taking more loans to finance roads or transportation? [[The president calls.]] Shall we increase our debt?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u111	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is still fighting for the counter-sponsion. Transport schedule should not be discussed on the inside. There are, of course, gaps in the infrastructure in terms of e.g. electricalization denied, and I'm not going to make a difference where it lives, but it needs to be added and enhanced by the infrastructure in order to allow electrical access, e.g. ports. The technical solutions are there, but more is needed. As for the airports in my district, I didn't object to their being on a transport plan. I agree with various factors and basically the elements of a transport program, but it shows that they are very suitable for training. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u112	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the Brjánsson Brunnson for a successful review of the opinions of the 1st Environment and Transport Committee on Transport. I want to thank you too. A senator for the cooperation of the Committee, which was excellent, as he entered, and in committee 1. There are smaller tips. But I would like to first stop at the same things that were happening. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson did, in the discussion of the energy exchange and the electricalisation of the flight, because I think that in the opinion there's a little iced over what's going to happen, e.g. ... toAir Force One. So I'd like to ask you why. One of the key elements I'd like to read from the conference is: Table 4. Reduce the environmental impact of flying and flying systems. Residence of energy exchange in the field of flying along with technological development and contributing to the development of needed infrastructures. At least that's where I find it very clear and direct that question to why. A senator would agree with that. In the course of flight, the main focus is to achieve environmentally sustainable transport targets and is said to be no less than that environmentally related to flying and air management will be at the head of the environment. Motivation for energy exchange in flight, when adequate technologies have been developed and contributes to the utilisation of domestic environmental energy sources. Airplane infrastructures powered by eco-friendly energy sources will be available at airports. The services at the U.S. airports will be fueled by environmental-friendly energy sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir tape for the answer. It's certainly killing in a transport program. It's either way. Aircraft efficiency is being promoted and the buying of more fuel - efficient machines is being paid than the extravagance of the aircraft. There is no mention that we need to acquire our own fleet in that area. There are, of course, many other things to say, but I believe that the plan should be much more clear in view of the circumstances we now live in. I point out that we have no history of new aircraft experimenting with new fuel options. There was another question I don't quite remember who was.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I read it in no way other than that we're talking about energy exchange, where electricity is at the front of the category. I'm not going to say anything about it, but I'm just going to head over to the transport contract for the capital area. This highlights the importance of light control by a smaller portion. I can agree completely with that, and, in fact, it's the same thing in the opinion of the greater part. There is now an assessment of light control in the capital area. We've been informed about this on the committee. I'd like to direct that question to why. The senator's opinion of the procedure may have to be re-assigned if the results of this assessment would warrant, in order to put light control work ahead of other projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u115	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Líneik Sólvarsdóttir's Linguist Anna Sævarsdóttir refers to the transport contract, which is an enormous interest in the capital area all over, the rural communities here. We expect it to become a law and act as soon as possible. We're calling light control in terms of a difference of 1. And we believe that the quickest results are possible. I don't think it's a question that if the results of a working group or reviews are to be arranged in a way that puts light control back on the list, that's a lot of research, and the interests are great. This leads to less waste, more combustion, and less traffic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the cooperation of the Committee and his review of points 1. I can, like a whisk. A senator, who, in the opinion of the greater part, agrees in many ways. I had three things I wanted to talk to you about. A senator. Two of them are now out, the first one was either. A senator believed that it would be more successful and faster in climates to limit the energy exchange of air traffic to electricity, instead of having a variety of means of transport, as is the policy of the greater part. The committee's opinion shows that we should have a wide range of national energy sources. I was going to ask you what, too. A member of Parliament whether the members and members of his crew in the mayor would certainly not agree with the emphasis on light control and its importance. I'll take 100% under his emphasis on it. Now that my main question has been discussed a little about the other question, how do you plan it? Since a senator has such a huge notice in all the funding proposals of the greater part, will he implement important transport projects? How's the e.g. The Senator to initiate Oxi projects, we conducted the Horn of the Earth, which can only begin at any time and be financed in a transport program only part through transportation? How's it going, man? A senator is about to initiate the Sunway and how to finance, for example. Waterwaters Road, Forest Beach, and other roads, and so forth, in relation to all the big warnings that are made on the financing roads mentioned here?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Árnason Aarson for the counter-sponsored. Whether we can choose more benefits than electricity - of course we should examine all options. You're focusing a little bit on electricity right now. Basically, we're aboard this expedition and the polls that are being done on the benefits of energy exchange on the flight. We're supposed to be there first and in the front row, not at the back of the class, or we're going to be somewhere in the back, because we're putting so much emphasis on environmental and transport. This is evident, of course, in the government's covenant. I don't feel like there's a whole sound and a picture going through it. Hv. A senator asks if we are not united in the covenant of the city. I haven't spoken very closely to my partner at Reykjavíkurburg, but I have every reason to believe that we are 100% in agreement. Of course, this must be determined by what is wise. I can't believe people like that. How are we going to do the six projects that are planned for today if it is not for PPP? There are various ways in which you can do this. Of course, we have a common fund. We can help them to cooperate even if this is not the case. A loan can be borrowed. We can deal with this together, we can share it. We do not necessarily eliminate charge in certain fields, but there is, of course, a need to be related to the change in payment or taxation in the general road system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and he sincerely hopes that the city authorities will agree with us on light control 100%. That's where we're at. You see, a senator is 100% in agreement. But as for the funding, let's continue with it, the one here has often called for an even greater amount of transportation support and said that there was something left in the discussion. Now a substantial amount of money has been added in transport, but we have not been able to finance these six projects except through the route of PPP or cooperation. That's why it was gone. And although we have gone that way, we have not yet financed such important projects as Forest Coast Road, Waters Road, and so forth. If we could make room for a shared fund and take a loan and such, if we could use that amount of space, which would be the cause. A senator put it in Axi, the Hornine River, the Waters Road, or the Forest Coast?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u119	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Of course, I want to do all these things, make them fast. I can't believe it. A senator will continue to defend the work that he knows is one third of the cost we have. Why don't we make up our own company, together, where we can collect some fees that, at least, are in common funds? What are we doing with a PPP thing like this? What are the benefits? What does that mean? It's a simple arithmetic. To be honest, I thought the Independence Party was full of financial geniuses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u120	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a review of the Environment and Transport Committee on a proposal for a five-year transport programme and a 15-year transport programme extending up to 2034. We decided to return a minority party, and in my speech, I will review their basic reasons and describe the difference between us and the majority of the parts. Mr. President. We're well aware of the agreement in a number of aspects of the committee's list of parts, but I'm going to add on two, three ways. The multitude of the peoples of the land has always been divided by air, air, and uterus; because the land is a great and long difficulty. For these reasons and for the smallness of life, progress in transportation has been an ongoing challenge to governments. For years, the road system has been allowed to descend under increasing traffic weights. New projects have not followed the need for increased number of tourists and the demand for improved transport across the country has not been answered. It is urgent to engage in major road initiatives, and it has long since been time for the development rate to be much greater than in the transport program since February 2019. The need for investment in the road system is estimated to be nearly 400 billion. and with that number will be added during the period of construction, inevitable. So we're still trying to get our tails on this important matter. Other smaller points support the emphasis and viewpoints expressed in the opinion of the greater part that there is a significant need to expand all transport activities and to endeavor to meet the urgent maintenance and new needs in the transport system. Other smaller items stress the priority of transport projects in terms of their efficiency, their equality between parts of the country, their cohesion and their safety perspectives. It will be emphasized to expand individual sectors, break isolation, and facilitate the way of inhabitants to attend service, especially health care, regardless of where they live in the country. Another smaller section welcomes the increased funds estimated to be safe for transportation, flying, turning down and improving the road and supporting the estimate of the greater portion. In particular, a lower part of the effort is supported by more than one member of the Committee to look for all ways to improve transport progress further than is being done in a transport programme. In the present economic situation, transport is just the right option as a major challenge and as a national cost. For the next three years, the aims of the majority of transport supplementary funds will be implemented for the next three years, which will be presented at financial contributions in October 2020. In view of the circumstances, the Committee intends to establish a agreement between financial policy, financial planning and transport programmes, to submit a political arrangement for changing the terms of transport, following the approval of these Parliamentary and Economic Ministers. I'm particularly glad the committee plans to hit the pulse, if I may say so, in the process of these cases. I am strongly supportive that these matters will be followed by the committee. In particular, the opinion that the greater part of the Committee is stated that, depending on the transport or financial situation, the need for a specific procedure, e.g. By means of the transport contract of the capital area. I'd like to welcome it, there's a defender we believe very important, that it would require the help of the Generals to put money in a transport contract each time and as that means. In the smaller parts, we also agree that we'll be seeing to the end that we'll be seeing to at least the extent of a Kingdom-sized air traffic output. one day a week will be possible to get back and forth on the same day of each stop, and this can mean a lot to the population, especially when traveling to get medical or professional. You can go back and forth on the same day and offer such options at least one day each week for these sites. The minority, however, makes comments on the proposed financial contributions due to the transport contract of the capital area. The arrangement is between the government and six rural communities in the capital area for planning and funding the development of transport timbers and public transportation in the capital area to 15 years of age. The 15 - year transport plan allows the State's contributions to the transport covenant to be 28 billion. Notes are not made to the part of the agreement that focuses on the very timely structure of the institutions in the capital area, on walking and cycle path, and on traffic control. However, part of the covenant deals with the making of a so - called city line, and a significant amount of money is expected to be made in order to accomplish it. With the evidence that all of this is a significant uncertainty - e.g. that there is a need for investment, blurred plans in general, the fact that no management plans are available, the huge cost of the project by binding capital for the long future, vague implementations of other traffic flows, as well as a continuing plan for use in this transport - 2 smaller things cannot support that purpose. Other smaller items make serious comments to plan for the road transport arrangements that turn to the city line. Despite the desire to pay for a wide range of means of transportation, including public transportation, 2 smaller things do not seem to be a defence to plan a city line so important that state and rural society will defend less than 50 billion dollars. Until the year 2033 to the city line. Mr. President. It has not been demonstrated that the more efficient targets for cities cannot be met than to spend 50 billion dollars. During the specified period. There is no fixed cost plan for urban development as well as financial and management programmes, and unclear who will carry the cost of their operating at the end of the procedure. It is expected that contributions, both state and rural, will be much higher than expected, with the number of uncertainty factors involved in the whole project. For example, it is unclear who will own or after a few cases earns money from the type of space produced by some of the Grand Prixs. No one knows if it will be the city of Reykjavík, or part of the community, if it will be established, which is intended to keep investments and policy affairs linked to the transport contract. Then there will be the complete uncertainty about the stately premiums of the city after it is realized and will cease to be part of its business with the long - term rural communities. The central category believes that other projects in the capital area, which have been ignored for far too long, will call for immediate improvements and guarantee enough money for them. It has the highest stockways and the Central Party thinks it's right to set a Grand Way at the top of that list in order to give an unopposed patrol between East and West. Such action would greatly increase the security of the inhabitants. There is reason to mention the same in this context as the Way of Rounding and Smokenes. A special project, in many sense, is the word that has long been waiting for and was on the part of the inhabitants of Kjalarnesi, e.g. A prerequisite for unity with Reykjavík. However, more than a part of the city's city in Reykjavík seems to have decided to turn aside plans for the Sunway with its decisions and have actually done everything to make the project more difficult and more expensive. In this case, in part 2, the less comment on the implementation of a work together project on the road, a so-called PPP route, is about some projects to be negotiated by events, in part or in all, to a private member in order to finance and perform selected tasks in the road system, if I try to explain this in the human language what PPP means. The other minority points out that in single cases and in general, there is an unexploited and completely uncertainty over the amount of roads. The minority also feels that there will be a better chance that the currently conjugal bill, 662th matter, involved in working on road projects, will be implemented as a framework for future projects. The General might later conclude that certain projects, as time goes by, were replaced by methodology. The bill specified specifically which tasks should be considered based on the so-called PPP approach. Some of the projects mentioned there are not particularly suitable for such projects. Rather, they would be a traditional and suitable task for the roadmaking process. Of course, I do not need to review this list of six projects in order to present myself as an example of Dizziness. It is a mission that is completely in fog, somewhere in the future, how it is to wind, where it should lie, how it will be done, whether it will be a bridge, a tunnel, or an bottom tunnel, or anything else that has come up on how the Sunway will be built. The line itself, or the bridge line, is still in complete uncertainty; the cost numbers are, of course, in complete fog and only guesses. Despite the decades that we have been waiting for this development to take place, this is in the long future. I read an article the other day where I remembered that this might be a 50 - year - old idea, going this way to cut north or to the top of Ak Arane, and moving traffic weight out of the areas that are there. It's just grown at this time. How far into the future can we expect a Dwreck to make it to the forelist? I heard Vilhjálmur it was. I think I'm right. He felt that there was finally a delay in the matter. But then you find out and read in magazines from time to time that the mayor's more important part is planning, assigning, and performing in the parking lot. This has happened many times. What kind of teamwork is it when one side of the party is constantly pulling against it a leader of organizational matters in the capital area that have become kind of a passenger, Mr. President? There are some contracts, some agreements, plans, whether they are 50 years old or younger, and one person is always thrown at ease. How long is the mayor's share allowed to keep the government on the stupid ears of such cases, repeated over and over again? They're blue-eyed. They still believe that everything will come true. Certainly, I hope that moving towards transport within the capital area will begin to take on what was originally assumed, such as. ... bytheDivineway. Another lower part shows frustration that over the past year, there has been no success in preparing a new tunnel plan better. Other smaller points agree with the greater importance of the hurrying of transport and rural management. It also agrees with the greater part that the total analysis of land conditions will be done in Iceland, where they will be evaluated in terms of national benefits, economic benefits, practicalness, and regional grounds. Other smaller things make comments on the implementation of future traffic arrangements that are no longer available and that it is important that the type of work be made when making road decisions. The above - mentioned co-works, PPP, and the so - called transport contract of the capital area. It is essential that the reference levels of roads be clearly stated as soon as possible. It will discuss the implementation of the discounters and will give the smaller portion a special attention to reduced automobile schemes to meet the costs when available. When implemented, a product product collection of those who have to pass many roadways should be avoided, e.g. to attend service to the capital. Other smaller things do include Comments on this and ideas of currency. It's totally unassigned, we'd like to see better how to transfer the currency, but the government hasn't shown that game yet, so we could agree. It is our requirement in the Middle East that this will not result in an increase in the size of the car owners or those driving on the roads of the country but, rather, in the case of other laws, overall spells, i.e. The costs of cars, gasoline, and oil dropped similar to those on which they are laid, regardless of what they may be, and whatever they may be thinking. Other smaller points are directed to transport and local government ministers to activate a sectoral approach on air matters and after incidents of the Association for Disease Control on Transportation for the planned development of a cut-off. In a contract made by the minister and mayor on behalf of the state and the city on the implementation of weather research in the Whale test, it is decided that the local airport will be in Watermam until just as good or better at the southwest corner will be ready for use. This deal is now seven years old. Today, preparations are being made for us to carry out further settlements in the cutoffs and to have already built many buildings in the so - called Vals area. Another smaller section considers it dangerous to continue on course while adequate studies on the impact of each of the off-ways of the left-over windflight emergency circuit and unrest at the airport are not available. We believe that adequate studies should be conducted on the effects of these settlements, these projects and the city's plans, at the airport of Reykjavík, the end of the city's airport is still in place, and under contract, it should not be passed until certain grounds are established in this contract. He's not supposed to leave unless he's as good or a better place to find. It hasn't happened, and it's not in sight. It's a long time. Another lower part considers it incorruption of change in diffusion without adequate analysis of the effect of this structure on flight security. In this connection, Istavia's agreement with the Dutch Space Administration has been identified in July. It was in the papers this morning, I think. It is necessary for governments to ensure that prior to the approval of a new network. It is also essential that monitors, such as the Grouping Room, who carry out the evidence of an aviation such as aerospace and its infrastructure, give their opinion before implementation to prevent irreversible damage. It is unacceptable that flight conditions and pilots at the airport get worse so that the space of the field will be compromised. Once again, I am speaking of an example of a state and city going separate in spite of this agreement. In spite of later agreements for the future of the airport, the mayor's main objective is to get involved in transport construction, I mean the road system and airports in the capital area, that it changes over and over again, alters the costs, even at security costs. Another lower part of the rights to ensure that there is a great need to be carried out throughout the country and that the current donations for new projects and maintenance are being done slowly. Other smaller points will be in the discussion of financial and financial policies and in the following cases on budgets for the coming fall councils suggest that a large investment campaign on the basis of the debt of financing will be authorized. The other part emphasizes that now is the time for the State to invest with increasing weight in transport workers during recesses. At the same time, we stress that the projects that are being undertaken will be economically seen and also out of the established viewpoints, to shorten distances between habitats, to increase employment areas, and to increase safety in many difficult ways in the country. In this respect, our viewpoints harmonize with the main theme of the opinion of the majority of the committee. I am stressing that such projects will not be left in the low, since schoolchildren every day must drive to school often on nationally famous trails, such as. Waterway. I emphasize that such projects will be rushed as quickly as possible. There is a great need for the construction and maintenance of our country's ports. In recent years financial contributions to Refundment have been greatly added, and this adds up the need for maintenance rejection, both to maintain water depth as well as for general maintenance. Other smaller points agree with the greater part of the Committee that a more comprehensive perspective is needed on these projects and a significant increase in funding to this category of languages. We also give special support and stress that in the next three years, money will be spent on a planned investment campaign. Before I do, I'd like to mention that one of the priorities of transportation is to increase the safety of road users. Clearly, there is much work to be done in the coming years, and the committees have directed attention to this point in their work. Let me give you a few examples here. The situation on many roads is that residents and travelers may not feel safe, since there is a high proportion of traffic over the course of the year. There are many narrow roads and roads that are poor or that are simply not there. This requires improved roads, making sure that the roads are made stronger. Then you will have to expect bicycle riders in the type of projects that are under attack. More narrow roads have to be torn in pieces, and more roads must be built on which the reefs are steeped. For the difficult task of reducing bridges, many may feel that it is a slow process. It is important that they be exterminated on highway 1 as soon as possible. More important, when it comes to increasing traffic security, there is a need to promote visible law enforcement, to keep pace with motor vehicles, and to drive behind the influence, but more money is needed. Mr. President. All the crowns placed in the above objects pay a great deal of back in fewer accidents and especially in the reduction of serious accidents. There is always reason to look for security and traffic on the roads of the country. It is noteworthy that at the end of the Commission's counsel, a single person was at the head of the committee on the primary project that transportation of all kinds would have to be improved significantly from what has been done. I've presented a loose opinion of my second, but it's signed by the person standing here and what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for handling the cover-up of my second segment as well as for a good cooperation on the Committee. It may be sanctified because we agree a lot about things, and I can agree with many statements presented in the committee opinion he covered. I feel, though, that some of it is somewhat the same as it was felt in committee party 1, to want everything for nothing, that it was ready for many things, but the ways that it would be impossible. That is why I would like to ask about the capital contract, since we agree on many important projects. How does that count? A senator that can be reached out without an agreement with the six societies in the capital area? How does he think that if nothing is left to the organizational standards, we will be able to advance the initiatives, the organization for the Djords, and so forth?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for the question. I think it's clear which way we want to go in my second part, and I think it's very simple to explain it. I think it would be cheaper to go in debt, i.e. That government funds are borrowing the projects we want to see happen in transportation, right now, when the government funds are running well, and we are going downhill. What I also criticize is that we are delaying these projects and their beginning very much, e.g. by taking this PPP route, going on the soil tunnel. It's just holding up. I don't see how these projects will start until after maybe one, even two years. Then there will be a new government, new members of the community. [[The president calls.]] I think a debted route would be much faster.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u123	A respectable president. I stress the capital contract in which we are in need. A senator is, that I think, completely agree. We want a new intersection at Brest Road and Smokeynes Way. We want to get the Road moving quickly. We hope that everything will begin with Eaglenes Road and that the light controls will begin. All of these projects have been stopped because of organizational matters in the capital area. Now we have an agreement to break this ten-year construction stop. It's not about a debt path or something. It's about a deal. If we were to draw everything about priorities that a city line can hit - and I don't understand why. A senator is so worried about the operation of a city line that we're not dealing with here, nothing. How's it going, man? A senator achieving organizational changes in the capital area, so that financial projects can be initiated, different from the agreement on the board?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u124	Mr. President. I just agree with what. That's what a senator does. Of course, these projects have to be agreed. In view of the lower portion, we agree that the root roads in the capital area will be corrected quickly, including the Dizziness Way. I don't see that the Sunway will be on the move in the near future. It needs to be planned much better and recreated because all the factors have been changed since it was drawn up. Even if it was drawn up many times, all presumptions are changed, even year after year. We agree that the founding system has to be built in the capital area, and I also agree that this, of course, has to be concluded with the rural communities in the capital area. Of course. I welcome this contract in all respects except for the city line. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gauti Göta Hjaltason for review of committee views 2 smaller parts on transport. I want to thank you. A senator for the best cooperation on the Committee, and I see it on the committee that there are many things we agree on. However, there are some things I would like to pause and ask more questions. I'd like to start the Sunway especially. In the second, the senator introduces himself as destroying the pool road and in the other word, that there is no organization to determine where the waterway should lie or where it could lie. As far as I know, there's a working group working now that's going to turn up some proposals at the end of the summer, so I'd like to ask the senator if he has any other information on this than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for these questions. If there's any possibility that there's an assessment or some kind of plan at the end of the summer, where the Sunway should be, of course, I rejoice. I just remember when you were a teenager that men were waiting for this so - called Sunway. She's not here yet. So, of course, I'll be happy with you if there's a gap between the two of us and we're going to see the end of that case and that there will be a solution to this transport, which is certainly about this vast passage west into land and north through Mosfellstown. I'm happy if there's some sort of assessment coming up and I didn't actually know it was there. The answer is that. So I just like to celebrate it with a bang. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer to that question is helpful, and it is good to have been able to inform here that there is a proposal for a long swimming track at the end of the summer. I've heard what. A senator criticizes the city line and its capital both in a review of the committee's opinion and the previous discussion in the conference hall. However, I have never heard of the path he would like to go to ensure a clear route to the present and future inhabitants of the capital area that will and will have to make use of public transportation. So I'd like to ask him which way he can support himself in that, if not a city line. And then I'd like to ask what information the senator has on that land to set a Grand Way in stocks. According to my sources, there will be a man on this deck as well as in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u128	Mr. President. There were many comments and questions. I'm gonna do my best to answer one of them. First of all, I am not at all against public transportation, so that it is said, for I said so in my speech. A land space that gets rid of putting a Grand Prix in stock? Yeah, I think it's obvious that if the Grand Prix is put in stock of some kind of land. From the same kind, I can, for example. The name Hamraburg, in Kópavogi, a bridge over the road and on the bridge, or this surface, is a construction site today. And if this is done on a major path, I imagine it would break free of land or double land on something that's built over. I have questions about what happens to it. Does it work into your partner or to Reykjavík?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u129	A respectable president. I've listened to the arguments of the Middle Class on the city line, the inequities of that project, etc. However, when we consider the cost of analysis that we have of the results we want to achieve, there is the most cheap and efficient way to achieve better traffic flows in the capital meeting. If we didn't have the city line, we'd have to pay much more to get the results we could achieve with it. And that cost, as well as the extra cost of these projects, must be reduced from the potential concern of the senator of the cost of operating at the city line, if you compare the examples that we have in the cost analysis we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u130	Mr. President. I missed if there was a question there, I didn't hear it or I missed it. But, hey. A senator was talking about city lines and fast buses. I'd love to get a quick lesson from a dog. A senator in what a city line is. He mentioned fast street cars. Is it supposed to be fast street cars? I've heard other things, but maybe it would be nice, first of all. A senator didn't have a question for me, that he informed us here in one or two minutes about what a city line is. There's very little question about what a city line is, how it's going to be done. Plans; Management Plans, implementation programmes and budgets are all very detailed. We're going on a road trip that we don't know where it ends, especially at cost. I'm not ready to accept on behalf of the taxpayers that we're going on this adventure unless we see further ahead than we do right here and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u131	A respectable president. However, there have been quite a number of staging and cost analysiss in different ways, how it is, and each cost of building just a root system, each cost of doing what has been done, how it affects traffic flow, etc. When compared with all, the best, cheapest, most efficient route of structure and city line preparation. And so I ask the question again, why would the Central Party want to take on a much more expensive project, which I guess is just groundwork instead of citylining? And wouldn't it be when everything happens at higher maintenance and management costs, which should be reduced from the cost of operating, though, that is the best way to compare these options with that of the city line? I don't know what cost analysis that would be. A senator is referring. [[The president calls.]] I guess they're none, he's simply guessing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u132	Mr. President. Yeah, I admit it. A senator, that I would like to see more capital gain in the capital area than what is supposed to put in the city line. Yeah, I want to see more on that side, I admit it. Don't you think it's just cheaper to start right away, huh? A senator, about to buy up the houses that are on the opposite side of the city, but are we going to squeeze traffic and create traffic knots here that we have not seen before, and yet we see enough of them already in the city? It's not just cheaper, huh? A senator, picking up several billion dollars to buy out the houses there instead of setting up a city line on these overcrowded roads every day, pushing even more on the road there? Isn't that just cheaper?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u133	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u134	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça spoke extensively and spoke in part. ... thata majority of the city's government was holding over their stupid ears. Then I'd like to take this opportunity less. One member of the government class is, of course, in a greater part of the city and an agreement on the transport contract of the capital area between the state and rural society of both the city and the country in the southwestern district of Reykjavík. But these rural communities are directed by the Independence Party, so it is not entirely true that more part of the city's government team is involved; this is just a normal team of members; state, city, and other rural society in the capital area. I'd like to bring some thought into my head for a moment. Senator. He does not comment on the part of the agreement, the transport contract of the capital area, which has to do with the most timely development of infrastructure pathways, footpaths, and bikes, and traffic campaigns. [[The president calls.]] However, it does appear to be the driving force. A senator has all his angles about the city line. Yet, city lines will reduce traffic and reduce pollution and increase transport and traffic flow. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I don't quite understand why all this hatred for the city line that you see in the review and the case at any given moment. A senator, or evil, forgives, the highest. President, spells. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to know why. A senator specifically takes a city line out of his own hand what he has against the city line himself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u135	The President is forced to take less than that. Councilmen are to respect the narrow time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u136	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. I am well aware of who is in the government and which classes make up more parts in Reykjavík. It doesn't change, however, in my opinion, that the other side, although of the same sort, might drag the other person on the asses' ears. [[Up front.]] So I can't see that it matters if I say that wording. I just don't like it. A senator, that this area, this community, can take over the amount of money, tens of billions, hostage to the entire country, to the state's funds, in order to implement what is as uncertain and uncertain as the city line. [[The president calls.]] I wasn't... yeah, I'm done with my time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u137	President thanks for your efforts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u138	Mr. President. We're out of business. The members of the council are anxious, and we obviously need to talk a little longer. But I'd like to get past you. A senator sees how he sees that we speed up public transport now that Iceland has accepted international commitments when it comes to expansion, action against the climate, and especially today when we are coming out of a pandemic, and our waters are further focused on health and health, health, and healthy cities, and urban communities. How can you tell? For example, if we don't want to speed up the city line but put more money on track, as he mentioned earlier, would a senator really have such structure? And, yes, we're right next door. paritaprevir Since Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has already been set up for endless exposés and city - line organization, all of this information is available. I would love to see a vision of the future. When it comes to public transportation and a more healthful means of transportation in the capital area, a senator is approached.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u139	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator once again before the questions. I have the wonderful prospect that we can expand the platforms, break them, make more miscreants, and decompose the present. Then I think the bus cars now stopped in traffic knots, for example. On a grand path, making it faster. Whether they're fast cars or anything else, I don't know, but I'm thinking that no matter how they are, they're simply better off their way than they are now, if we've done a remake of the road system that hasn't been done for years, even for decades. [[It's just...]] How long has there been a mixed - road tournament built here in the city of Reykjavík or in Reykjavík? I think it's been a while, unless I forget something. But it's been a long time. If this was to be added, I imagine that the buses, the current buses, or some future speed cars would do pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u140	Mr. President. We'll talk about 2. A X-ray protocol, a five-year plan, a plan for implementation, and a 15-year long-term schedule. I want to first thank the Commission for their excellent cooperation in the processing of this case and, like, what it's done. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiç in advance for Internal Affairs 2. My share is basically a harmony between the visions of our two senators, the one here and the other. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, we're both members of the Central Party, and what is presented in the majority wing of the Committee, which in turn distinguishes regarding certain matters. I'm going to go through it so I'll start with a short entrance, then go through the points I especially want to remind myself of and support in the committee's list of parts, then have a few words on our minor opinion, but on the other hand. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason was fine at that point before, and then he ended up on a general tour. The main objective. I don't think the whole transport board and I think senators are well aware of any doubt that there is a need to increase funding for new projects. Although there is a way to do this, there is one way or another that the project should be carried out. Payroll has been discussed on a regular basis. The aims have been made to simply raise the price on the gas cylinder. We in the Middle East have considered it wise to go to a so - called debt - fund fund, where we suggested a film in February. More than in March that 150 billion debt items would be made. In view of the current loan system as a trust fund, we feel that it is a very powerful procedure to offset the need for construction, as it were, that is, in all principle, where the most urgent action is going to take place. I'm afraid it's going too slowly as it is now. But it is important that, as well as the smaller portions and members of the Central Party, the declaration of initiatives to be presented in connection with the contribution of financial programmes on October 1. Immediately, the commission points to a forward change proposal in the fall, to an agreed financial programme, where money will be spent in order to complete the work being done. Next up a substantial improvement, including to establish from the capital area and then, for example, to take an example from my own initiative because I was close to it, there were two projects that did rather mismanageably out of the transport program recommended by the secretary of the transport department in December, where the Forest Coast Road had a wide range of budgets during the third programme period of 2020, which was the year 2030-52034, and neither by hydrocarbons, which was the main source of financial resources during the same period, 2030 to 202034. Happily, the committee's work managed to remedy a few things, and hopefully there will be an opportunity to give an even better injection in the two ways I would like to mention here at random. The reason I mention this is because of the transport program proposed in December. of the highest. A secretary of transportation is facing everyone the speed to which the current budget for investments flowed in. There were reports of ports, airports, and such transport investments, so much has been improved by the Committee's work and what has taken place since the development of the environment and transport committees. I was going to skate lightly past the city line in my speech, but to make it a pleasure. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppér in particular, I'm going to do a little bit of that because I see him smiling at me right now. That's in context of the answer to the question. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautaça back there. One member of the case, Vilhjálmur Árnason - and I thank him for his cooperation in the Committee Work - could be understood that the city line, as part of the transport contract of the capital area, would be the key to getting ahead with the founding system. I think there's a real reason why that's the situation. I'm not critical at all. A senator. But it's really like this. It is very painful if the situation is that the capital city in this case can be held hostage in the construction of the infrastructure system. I've spoken that way before in conversation with a little impressed member of the Independence Party on transportation in the capital area, sharp. paritaprevir Bryndís thing about the Haraldsdóttir, that making the road succeeds on the footways of the capital area, the miscreature of the road, the recovery of road and flow - building operations, and the high prices of the city line, I don't like a good approach to all of that. [[Up front.]] What did he say? Senator? [[Take it up to 50 billion... prioritives... but not a city line.]] There are other things. It's just a city line project of 49.7 billion. Of course, it is excellent if this fast - moving system at some point becomes unnecessary because of future developments. Then we have this red carpet, which has been called. But I just want to say that I feel very serious if the situation is really what I think it is, that funding up to 50 billion in the so-called transport contract of the capital area is a kind of ransom to be carried out on the foundation structure of the capital area, because they have been starving for a long time with a so-called major research contract since 2011, if I remember correctly, so that there is no doubt that it was not the will of Reykjavík City to allow this project to be carried out. It was an outcast, but I had to mention it in connection with what was said at the beginning of the day. Karl Gauti Hjaltason. I'd like to briefly review the committee opinion of the greater part, which is excellent in all the basics. And as noted in our committee party Karl Gauti Hjaltason, we agree with most of the factors involved and can be read through it by interested people. However, with regard to the opinion of the greater part, let me first mention that there is an overall review of the future financing of the road system. There I'd like to keep it in mind that it's in my mind, so I put it this way, that it didn't work better on the project, because that line was put before a year ago when the transport program was adopted - and in my mind there's a frame that would have to form if we were to make a good shape before making decisions that would turn to so-called PPP products, possible currency in the capital area, possible payment on the potential payment of the stockways around the capital area. So I don't think we're working a little bit in the wrong order, that it's back on the bitch, so to speak. At the same time, I'd like to come into the capital area. In particular, I am pleased that the committee agreed that a large proportion of the funds that hopefully become provision in the fall will be adopted a financial program with a built - in investment plan of 60 billion, will be involved in ensuring that the founding pathways out of the capital area, the Smokenes Way, the Southland Road, and the Westland Road, arrive at the end of their work. I think it's a good thing that it's flaunted right now. Although these funds were not in the transport program that was proposed in December There was no debate over the foundation of the committee, that there was a emphasis there. I'd like to access some text that I would especially like to draw attention to, which turns toward the bases of the country. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The Internet emphasizes that those who have not yet been bound by stretchers have a priority in implementation. This enhances traffic security, leads to greater compromise and closer association. While most of them are on a transport program, the committee emphasizes that projects will be rushed in case of improvement. It is Vesturs' Way, the Gufldal Desert, the Animal Strait, and The Doth of Huguendah, the Savile Valley Road of Airport, the Forest Coast of the East, the Road of the Shire, the Road of the Basin, and the Valley of Beer - Avengers. Then there are some other types of soil that are bound to wear out but that do not meet security requirements. These include e.g. Mountain Road, Bilddal road, and road between Sandworkis and Gardur In particular, I would like to mention here and rejoice that the Roman Sea Road, which was relatively far behind in financing during the first strategy period, is moved in about two years, receiving a total funding for the work in 2021 and 2022 and a start-up in 2020. What a joy it is to have a very urgent privilege there! Then, with President's permission, I'd like to enter a text that has a connection to the interfaces. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The material is fundamental and in fact twofold. For one thing, a string of traffic lines must be tied to a small layer of subsidence that can withstand the debridement without much cost. Second, there is a road that has gained much weight since they were laid, and there is a need for extensive structure and restoration, such as. Waterside Road,Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. I think it is important to think that the council is conscious that these projects and roads are being looked into. I think I'm going to allow myself to state that there is an absolute agreement on the environment and transport committee that we need to be in focus. I'd like to continue to discuss the factors that I take to heart in the committee party of the greater part. As indicated in our committee party. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautaçars in regard to a tunnel, a point facing a tunnel on page 11. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The Internet stresses creating an opportunity for more than one tunnel project at the same time. In order for this to be possible, geological research, community analysis, and profit analysis need to be performed as the results are useful in the priorities of transport projects. In order to accomplish this, the Committee refers to the projects referred to as potential benefits to the development of a transport process for the years 20200/52034 as well as to projects that have been specifically referred to in the discussion of the Committee. I'm going to read it, with the permission of the president: It's Skulundururururururfjörður (Isafjörður Hyungu, some say); Sigluddæt; Mullahláttt, Imurfjörður; Lonhön (from Lón to Eeltur Fjört Fjord); Chefjörður Káðððður; The Hafjörnön. It is important that this time be used to distinguish these projects from funding, cost, community analysis, employment areas, and so forth. I hope we see such a well- formed tunnel plan coming out of this job. I'm going to keep a discussion on PPP cooperation projects, so I'm going to follow up on the skeptics. However, it is emphasized that winter services will be organized in relation to the sector and the needs of employment in each area, which I think is important. We see the transformation of jobs to form south of the West, which simply requires that winter service be in a very different way. In this context, there is a special access to a so-called escort drive that has proved to be well-endowed abroad and the simple companies and the Road or Roadmaker to organize winter services as best chosen. Then comes the chapter entitled "Quicking Action. " We are back in the process of performing Mount Þversar through the Fox Lands, and at Mount Moriscos by the Lax River, it is about two years from now. In particular, I rejoice that during the 2024's, I have been able to deliver the duplicating assignment in the year 2022. They're playing into the possible union of four rural teams in the area. In particular, the committee reminds us that if there is room within a 15 - year schedule, there is work to do in many areas. This is a project that I think would work much faster if it was possible to go to form in a large, debt-made construction package. From my district, I would like to mention the following projects, with the permission of a president: There is a Kaldadal road from the Þingalva Road of Forest Road, Uxabourg Road, from Sgt. Kaldadal Road. It is the Snæfells Road of Forest Coast, the Deep Road, the Biltdal Road, the Inland Road, the Coastal Road, and the Waters Road. All these roads have a lot of work to do. As for the flight policy, within the country and outside, we watch that there is a lot of uncertainty in the flying environment around these months. As for the infrastructure, however, the committee's opinion reminds us of the urgent need to improve the flying system in order to ensure maximum international security. There's a special focus on the so-called EGNOOS system and I want to celebrate it in particular. I think there's gonna be a lot of progress when we're able to introduce the system with those partners that are necessary in that regard. Especially on the U.S. airport. Apart from the international airport, there are especially little airfields within the country, security and physical airports, educational and exercise airports and special helicopters. These are factors that need attention. We'll see, for example. The importance of the airport on the final solution, although it is not a planned flight. Not long ago, a near accident reminded us of the importance of having secure landing sites. The same is true in Furholtur, who has played a vital role in times of trial, and so on. I'd like to mention here regarding airports that is specifically mentioned in the leading panel of objects on financing, that there will be looked forward to taking up a modest backup price. I just want to mention here that at the moment we are definitely not in the position that it makes sense. I would like to point out that when the Covid situation broke down, the decision was immediately made to cancel all the services of Istavia at the Keflavour Airport. But they have not been eliminated from the national system. The country around us was not happy enough. It continues to be necessary to prepare and implement a support system here called the Scottish way, but can, of course, call other names, i.e. national support systems. I'd especially like to mention in terms of public transportation outside the capital area, by permission of a president, here's this: Although road construction took over a large part of the public transport system, i.e. Public transport has continued to be responsible for operating within communities. This is a point to take from the recent discussion that there is no budget for the business of the so - called city line when its activities begin. But at the same time, I think I heard why. The mayor flaunts because the government fund has to come to this operation in a more powerful way than has ever been. V.E.G. President. I want to make it clear that I'm concerned that the city line has been used as a means of forcedness so that we can plan the future for the structure of the infrastructure system. I think it's very serious if fellow rurals are allowed to take the road type as a hostage in such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u141	Mr. President. I was going to discuss another matter, but because of an outcast. paritaprevir I Bergþór Ólafsson that I feel that I have some kind of disregard for the 230,000 citizens of Iceland to belittle the will of the six rural governments in which these 230,000 people live and who have agreed with the government on how they want to see the situation in their rural areas and in public transport, calling it a ransom because these are not ideals. Senator. There is some special form of indifference where all of this can be embellished into opposition from sharp people. A senator with perhaps just one politician, i.e. The mayor of Reykjavík. It is extraordinary to not be able to get your head out of the belly of opposition to the city's mayor's section of Reykjavík and to see that this is the 230,000 citizens of the country. I wanted someone else to. Senators going out on this, but I couldn't put up with it because I always find it as strange. I was going to discuss everything else, Mr. President. My wonder led me to these paths, not for the first time; and I must come to the other in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u142	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for his counter-sponsored response. I'd like to pray not to have put some kind of Reykjavíkurmet into indifference. That's not the point at all. However, it is my opinion that I made before and especially with the reference to words now. The author of the greater part of William the Year's Árnason, Vilhjálmur, suggests that no one is considered to be financing the city's 50 billion - billion - key key to getting ahead with the foundationways. There is no doubt in my mind that these 230,200,000 inhabitants of Reykjavíkurburg and neighboring society would be allowed to vote for that vote, and most of them would be highly supportive. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé makes a lot of thinking about what. Mayor, Dagur Eggertsson Eggertson. I don't do much of it. Of course, it will not be avoided when the attacks of the mayor and the mayor of the whole area on certain transport projects, such as the Waterstorm airport, are as persistent as the situation in opposition to launching infrastructure. Consider, for example, the length of the journey in connection with the Sunway. This is not personal opposition to Dagur Eggertsson Emgerson. Reykjavíkurburg union only chooses its point guesses, and after a recent spare, he is, of course, still mayor. Most days I experience it so that the mayor of Reykjavík is his own worst enemy. I don't have to come there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u143	President. It's all right. A senator discuss other projects, e.g. Split paths, and they also want people to whom they think they can speak. Then I'd like to ask. A senator wants the people of the South. The representatives of a number of rural communities came to see each other. Environmental and Transport Committees strongly encouraged that another subject, hopefully on the program here, would be agreed on by PPP, end by explaining to us that if this were done, it could be started immediately in the Southern District. I see that in a committee party or something. A senator is referred to as going, not that way, but that of others, i.e. Accepting frame law laws around it, which obviously means that the matter would not be accepted now, but it would have to come in the next fall. What does it want? A senator will tell the members of the local community that are waiting for the ban? [[The president calls.]] Does he also have a direct link in their minds, such as the people in the capital area? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u144	Mr. President. There's gonna be a second. paritaprevir Óttarsson Francis Kolbeinn Proppér possible surprise, but should not, that we members of the Central Party have a particularly good connection into the national mind in transport matters. This is made clear in section 2 of the opinion of the 2nd lower objects that we need. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason signed that we are not at all opposed to the tasks set out there under a so-called PPP rule that is also available for the council today. But we feel that the way is the highest. A secretary of transportation has decided that it is unwise to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u145	It just needs to wait.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u146	No, there's nothing to wait for. We'd pay for the case to come in here. I don't see any other reason, but it's possible to do a very quick job to make progress on the basis of the debt of financing. Not unless what. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Proppé might be opposed to what surprised me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u147	A respectable president. Thank you. The speaker's speech has to be said that the talks are only better if less talk about the city line. But, hey. Still, a member of the council paid me the favor of coming to her for a moment in his speech. I must admit that my southwest district heart is slightly wounded in a debate. A senator and, indeed, more members of the Central Party when it comes to talking about transport improvements in the capital area and the city line. You see, in the Southwestern district, which consists of the rural communities Hafnarfjörður, Kópavogi, Garidville, Setjanesi, Mosfellstown - and, in fact, Kósin, is not directly involved in the construction of transport workers in the capital area - the agreement is adopted in all rural communities. There are mayors, all of whom belong to my company. There has not been much debate over these issues in the rural community, but they have been very much discussed in the field of the local government. So I feel a little embarrassed by their elected representatives when this important project is always discussed as some kind of mayor's imagination or more of the mayor's part. It's like everyone else is somehow drawn on donkey ears. I think it's very important. A senator, because he is now president of the Coalition. The Council's Environment and Transport Committee, learn of the regional structure of the capital area, what it stands for, who came to it, and that there was the main idea of how we're going to build up transportation for the future in the area. The city line is one of the important solutions in this regard. I just want to be encouraging. To study this, a senator takes into account the people who live in these rural communities and elected representatives in them when it comes to the town line discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u148	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's the spirit of Haraldsdóttir's daughter. The citizens of these neighboring communities in the capital area are also taxpayers, so I would like to allow myself to pick up the check for them from time to time if I feel that public funds are unwary. Hv. paritaprevir Ennis Haraldsdóttir discovered that the matter was largely supported by independents in all rural areas around the capital area. This seems to be a very modest way of supporting those in the city of Independence in Reykjavík. But there may not be a point I'm going to go into very much here. Hv. A senator claims that there was a lot of discussion about the subject and little opposition. I know why. A senator is not obliged to answer my question or the speculations I present, but he thinks so. A senator to form news during the last few days would suggest that council members, elected agents in Seltiannes, are very happy with the cooperation with Reykjavíkurbourn? Just to remember, I mention a bus stop in the middle of Geirs Street and news of six hikers on the street along the ocean, which is now completely stolen from me at the moment but leads out on the Seltananes. There will be no doubt to ensure that the light control of these six lights will become so that no driver will pass through it differently than stopping at least on four lights if history teaches you something about light control in the capital area. And just because I didn't come into it in my speech because of lack of time, I'm a special amateur to be the part of the so-called transport contract of the capital area, which is about to update the light management of the system as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u149	A respectable president. I think that's what it's all about. A senator came in and is understandably a great headache for the local councilman on Seltananes, adding further to the importance of the development of rural areas in the capital area. That is exactly what the capital convention is all about. That is a complete approach to transportation in the region. That's what I think is so important. I can totally agree with what. Senator on the importance of light control. I can also agree on the importance of the changes taken with this agreement, but the point is that it alone does not solve the transport problems of those in the area who create a longer future. It takes a more comprehensive solution, and the city line is part of that solution, so I'm protruding. To learn more about the agreement and to listen to the elected representatives in the area. This journey has been long, and it has certainly been a opposition to the ideas. I can honestly admit that when I first entered the assignment at the time, it wasn't the first solution I could think of. But I'm saying, what? A senator, that all of us have learned the best and most practical way to do research. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u150	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The war later with Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. Again a question from me, which, of course, is not fair to be putting forward, but considers the affidavit. A senator - yes, I'm sorry. A senator has answered twice. [[I can't answer that.]] I'm pulling it back. I think that if I were one of the parties to the deal framed into the transport contract of the capital area -- let's say that I was the mayor of Reykjavík, just for the sake of thinking, I don't expect it to be an option -- I would certainly not begin to help the partners with all the available means, as it seems to be a special goal for the people of Sethiannes. Previously, the inhabitants have complained about a lack of communication that turns toward a decline of maximum speed, that is the bus stop in the middle of Geirs Street, and that is the six orbital lights today, etc. [[The president calls.]] It's not one thing, it's all in this partnership.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u151	Mr. President. At the middle party's presentation of her minority at a time earlier tonight, there was a statement of spells on the public. It's scary to hear that word. This was a reference to roads. Now we can say that there are two kinds of roads: it's the base tax, which is now a fuel and oil tax, and it's working to figure out how it's going to be collected, perhaps as a mile tax or something. Then there are special expenditures, which include cooperation projects or tunnels or constructions in the capital area. They made it look very vague. I'd like to highlight the benefit of this. It is the speed of the project, the decrease in distance, the increase in security and time savings. These may be a few hundred dollars, 500 bucks, let's say, at some point, which is at the price of a five - mile [5 km] average car. This calls a curse, and it speaks into a particular group of people who feel that the roads and roads of the land are almost being affected. We came to our home, and that included our company. Ladies and gentlemen of the unit at the state level mentioned, e.g. that in the joint work on the new bridge over Elysian, we might be looking at two hundred to three hundred. Pays for all the things I just listed. I ask: What is the negative spell that the Central Party says is in? This statement, in my opinion, causes dust to the eyes of people rather than to be illuminating and explaining what reality is behind expenses. I'd love to hear it. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's bringing some answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-15-117.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for the counter-sponsored. First, curses are inherently negative. It is a tax system in which the self-finance of an individual or company capital is taken into account any use necessary, but it is necessary to run the system we have established. In the Middle Ages, we have stressed that we have not really refused dues. That's not what we think. Because I have a little time, I'll allow myself to read what is directly presented in our resolution, with the permission of a president: ▪ One of my own rights is that there is a great need to be done throughout the country and that with present donations for new projects and maintenance the work is done slowly. Other smaller points will be in the discussion of financial and financial policies and in the following cases on budgets for the coming fall councils suggest that they will be authorized to begin in a massive transport investment campaign on the basis of the debt of financing. There are ways to finance. One of them could be quite modest taxes where that is appropriate. At the same time, we have held that there must not be a clean addition to other traffic currency, which is very large today. I don't think there's any doubt that the cost of driving in Iceland, both as a result of operating a vehicle, and then the oil bills, the fuel costs, and the other fees laid on automobile owners, is great. Without my research on this subject, I allow myself to say that it's not for many places where the cost for a person who drives on his own is much higher than in Iceland when it's all thought.
