ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-16-90.u1	Borist has received a letter from the following counsellors asking for every request to provide written answers to queries; from financial and economic secretary because of the requested application. 859, for the New Land Hospital, hf., from Bergþór Ólason; from the Environment and Resource Minister for the challenge of the puzzle. 1165 on contracts by government law, from Leví Gunnarsson; from foreign and development secretary for the inquiry of the panel. 869, on trial and non-conviction executions, from Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-16-90.u2	President. I'd like to ask a seated president first to call for the arrival of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, president of the Generals. Nice. You see, he said he would be there. The national protection laws clearly state that it is a legal obligation for every individual, by permission of a president, to make every effort not to infect himself or others, to the extent possible. It has come to pass in the U.S. Congress that there may be only 20 members on the upper floor of the house. - One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 22, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 - and it's just the ones I see. This is because we need to come here and point out to the chairman that he does not act in harmony with what has been announced in the community, to respect a meeting ban. The potato was at the highest. A president all yesterday and e-mailed, and he knows that if he's about to make a case on a program that's a disagreement, we'll meet here and respect democracy. Still, he decided to make it stressful, hold the conference, and make the program like this. He's got the agenda. It is difficult to offer this to all staff who are at greater risk of infection. It is difficult to invite the council to do this. It's hard to offer the democracy. A series of issues of controversy and respect for the treatment of disease should be taken away by the president. [[The president calls.]]
