ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u1	Borist has a letter from the 3rd. That's the north side. " Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, " said David, "that he will be absent at the next time in public affairs. A letter has also been received by the chairman of the Independence Party to the 6th. That's the north side. "Nalli Traitt Friðbertsson, be absent at the next time in public affairs. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly, who served as guardians for the 1st of the Central Party list of the districts, the Codgrims Sigmundsson, and the 1st Apostle of Independence in the District, the Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttur. They have previously taken their seats at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u2	There have been letters received from the following advisers where the request is made in order to give written answers to queries: I'm a financial and economic secretary for the inquiries of the deck. 630, commitments made to the State's Penitentiary on the pension of Iceland's President, Minister, Generalist and Supreme Court Court, from Ólafur Ísleifsson. From Minister of Foreign Affairs for a petition on the deck. 572, on staff matters of the Ministry, from Birgir the son of Þórarinsson, to the threshing floor. 584, search for submarines, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, to padding. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Issu, and on roof. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic state to properly introduced EU types, to have a priority in Icelandic rights from Ólafur Ísleifsson. Finally, there is a letter from the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister due to a petition on the deck. 904, on the activities of a Merit Research Institute, from Bjarni Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Department of Social Affairs and Juvenile Affairs, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environment and Resource Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u4	Mr. President. Today, we face the loss of 1,850 people in a very important work that will affect people's everyday lives. It is headed for extensive strike operations up to 20,000 government workers in the BSRB. In the United States, we have repeatedly pointed out that large groups for which the government is responsible, the elderly, the desperate, the students, and, of course, the large groups of women are yet to be met. Everyone in this room knows that people do not pull or at best find it difficult to bring back their lives on the lowest wage paid in Iceland. In addition, the worthability of individual classes is inconsistency to their importance. Caring for our children, considering that the elderly, the disabled, and the sick receive far less than the righteous condition of most people. While the values of society have changed since women cared for no money, we must take the next steps and reduce the systematic pay of the sexes, not just within classes, but also against classes. So I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister how her government will shoulder its share of responsibility for the present situation. Does the government plan further tax reforms in favour of equations? Will we see an injection in child support and growth? Will we see drastic measures on housing that will ensure a secure home for the affordable price? And finally: Will she put herself in line to start a new approach, where there will be special attention to activities that today are highly underestimated and mostly full - time?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First, I want to say that it is clear that the strike action now taking place in Reykjavík City will affect the lives of many, and I hope, of course, that the city will reach a deal with Ephla in the fight. However, I have spoken very clearly in that our guide in our government agreements with government employees is the biographers agreements. Why are they as good as I've been speaking to you? Yes, the highest priority was to increase the pay of the lowest paid classes, and along with these treaties, the government presented 80 billion dollars. in various activities related to it. A senator asks about; in the tax system changes that are best favoured by income groups, at higher reductions due to child repairs, and in large numbers of contributions into the social solutions of housing, except for the prime products that the Minister of Social Affairs has announced at this council, and will include changes in the housing market for the most needy. So we are still working on the induction of the action that we promised to take in relation to the biographer agreements, and we have also been guided by the negotiations currently conducted by government officials. But I'd like to say why. A senator especially refers to women's classes that shift work has been taken into consideration, as it has been reported in the media. I think there's a huge deal for big women in the medical sector and also for other shift groups if we can achieve a system change in how we measure shift work. I can't tell you the final conclusion, but allow me to say that I am modestly optimistic that we can achieve a successful landing that is going to be important to these large classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u6	Mr. President. Of course, the biographies are good as far as they can go, but they do not meet the expectations of living here and living reasonably safe and well. V.E.G. A minister is a little short on answering further about the actions I asked her about. There's now a financial plan to be submitted after one month, and I must ask again: Are we going to see an equal tax operation? Are we going to see further child development and growth improvements? Today the child's benefits are poor, not equations, and growth improvements are almost history. I must ask you what measures you intend to take. Prime Minister using himself?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u7	Mr. President. We agreed here just before the year before the tax system changes, resulting in an increased equation and an eco-efficiency. A senator agrees, I think, the changes are good, they are progressive, they create an even greater equation, and they benefit the least from the low income. In a financial programme, an increased injection of the social housing system is expected to be via the general packaging. That is a decision made by this government, and it is because we want people to be relieved when it comes to housing costs. Child damages have been raised two years in a row because we want to meet children, because we also see the data we have for some reason, especially younger generations. So I think we're actually in the process of creating these changes at 80 billion dollars. which we proclaimed in connection with the biographies agreements. Then we're looking at other measures, as I mentioned here, in particular shift work arrangements in relation to collective agreements with public employees, which I also hope can provide more equations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u8	A respectable president. Nine months ago, a judgment sentence in the National Court fell, in which the State was ordered to pay the older citizens a judgment order of more than five billion dollars. Plus interest and tow. Now it is only one matter that has been paid for a weight - growing event. No one else has, not anyone. We're lucky we have lab journalists and tomorrow night out. 20 will be shown a trigger factor where an effort must be made to determine how the subject is merely a subject that has been paid for a tow despite the progress of the government itself by example that, in the case of test cases, it has been sought to discriminate at least not to those who have rights according to that judgment. So I'd like to ask the highest. Social and child - care minister: Who is involved in making the decision that only a person's case receives a income interest? Has the highest. A minister or a ministerial servant might consider applying himself in the matter? Can it be assumed that, according to court recommendations, all are being paid to gain a weight interest, and this mistake will be corrected, or will it really be so that they too need to attend this matter in a special way to a court of law because the lawgiver is inclined to follow his own rule?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u9	A respectable president. I discussed this inquiry why. Not so long ago, a senator told me that all I knew was that a law and insurance agency was working on the law that applied to these matters. As a matter of course, insurance agencies paid off. A senator witnesses here. So it was that the person to whom the judgment paid paid a tow fruit. Others were paid in accordance with social security laws. That decision was then appealed to the National Institute of Human Services or charged with a decision-making committee that then referred the case to the Ministry of Social Affairs for Decisions. This decision is now at the Department of Social Affairs to determine this. I don't think it's natural for the Minister to comment while it's in there, and it's probably going to come to the Ministry because it's the way the lawgiver works. It's a law, it's a law that enforces the law, and in this case it was appealed to the judges' committee, which then refers the case to the Ministry. It's in progress and management at the Ministry, and I hope it's going well and fast.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Is it not, though, a little special that there needs to be some sort of advice and some sort of lawsuit over a fallen court of law? Is it so that 2 C.E. The constitution should be re-routed and should be taken legal authority, premeditated, and trampled into one bed? Actually, it is perfectly clear, more dignified president, for most of those who consider this case that it was a judgment hit. There is no doubt about it. He is not paid, and in reality he answers to the highest. Minister not the question, I am mainly asked how he intends to use the judicious word of judgment. I also find it sad to see that we need research journalism to try to dive into what the Supreme Court did not even want to address because he was so in agreement with what had been presented in the National Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u11	A respectable president. As I traced last year's answer, it was the result of the Agency's law to do it this way. The hearing was then charged with a ruling committee that referred the case to the Ministry, so the case is involved. It enters the Ministry's desk in a way that is appealed, and I think it's only right to allow the case to take its course there. The Ministry will be expected to decide on the case. I don't think it's true that a minister is making a lot of comments while it's in progress, but it's time to let the Ministry go over the case and make his decision. We can then take up a political discussion about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u12	Mr. President. Indeed, there are flashes of light in many parts of the economy. As a result, a very important firm in the South of Hafnarfjörður has felt the need to compound its production by 15%. This is a very important workplace and a very important business. Now there has been a discussion for interviews at the highest level. A industrial minister who's willing to ask the highest possible question. Prime Minister on the government policy on energy - efficient industry and sea cables. Mr. President, we've learned that electricity production here has been used for production, and we have a industry that has contributed a great deal to the Icelandic population. These are very important places of work for well - educated people who, as far as they can see, are paid that are very much better, considering what happens and going into a local labour market. But for the sake of the discussion, due to the words of the highest degree. Industrial Minister, I must ask: Has become or is in the process of changing course to the highest. Governments when it comes to high-energy industry and sea cables? I remind you, in the energy package speech speech speech speech speech speech speech has been taken over by the past year. Governments and government officials were saying that a cable was over its head and that it did not have to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. First, I'd like to say, it's clear that we're facing a coolation in the economy. This is not the only company that is in the air. We can remember that in April last year a large airline went under. Since this is likely to be another year's failure, there are a number of sparks and reasons for discussing them at a council to meet. I've been speaking about the need for us to take special note of the object of the government, i.e. to increase the public investment that is still close to a historic average, although this government gave a handsomely and an increase of 45%. Let us also remember that there is a discussion between this company and the national activation that sells energy to them. There has been no decision to close this company, and let's see what deals are made on natural grounds. Hv. A member of the Parliament specifically asks about the shape of a sea cable set up on a program in the 2013 -2016 government, then a survey of the project. V.E.G. As far as I could learn, a professional minister said only that she thought it was normal or that she made no comment that there would be an investigation to the future. There is no indication of any change in policy. Minister himself so that no decision would be made regarding sea cable repair except with the approval of the Generals. I thought that was a very good change. The minister suggested. In that interview, however, she said that she made no comment that this was being investigated for the future. I've said myself that I don't like the idea, but I'm also the kind of person that I never object to looking at things in the skin of my flesh, and that may be done in the future, and I understood the ultimate. Minister like that. [[The president calls.]] There has been no decision on any new course of action, and all the things that were said here last year when we actually took up the box on how to make such a decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u14	Mr. President. I want to thank you, of course. Minister for the answer, but must let me say that the answer was not very clear in all aspects. This question was asked about the government's position on the big business on the one hand and the sea cables on the other. Of course, it is very useful in a very short question period to go over the fall of WOW and all kinds of problems involved here, but this was a limited request for government policy. Prime Minister for the recommendation. Secretary of the trade. Of course, we know that it was agreed on in this mine all the things we went through during the past year that the transpiration of a cable depends on the decision of the General Assembly. We're in a hurry. But I was asking about government policy. Prime Minister who serves at the highest. A professional minister who seems to guess interested, to say the least, about the fix of a cable. What, then, will happen to the work of well - educated people and the high - paying jobs we have here in energy - efficient industry? [[The president calls.]] Of course it's on the top. A government to answer for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u15	Mr. President. Hv. A senator made a talk of a word that was the highest. Secretary of the trade. I answered why. A senator of them and showed him that what she said on this television show, as far as I know, cannot be interpreted as no change in policy on the part of the government. That government has not made the decision to explore the potential for sea cables, though the highest level has been different from the 20133/42016 government. In this regard, a industrial minister said that it did not eliminate such things for the future. That was the question. Hv. A senator asked for a minister's word. I went over what she had said. Then I made it clear: The government now seated has not made any decision to do such a survey, and what is more, the government that is about to decide to make a change that if there is ever one of these tests in the future, it would be Generalis to agree to such a decision so that we expanded the box. That's the direction we took, and it's what we stand for. There has been no change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u16	A respectable president. Again, for God's information, we read news of a person who is supposed to move abroad and protest to that eviction for understandable reasons where a person has dared get to know some Icelanders who have then dared to love the person. I'm talking about Maní, a 17 - year - old boy from Iran who was standing to leave the country until he went into the Children's Youth Department of the Land Hospital. This is not the first time that we see a situation like this, and this is not the first time the Dublin Protocol is used as a reason to send an individual out of the country for no reason. Send this young boy to Portugal. For what reason? Because. Because there is a Regulation called the Order of Dublin and because it has the authority to send people back. This is not because his interests are best served there. It's not because it's some kind of burden in Icelandic society. It's not because there's too much of 17-year-old boys coming in from Iran. No, it is because the Icelandic government has taken the position, consciously or unconscious, to let in and use all the heavy materials that are available to them. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why? Why is it necessary to apply the rule of Dublin to matters we should at least be able to consider? Now I want to keep it in place for those who are listening to the fact that the Order of Dublin does not mean that people are rejected but that they are not even examined. What, then, do we really have to stop the case of a 17 - year - old boy from Iran who comes here? Why can't it even be considered? When these issues arise, there is always a slight change that may have affected the subject of each discussion, but such issues have come up and been repeated and have been protested for years. A respectable president. Is it not time for the Icelandic government to take some form of course in the affairs of foreigners, including them? to allow people who come out here for these reasons and who are in these situations rather than constantly using all the legal resources possible to keep away people who are completely innocent, should be at home here as far as anywhere else? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u17	A respectable president. I've got to start by saying something about the Dublins business, especially because of what it's about. A senator misjudges what they are doing on a Icelandic legal project. Thus, in each individual case an independent investigation will take into account whether the Member State can fulfill its commitments, how the applicant's rights are, and if there are any special reasons to take the case for the treatment of the material. Individuals are not automatically sent on the basis of the Order of Dublin for no reason. That's the good thing about our system in Iceland. Things always get individual assessments. There are three reasons for taking a case for the physical treatments otherwise used in Dublin: There are special links to the country, if there are any special reasons. position or that the person is having difficulty in the receiving State being directed to, and if more than 12 months have passed since applying for the person. These are specific reasons where the treatment can be given so that it is incorrect. A senator he claims here that we send individuals automatically on the basis of the Cathedral Protocol back. There are two countries today that we do not send back because of their situation there, and there are Greece and Hungary. Of course, we need to examine our whole system, and I've said many times that we need to examine the status of children and people in a more delicate position. However, this was also done when a transnational Parliamentary committee discussed the laws of foreigners and specifically considered what was best for a child, specifically set the law to weigh on the question of whether a child's application should be given material treatment to a child's best, examined an international human rights covenant, and, for the taking of new laws, were specifically compared with the child's covenant and its provisions to see what could be done better. But these are laws about people, and we must always see what we can do better. [[The president calls.]] We don't have one. We don't have one. A senator says, to respond to extraordinary matters, must be equal and transparent to be kept in this category as well as in others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u18	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister said that people were not sent out automatically but then went on to a rather detailed description of the details of the systematic factors that determine whether or not people are sent on the basis of the Cysician rule, if they do not come from these certain two countries, and if they do not fulfill these obligations, they are sent ashore on the basis of the Order of Dublin. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister sees it only as normal that we get accustomed to the fact that for years the media is a press coverage of unique matters that people must agree to be preposterous if they are viewed in a material way. I've got the highest attention. Minister I didn't say Manís was waiting for some disaster in Portugal. I don't expect to do anything for myself that I haven't considered his case in particular outside the media. I wondered why not to handle his affairs here, just look at them. Why do we need the props so that people will be automatically rejected on the basis of the Cypress, except for some particular reason that people might be sent to Hungary, or if there is a danger of torture or murder there? [[The president calls.]] Why can we not just take these matters into account because we want to do so? [[The president calls.]] Because when a 17 - year - old boy from Iran needs a asylum and wants asylum here, so do we. [[The president calls.]] What's so hard about it? [[The president calls.]] Tells you the highest. A minister of Jehovah's Witnesses is normal enough to tell us that we are always taking care of reports in the media about these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u19	The president asks why. Senators looking at deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u20	A respectable president. No, I don't think it's normal, but we're obviously trying to live our system so that we're happy with it, that we're setting priorities for those who really need help and respond to people quickly and safely, and take specific matters for each one. This was the reason for establishing a special case committee, an independent NTSB, so that a complete review of the decision of the alien resident in general can be made to evaluate all aspects of the matter so that a minister would not get this decision or individual cases. Also, if you do not agree with the decision of the panel, you can request a repeat on the basis of a new position or it is considered to be a case of misinformation. There is a system that we must trust, and that we can always improve, and that we should examine. I have already assigned the Senate Committee to review the system's position regarding children and people in a more delicate position, and that is what we are doing. The rules should be clear and stable and should be transparent. We are to set priorities in behalf of those who need protection, and we have never given more protection than we did last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u21	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister only on grounds of the government's approach to the stability of the so - called covenant. Now it is clear that there are storm clouds in the economy. In a general labour market, there have been some 6,000◯8,000 jobs lost over the past year, and we hear negative reports, unfortunately, all too many; from tourism; from seaside with smiles for furturbing another year; and at last from Hafnarfjörður, with a basic review of the activities of the Stramsu, the construction industry is significantly subtracted and so on. It is clear that in many ways this may weigh us a lot of years, and it is quite clear that the raises in the lifetime contracts are considerable, and you hear that many companies are anxious for the upcoming elevations and even feel the need to take on more practical measures. So it is interesting to observe the struggle that is in the official labour market right now where the pay policy at the biographies appears to have been systematically rejected. It may be even more interesting to say that it is rejected by unions who were living at their time at the lifetime contracts. In the government declaration from the time of the Life Treaty Treaty, the President's permission stated: It is the government's actions that the government and the workforce work together to improve the interaction of economic and collective agreements and new employment practices at the labour market. Sadly, though, the more conflicting issues we have today remind us of are the old ones than the new ones there were. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Does it picture that if the pay policy there is to be broken by the same unions that it actually stood and revealed to the general labour market as now seems to be going to?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As revealed in earlier fact, my answer to the question of why. Einarsson The state is now a huge contractist in the honorary talks that are being held by public employees. The biographies have been our guide, but it is evident that the interests of different trade unions vary, of course. We are a country with a high balance of income and one of Europe's largest incomes. We also have a very high salary in general, and there is, of course, a specific identity in the Icelandic labour market, which makes it possible for a debate to form a view of whether secular education should be met against certain views of different unions. What people were combined in these biographies was that they wanted to prioritize a raise in the lowest paid groups and the government's actions in the same direction. The action I have taken many times was to meet income groups, whether by tax reform, by support of the housing system, by child support, or by anything. I've been talking about the biographies because I think they've been an important step and an important step in achieving stability in a workforce, which is, of course, difficult to deal with in the modern economy. At the same time, I think it is absolutely vital that we get the workforce's affairs to the level that I thought we reached a very important step in using the biographies, not only with what was then announced in action and the accurate composition of the contracts, but with everything that was left over. Then I'm referring to a new national economy. Then I'm referring to the pay-employment committee, which is now being initiated, all that is involved in the construction of the labour market. I hope so. A senator who is very familiar with this, of course, agrees with me that we need to consider this setting so that we are not close to zero every time negotiations start.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister, who realizes that the situation is delicate and difficult to give clear answers. But it is very strange to watch a situation that will make one more trip to the success of a year's collective agreements with clear grounds for an increase in economic stability, and it is quite clear in the economic situation today that the remuneration above the existing collective agreements would lead to even greater unemployment and risked the fragile stability that is even difficult to give a longer reason for government growth. At any rate, it is clear that we would fall into a traditional dolphin race if the basis for the lifetime documenting of the contract is broken in the public dress business. That's why it shoots very hard, and that's why my question to the highest. Prime Minister: How can it be concluded that union unions with a collective contract a year ago, with stability on a firm basis, with clear governmental requirements for a very extensive approach to those agreements, can attempt to break the agreement's objective without affecting the government's access to the same agreement? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Therefore, once again, do I ask: Is there a basis for government access that the biographer contracts could break because of the struggle that exists in the public labour market? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u24	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u25	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks: " Is the foundation smiling? No, the government will take the action we proclaimed in signing biographies. I hope, of course, that there is a solution to today's struggle, and it is also working hard to find land in contracts with government officials, but nothing has happened that changed the government's handling of the actions we proclaimed in connection with the signing of biographies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u26	A respectable president. In this country, prisons are divided up into open and shut down prisons. The open prisons are not restricted by restricted outdoors, and the rooms are not locked at night. The workers can have guests in their rooms, as well as cameras being less, and the access of residents to their networks and phones is more than confined to closed prisons, so it's totally more human. In this country, there is only one prison that is defined as open, and it is at the city of Sweden. It has an average of more than 20 inmates. It is not merely because it is defined as an open prison but because it dwells on its unique natural beauty and residents participate in the work there, like sheep farms run there. Homemates are involved in the cycle of sheep, hay, and laziness, so they are linked to the local nature. But to find out what's going on, there's a small house in the city of Yugoslavia that's come to its own age. The situation of both employees and residents is extremely poor. There is no defined treatment position, and psychologists often have to sit on the beds of inmates in their quarters to interview residents and there is no room for movement difficulties. Women share shower status with male inmates, and there is no room for gender. No one is concealed in the fact that an open prison is an essential option for prisoners when it comes to considering the recovery process of those who receive a prison sentence for wrongdoing. The need for analysis has been made for the prison, and the construction plans have been drawn that would improve the needed facilities, containing facilities for women and motor difficulties. I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice: Are there any plans to increase the number of open prison reports for women and are there plans to improve the residence of the inmates and the workers of the Celebourg?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u27	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It is very important that we discuss the prison matters more often. However, out of five prisons throughout the country, two are open. Sow is also an open prison together with Cheebreg. The report called the CPT Committee, the European Council's Committee on Defense and Inhumanity Treatment, in May and took out our prisons and pointed out that the equipment for women in Copenhagen was inadequate. Because of their comments, the decision to move and make a special women in an open prison was immediately made that Sogni could have women in open prisons. It is a suitable facility for women. I have visited there during the days - I have tried to visit all the prisons, in fact, after Chebbregó - and I have had a conversation with both the prison office and with the prisoners there, who are also important to hear from them what our prison system is like. Of course, there are variety of tasks. Some of the prisoners are studying, but there are other jobs. Because of what? A member of the council asks for improvements in Sweden that have not been made as a special decision, although I will certainly agree that circumstances can be better, including those that may be better. Staff. However, much of the prison system is being examined, and we also win. following the operation schedule, where Little-Reunion was the greatest need, in housing options. This calls for action, but the prison was built in many things and perhaps not with the direction we would like to pursue today's prison affairs. The task force also set up important mental teams who have already begun their jobs in the country's prisons and are very pleased to hear from both prison authorities and the people themselves as to how they prove to be true.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u28	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and apologize for not being properly informed that there are more than one open prison. The staff report to the highest level. Social and child - care minister has ordered improvements in social conditions for individuals who have completed penalties in prison, in this approach, it is said that there is a need for more emphasis on recovery procedures than punishment. When a person is judged, it is important that he or she be a part of a recovery process and that an individual recovers from a judgment until he returns to the community. Clearly, open prison is part of a healthy process for those who go through such things. There are inmates of both men and women, so I feel that they should be raised and increased - maybe not prisons can be spoken of as an opportunity - but to increase such space and to prepare for them and especially that there are special space for women.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before and agrees that we are to focus on this process of recovery. There's a lot to do in prison. The prisons are not supposed to be a storage place for people. Rather, we should try to create the conditions where prisoners can become active members of society after graduation, and we should try to reduce the return rate of prisons. We have now opened this special corridor for women in Sogni's prison in an open space. It uses only one space, but there is an opportunity, like a dog. One senator says, for more women to be, there is room for women who can go to open prison. But we're working on a very broad range of policies, at the Department of Health, at the Ministry of Social Affairs and at the Ministry of Justice, to appeal to prisoners. I agree with what. A senator will put forth great effort to put it first.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u30	Mr. President. I was away last week and missed interesting discussions on a different report, but I think it's time to come here now and build on the discussion I studied. While it may indeed be considered to some extent that this request may be viewed as a distrust of the Ministers who have handled judicial cases, internal affairs, and transport matters in recent years, it is not what I would like to mention specifically, but that in the discussion of the last week, some members of the council, especially those who are on this request, were unable to make a statement because, if defined as it might be, the statement and interpretation of them, preferably a major politics was in the report and even being prepared for some council, bill or something, and it would be quite impossible to ask for such a report. I support the report request now because I support reports in general, but I can't resist coming up here and saying that when I read about this request, both report and various teams, it's a story to the next town and even the next town to the House of Independence, you won't be able to stand up and say that this is a consideration and suggest that you take a body of organisations in power over certain areas - but I support this petition. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u31	V.E.G. President. There's a reason to thank you. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson for supporting this fine request. If she reads it and compares it with the report request we discussed here less than two weeks ago, she will see there are some differences between them. However, the bottom line of the matter is that at the Parliamentary Committee and the discussion that has been conducted there, I have continued to have that viewpoint, and will continue to make it more natural for the general report requests to be discussed by the Parliament before they proceed in the council in a way that would be at least a comment can be made before a vote is made without the fact that it will only happen through a one-minute downturn, as it is now possible. I think it should be, in both this report request and other published reports just to improve the situation, not to delay or interfere with the ability of members to get the information they really want to achieve. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u32	President. It has been very clear, as in the last week's discussion, that just because of the conversation that takes place here, even though it is a minute on a person, there are many in the hall because there is going to be a vote. This has led to their deportation of the reports, improved, and reimbursed. The process today offers exactly that without putting in some kind of obstacle that might otherwise be used to stop or discourage reports from members of Congress. The current process allows for this as long as possible. A senator is saying that there will be some discussion and tips that will have led to the adjustment of reports requests.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u33	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson's statement that in isolated cases, members of the council have agreed to change in some way their report request, but it has happened under the premise that in the air there has been a threat of calling that person to report at the council. There is no need for such matters to go on course, so the panel has suggested that there was some easier way to get involved with members of Congress for a report request before it comes to vote. I think it would be much better if it were inserted into the Senate to include some form of prosecuting that the matter came to a vote, perhaps a discussion, or an opinion on a committee, but, of course, with the premise that in the end, members of Congress could make a vote on the petition as they would like it to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u34	President. I don't understand a request that's different than just a request for information, that they're being asked for and collected. It is not surprising, then, that the Independence Party somehow prevents this by discussing whether this is the correct information to ask for or if it can be done in this or the other way. I don't get it any better, but I'd like to hear if I got the wrong impression in any way. Is it not our proper to ask for information? Does it have to be complicated? I don't fully understand the opposition here at this very simple information request.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u35	A respectable president. I just want to keep it in the light of the discussion, because it's a discussion at the Senate Committee, that the ideas that have been discussed there are not about preventing information. We have an example of a request made by the prime minister for one year. However, it is said that reports should be submitted within a particular period of time. They just don't all fall within that time frame, and there's one thing we might need to check before we accept a report request. Can you answer a request within that box or not? Is there any reason to consider that, e.g. Is there anything else to consider regarding a report request? It's practitioner information. Ideas have come to realize that if it is very important and big, it can be placed before a committee and that the committee will be provided with some technical information to provide when the report request is taken for release, that it follows, and then it is due time to win the report, perhaps six months, and not 11 weeks. [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about. It has never been shown in the House of Congress to stop anything, and it will never be taken from members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u36	A respectable president. I only need to get involved in this discussion, especially after a word. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen of calling for information. The difference is that if there is a problem. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen has an inquiry to the minister she is signed by the President, then that inquiry goes inside the Ministry, and it's answered there. When we're talking about a report, it's a press request from the General. We in this room shall vote for it as required to us afterwards. What I brought up in a particular discussion is that sometimes reports are in a way that makes it difficult to write up on them. I've been speaking that we should have an opportunity to discuss a request rather than a vote. These are the only issues at a council that come in, and we senators are made to vote on the next day without having a chance to discuss them or digest them and make comments on what they say or say in the report by the request. This I have emphasized that I feel that there is more reason for me to discuss and in no way is there to stop or oppose any information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u37	A respectable president. Sports scare a little, as it's also been in the debate to get a handle on queries. It has been said that they are too extensive and so forth. I recently sent a request to every minister on the legal work of recruitment and institutions, and I found the answer, unfortunately, that this was too extensive a request to continue which I protested, of course, the agencies should know about their legal projects and the cost of them. It's simply what I was asking for, very light and simple for each institution to answer, although, of course, it's a lot of institutions and the kind that make the data very important. However, each individual organisation has a very simple query to answer. This is exactly what I'm pointing at. The answer is: No, I'm sorry, it's too much to ask because somehow all the data is so big and so big that it can't be kept in the queries. That's why I'm warning against putting thresholds on the profile requests of members of Congress that can go that way. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u38	A respectable president. I come up here to state the support of running through this request. I warn you, however, that we are changing the seminars from the platform. I strongly urge those who are reviewing the Convention Act not to come up here and start censoring the report. I checked the report with this request. I disagree with Princesipielt because we are to impair our community's own determination rights. But all right, this is the opinion of the Independence Party members, they submit this petition according to their ideals and want specific information. That's what it's all about, getting the information that we can then handle, talk about, and see how you can do better on the subject. It's about this, and I'm just hoping that we're not going to take some mountain back route by compromising the role of senators in the Senate Hall, whether it's members of the council or if they're members of the council. I encourage caution in changing the reporting request as soon as I give the support of allowing this report request to pass through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u39	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of whom I wholeheartedly agree as always. I support this request, and it is the Court's right to make a statement like this to call for further information, whoever it may be, and whether we agree with it or not. This is a beautifully prepared request to draw out the need to take the organizational authority of rural society at the time of the city's airport. This is just an attempt by independents to bring the area of the city of Reykjavík airport into the conference hall. All right, then we can just take that discussion. That's exactly their right. However, at the same time, I find it dangerous to discuss the members of the Independence Party with someone to censor the reports of others, that they are the ultimate authority on what is considered good reports and what is bad to ask. [[The president calls.]] Their role is no more than that of other senators. Therefore, I support this request wholeheartedly, but this is the proper course for members of Congress, even though I do not necessarily agree with its political paramour.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u40	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the laws of personal protection and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018, a silent personal guardian. This adjustment comes from the General and Education Committee. 1st par. It reads: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. mg 36 st. The law says: A personal protective representative is forbidden to tell anything he has learned about his work and to hide. Furthermore, as per section of the European Commission Act, there is a guarantee of silence on the P.I.P.A., as appropriate.◯ 2.g. is that the law is already valid. The reason for this change is the law No. 71/209, of the change in administrative law, where a new section on freedom of expression and silence were added to administrative law, at the same time making the change of 1 mg. 36 st. The personal protection law should be said: According to the Treaty of the X chapter of the Treaty, a personal guardian is subject to silence. Since not all members of the P.R.A. are public employees, not all of them fall under the moral standards of government law, the committee feels it is necessary to correct the law. For the change, the law stated that personal protection alone would not be allowed to tell anything that they had been informed of in their work and that it should be hidden. In view of the fact that important interests are concealed in the fact that the P.I.P.'s members are bound to remain silent on the part of secret workers, the committee is obliged to make the above changes in the provision. Therefore, there will be no doubt that there will be a silent value as well as a governmentman in a private market or in a government market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a very, very small passage over a short bill. I just wanted to ask you how it goes together with a bill for the protection of the informants and if it is not necessary to put into the bill some kind of reference that, of course, a personal agent is allowed to tell the details as it says, i.e. that if the individual is witnessing a different type of work, he may report it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. It was in my opinion to make little change but important, though I did not have many words about it. Now we're on the General and Education Committee to discuss the matter on the protection of informers. I just admit here that I hadn't really connected these matters. This is an excellent reminder to reflect on this now that we are taking visitors into it. We may have wanted to have treated informants in a way that protects them so that they can present information that we believe is entitled to the public. Thank you. A senator for the comment, and we will discuss it on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. The purpose was to draw attention to this because we are working on many of these issues involving freedom of expression, protection of informers, and the like, and a warning. The General and Education Committee to keep in mind that a personal protective agent will have the same rights to report important issues relating to public interests, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u44	Mr. President. I would like to recommend that the General Assembly of Iceland condemn the treatment of refugees by the U.S. government of the United States. Transporters plus those present are the members of the United States, Hanna Katrín K. Gunnarsdóttir S. Jón Jánsson, Harðardóttir and Friðriksson Ágústsson, but also Ingi In Jónsson, a non - party member of the United States of France, Þorgerður Helgi Gunnarsson, Pirata's member, Brynjólfsdóttir Brryfjörður, Senator of the Left Green, as well as of the Parliament, the Þólíðður Hurðsson, Hannta Steindór Valdimarsson Kóðurðurðurðurðurðursson. So the Conspiracy proposal suggests that the General Assembly condemns the illegal and inhuman treatment of the U.S. government of refugees and their families against the United States border and that the government is promoting international efforts to divide families in an effort to eliminate international protection immediately. Mr. President. The reason for this synonym is obvious. Donald Trumps's government has in recent years intensified its policy against refugees from South and Central America to the United States. Since July 2017, the U.S. government has separated children from their parents and kept them in special refugee camps away from any relative, growing considerably in 2018. A more recent report from the European Safety and Cooperation Agency, by 2019 C.E., continues this increase. According to the U.S. Department of Health, thousands of children have been taken to special refugee camps, designed for children and young people, away from their families. It has also been observed that the registration and extramarital efforts of the U.S. government of the children who have been removed on the border are very lacking, so the number of children separated from their families is really unknown. There is a preposterous position in terms of humanitarianity, privacy, and family privacy. Finally, many of the thousands of children that have been taken away seem to be missing, their trips are irrefutable, and the United States government could not say what had happened to the blessed children. In 2018 the international community responded with clear messages and encouragement to the U.S. government to stop separating children from their parents in the border, with such treatments on children in foreign treaties intended to ensure that human rights are not broken. A human rights organization, as well as representatives of the United Nations, condemned the actions of the U.S. government and following the judicial decision of the federal court of California from June 2018 in Ms. L against the U.S. border - control organization, which required that separation of children and their parents be contrary to the laws, announced that children and parents should be abandoned. It should be reiterated that this was June 2018, but it was never stopped. It should then be noted that the United States is the only United Nations government that has not validated the United Nations Children's Convention, the most widely distributed human rights contract on earth. Its validation includes the commitment of a state to ensure and respect the rights of children, including their unscrupulous right not to be separated from their families. Human Rights Watch has noted that despite the U.S. government decrees on stopping children from separate from their parents, the action has been proposed, and the inhuman treatment of children as well. The U.S. government has recently adopted rules that they say would provide protection for refugees who are ordering them to turn away from the border of the United States and to stay in Mexican villages without necessary protection and without necessary training for children and adults. Also, there are travel documents that are taken from these refugees, so people are sent back to Mexican villages or other cities or villages without any personal evidence that prove that they share. This makes it harder for these same refugees to apply for international protection as well as to return to their homes. In June 2019, the Mexican government stated that more than 15,000 refugees from Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador were thus converted on the border between Mexico and the United States, and were placed in Mexican border cities until the U.S. government wishes to receive and process their applications. These 15,000 individuals include 5,000 children and also pregnant women and a number of other individuals in a particularly fragile position. The above report and information from the ASE will discuss this treatment of refugees, and they will see whether evolution has been for the better, especially after U.S. government declarations of a humanable policy in child - flight matters. From October 2018 to September 2019, more than 76,000 children entered the United States. More than 473,000 refugees came with both parents and more than 300,000 with a single parent. The 76,000 children, inaccessible to children, increased by 52% between 2018 and 2019 years. When the children's background, especially their unsupervised, was the largest part of them from Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador, as well as from Mexico, is fleeing both poverty and violence. The OSE data from this same report show that the average duration of separation between children and families during this year is 154 days. There is 22 weeks of separation between children and parents. Please note that this is the mean separation time. Some have to endure separation from their parents for a long time and up to a few years. The majority of children are boys, of which 40% of children are under ten years of age. 103 children separated from their parents during that period, that year, were under five years of age and down to several months of age. These children taken from their families were kept in special camps for refugees, and these camps have received a complete drop score from patrolrs. Is known to be fatal at least Seven children in such a situation. Watchers have noted that the situation is directly harmful to the health of the children, often resulting in the birth of alcohol, careful hygiene, and physical treatment of the children directly characterised by violence and neglect. This equipment is not limited to the camps where children have been separated from their families but also to the refugee camps that house an adult. Despite the conclusion of a court in June 2018 that children should be separated from their families, 900 children were separated from their 2019 families with the peculiar argument that this was done in behalf of their own children, as oddly as it sounds. Is it clear, then, that the U.S. government continues the inhuman and demeaning treatment of children of the flight that was condemned by the international community and that these council members of the Council concluded that it was necessary for the Icelandic government and the International Assembly to deliver a clear message to the U.S. government. Similarly, with the approval of this body of Congress, the General shall submit to the requirement of human society in many parts of the world, the key to the full adherence of international commitments. Mr. President. I can't finish my story talk to a previous story talk. this case without referring to the status of fugitives in Iceland. There are, of course, very different circumstances than those that make up the synoptic proposal for which the subject is addressed. Here, children are not separated from their families or kept in cages or refugee camps where food security and conditions are actually dangerous. Still, we cannot complete this discussion without challenging the Icelandic government to review their case regarding children who are fleeing. So we might also be here today to discuss a synonym where the Council condemns the flight of children by the Icelandic government, which has a better time. Here the government does not seem to consider children to be in a particularly delicate position. If they are to flee with their parents, they are considered to be in good position. According to the Icelandic government, while a child may be considered to be the nature of the situation in a more sensitive position, it is in the interests of the child to follow his parents from the country, but the government has not looked to the right of parents to build their rights for protection here on land on the basis of the child's particularly delicate status. I believe that things have been completely turned upside down, for it can't be especially in the interest of a child to send it out into complete uncertainty without the child's housing, food security, and any future, even though there is no home, security, and lack of a vision for the future. There's no argument on which to base, Mr. President. The Icelandic government has sent one child out of the country every week for the last six years, 317 of them. Last year, the Icelandic government sent out 74 children and based their decision that this was for the child's best interests. So at the end, I want the Icelandic government to revise their therapy for the escape of children but also encourage a world of Congress to provide the way of this council agreement and suggest that it be sent to where it belongs. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u45	A respectable president. As the senator's case showed, I am one of the representatives of the case, so I take my heart to it and thank you for the fact that it has been presented. I'd like to follow the last words of what happened. A senator says that we look closer because I think it's very important in this context. I think we need to look a little wider too. Here we are dealing with a synonym that is particularly about the way the U.S. government treats children on the run. The Icelandic government can examine its course when it comes to dealing with refugees of all ages. In general, the European authorities can do the same. As long as the United States separates families, the European Union has chosen a way of flogging the Mediterranean so that only the flying bird will be able to cross and then support the installation and care of the refugee problem by shopping in Libya, where people live under very poor circumstances. Icelanders are trying to send people out of the country as fast and safely as possible, so it has been the core of Iceland's refugee policy for a very long time. Also, we saw our cousins Dani, who have not, like the whole European Union to Libia, Danir has set up his own refugee camps where people who cannot be reimbursed, people who have been turned into the dance reservation, are being kept somehow in limbo and even treated for years under bad circumstances. In fact, it has gone so far that in Denmark people are speaking about it that Denmark has stopped participating in the European Convention of Human Rights, reporting on the European Court of Human Rights because they find this ill - treatment for refugees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to answer, and he agrees that we should look closer. It's just a coincidence that makes this council proposal come into play today, but I don't think that there's ever been a better reason than right now to discuss it and this party as he does, especially for us. In Europe the situation is not good at all. In 2018 there were 30,000 children in Europe, of whom 70% took refuge in three countries, Germany, France, and Greece. We all know what the situation is in a refugee camp in Greece and because of it. A senator mentioned how the situation is in Denmark, that it has been denied protection, yet it is impossible to continue, as well as the situation in Iceland. Those who had previously received a post in Greece and were protected and status of refugees in Greece, or those who were in a refugee camp waiting there, are not sent today from Iceland. At that time, governments consider it to have some end of their treatment that they are no longer in the uncertainty, that it is better for the individual to get negative results, not receive any physical treatment, than to be held here only weeks, months, and missies together. It is entirely absurd to invite children to do this, so as soon as it is clear that they will be brought back to Greece, the Icelandic government will be responsible never to send children in the circumstances in which they live. I think it's clear to all of us that there would be room for human rights violations, and they need to be decided on their issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u47	A respectable president. It's a small, light change that I recommend, but it's still amazing. This bill of the change in government law reads: - Uh-huh. - Instead of the word '- 1'. 1st Section 5. The law will come on February 1st.How's it going? 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ The bill has been submitted before, but it has not been completed. An enforcing law on government finance assumes that financial plans will be submitted no later than April 1. However, a financial strategy is a very important controversy proposal that oversees government policy for the next budget as well as for the next five years. If the matter is to be well considered, it is necessary that sufficient time be given for the concierge treatment of the proposal, both in matters of conversation at the Senate Hall and in the presence of a regular committee, but also in the case of a narrative. Since budget should be the first issue for each fall council, it would not be unusual for the first case of the spring council to be a financial program. February 1 may be a legalist in this regard, a brief time after the New Year's Eve, and a recession on that occasion. But I think that when we put this in the right gear and it's already done, financial plans should be able to be the first issue for each spring council. However, we suggest that the basis for February 1 is at first. I would have no objection that this might be March 1st, if the first steps were from the date of April 1, that would be March 1 and then February 1 and finally possibly the first language of each spring council. Discussion of the financial program, such as production of public financial laws, was to be designed to draw the budget a little clearer, extend its basis, put everything in perspective, and, in effect, reduce the scope of the budget bill for the fall election, which has been partly successful, perhaps less in the committee work. Then a second gear might be taken in the commission work around the budget. For this to be possible, the discussion of the financial program must have been more thought - provoking. As it is now, April 1, she is falling into the council, usually around the time of Easter, which is the period of news, and then there is a very short period of time, in fact, about month or something that the council has to complete the financial program. Of course, as I say, it is one of the biggest cases of every government every year to put forward its policy, its cost, and its priorities. The budget must call for one of the biggest coverages of the council in the entire history of the year. That's what we're talking about, and the basis for the funding that the Council has a budget to give. It's directly connected to the constitution. Starting earlier at the spring council dealing on financial plans is absolutely necessary, and I think the ultimate limit should be February 1st, if not the first case of each spring council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The book of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for his history in an interesting language that focuses on a change in the law of government finance and the article that states that a financial program that is truly important, as shown in the report on the bill, is presented at the latest on April 1. It is desirable to present in time for all discussion of the matter at council and for reviews. This is important because this is certainly a very important matter, and in government policy, there are both financial and financial policies and such agreements with rural society. What I was going to come up with questions for a reason. The senator turns to the future, i.e. The channel and work that must be carried out in institutions and councils, and what are the theoretical reasons for this. There is another reason why this is so because it is in the law that economic precursors should be taken into account and economic forecasts, etc. I think it might be a project of the Committee because it's not very thought-of-the-book with the bill, i.e. the end in front. But that would certainly improve, and I agree with it. A senator said we'd give the council more space to discuss the plan. I think it's possible, and the main thing to do is work on it, but I'm asking if it's possible. A senator has made a special inquiry because there was a lack of it in the report, this time in front of him.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u49	A respectable president. Prarkic possible in the institutions - this has something to do with the most, considering the information I have received, the time to close the last budget year. In fact, it is simply closing the last year of the budget far too late. There's nothing more complicated than that. Yes, it would take a measure of effort to reach that date in the previous year, and it might be reasonable to start on March 1 in order to give room for the institutions to complete and organize this date down to February 1. It should be possible to close the year based on the setting of public financial laws, paying the foundation, when paying bills, etc. There should be a much greater flow between the ages of law on public finances than before. Then it comes out into plus and minus, as appropriate, they're moving budgets from year to year, not dropping or funding back into the future. I think it's very possible to reach this date again, take into account the reason it's so late now. I think it's absolutely necessary for the council to work on this Prarkish failure, which is at the moment that the previous budget year is not closed until this late. This is absolutely necessary for just what the Congress should have received much more information about how the past year went out and, as I suggest in the bill, within one month.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to that question was given to Björn the son of Gunnarsson. Yes, it is. A senator comes on, this practitioner's pretext for closing the last year's budget, it has to be done. I agree with what. A senator says it's possible. The answers I have received from institutions are also in the sense that it is possible. I think discipline and orderliness around the law and the financial process all make it possible that we are now on our way to complete a budget talk sooner. It supports it. Then there's the other thing that comes to the politics. We can trace it to our last year that we changed, due to a change in economic leadership, a government policy before we finished a national budget. The circumstances may arise that such a course needs to be passed on. It gives evidence of being more involved in financial planning, removing the time, if such measures need to be taken. But in turn, it might be difficult for the political bitch, i.e. A private government, getting through the issues and the economics that are supposed to be fundamental, so there's a set chain that needs to be examined. I think it's worth a lot of attention trying to move the date again. I think it's just an assignment rather than an impossible thing to do, so I'll say it. I think it's kind of fun to go through speculation about getting this back in time and basically working with those who are working on a financial plan. [[The president calls.]] There's something else I'd like to share. The B and C components also need to be agreed with, and then the communities, as required by the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u51	A respectable president. Only with regard to the last section, it is not as sensitive to time as to other parts, e.g. closing the budgets of the last year to have the basis for an upcoming financial programme. In fact, I'm not quite 100% sure that it needs to close the budgets of the last year, have the precision in the box for the next year, for people know quite exactly at the end of December exactly what it is about to be completed, and any kind of frame they need for the following year. Because financial programs are not exactly to be exact, they are flexible in some way. Hence, it allows reserves and such to cope with traumas and inaccurate cost analysis. This is exactly what a financial program is all about, it is government policy, which they set forward with their priorities and the cost analysis of their priorities. So if that happens and there's some situation in the economy that calls for a review of financial policy -- it was natural to warn in some way that economicism would be too rigid, it's done just now, and it's a positive, financial plan may also be a bit rigid, it might have to be shook out in terms of setting up a definition of what happens if the economy is intervening together - it is just a matter of priorities and costing it. If this is a year's hard work, we can immediately see in the priority list which tasks are drawn together or can be delayed. It's already built into the financial program, which is just positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u52	Madam President. I must express great frustration. A senator and a first carrier. I thought he'd be so stiff on every worm that he wouldn't be ready to waver in anything from the written word in the suggestion, and I could come up here as the liberal man who would have something to do. He makes it impossible for me to be just very open to ideas about how to improve these things, that I think, interesting suggestion. I think me and what. A senator fully agrees on the need behind the proposal. But all kidding aside, I wanted to come up here and have a place to say. A senator, even though he, the president, answered a question about a date. I'm worried about her. If we look at the process as it is, where officials need to complete the number base in the budget before working on the next schedule and can hardly be closed until all changes have been done here, etc., I think February 1 is pretty well placed. As we have seen, there would have to be a number of other things that would change much earlier in the process before we could reach it, if we ever did. Last year, I wanted a bad one. A senator to get into it better. Well, at least not at all. A senator has made it clear that it is important to say that this is, to my knowledge, not necessarily a realistic date immediately. However, the thought that a financial program is the main subject of the spring council, and the council has time to discuss making changes that interests me well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u53	A respectable president. I just want to make it clear that when it comes to good reasoning, I feel especially cooperative. Yeah, I only drew attention to this in the previous year's answer about closing my mother. As much form list as I am, which sets a specific frame, we may still be a bit too precise to close the last year on a precise dollar. This is not necessary to be exact for the next budget plan, since it is in the millions and tens of millions of dollars to or fro. The data are generally relatively well available at the end of December and even before. We have often received visits to a budget committee that introduces the senior position of the year and sees how the pay is done and so much so that we can expect the year to run out on this threshold. There is nothing enormous, and it is very easy to deal with them if they prove to be unnatural or refractory in the treatment of the council, as is the case with the financial laws at any time. So this is not unusual. This is just the situation that we generally set up on February 1, based on the information we have, and if it proves to be based on very wrong reasons - based on my experience on a financial committee, it is unlikely that they will be able to come up, people will know the weaknesses in a relatively short notice, but whether we on a financial committee are allowed to know that on a very serious note - and it should be enough to make it all the way in which it works are working on accurate enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u54	President. Interesting discussion, I think. Sounds like everybody's back there. Council members who have participated in this discussion agree to say that a financial plan will be the main issue at the spring council, calling for more discussion and more change, and that mine knows more politics in the discussion, since no one is more revealed in politics than in government finances. However, I wondered, " Do I simply not limit the current presentation to this goal?'Then I wondered, " Am I starting backwards with another very good suggestion? ' A senator, whom I am very pleased to appear here so that we can discuss this. I've been looking to a law on public financial matters. I've had a lot of feelings about it. I'm happy with a lot of other things, much less. I've watched it so that we're starting a new process that's not a petty process. We have heard endless talks about the first few years in which governments were always being replaced, etc. I wondered, now that there's an experience in getting around a circle around the corner, if it doesn't just need a full-scale handle on this, we'd go to the international institutions that would cover just how we've been able to bring this into our lives. From time to time and how this will be included on the council program to production, etc., whether it is something we should do rather than make one date. I reiterate, though I agree with the new idea behind the adjustment proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u55	A respectable president. The presentation is yes. [[Up front.]] She's not so good right now, but not because public financial law is the problem there. You see, the presupposition does not follow the laws on public financial matters. There is no cost assessment, there is no profit analysis, and the priority list is missing. When it's done, the rest comes. If working with these conditions is the basic thinking of financial and financial schemes, then the rest of the matter will be relatively easy to deal with. But the current budget process is beginning at the wrong end, that is, in fact, working under the old State laws rather than on public financial laws. Management this only, in a different gear with regard to the date, gives people less space to work things just as usual. They must think of the basics that are shown in the laws on public finances and must be handled. When it's done, the other thing's about to go under, I'd figure. The data structure as well as the rest is a result of the principles I listed earlier, cost analysis, priorities, and the like. The greatest job goes to it, absolutely. If you start something else that takes a lot of time, then you don't have time to do what is important. I think starting with the date is not bad at all as a first step, but it looks like it's for whom and we get reviews about it, and then there may be other information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u56	Mr. President. I recommend here for bill to correct the conversion of collection laws, No. 95/2008, with subsequent changes, stated permissiblely. My importers are down. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún Arnaddóttir, Bergþór Birgir, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson and Sigurður Sæmundsson. The bill here for this discussion constitutes a pan together of other bills that I have brought along with my partners to support the family status and the loan market households. This situation has been troubled, and therefore I have brought a key bill here, a bill of what I call a request for insurance insurance from all directions, as well as a number of inquirys about how to treat the homes of the citizens of the crash and its aftereffects. Mr. President. The bill was previously submitted to a 149th legislature, last Parliament, 769, but it was not successful and is now reassigned unchanged. The bill is rooted in the opinion of the emissary of the Generalist in the case of No. 8302/2014 due to the complaint of the household's Habitat Association on the lack of monitoring of collected activities. In the case of the matter, it was found that several companies who were involved in a collection operation were non-supervised, as it was unclear whether they were under the supervision of the SEC or Iceland's Legal Association, with the result that neither of them had actually been monitored. With law No. 55/2018 changes were made to collect documents designed to respond to the results of Councillor's agent in the aforementioned language. Since then, it has been suggested that the changes were not as effective as hoped it was. It appears that the work of a collected company is still unsupervised or unclear, and the change has not taken away any doubt about it. This bill has been negotiated in such indications. Accounts are divided into two groups, one in which the principle is permissible, and subject to the supervision of the FEC and the other to specific members who are not authorized. The exception principle including We're government agencies, finance companies, lawyers and law firms. This arrangement in itself is not unusual, in view of the fact that financial companies are, for example, under the supervision of the SEC but the National Police Association of Iceland is conducting legal functions. As a result of collecting the demands of clients, legal jobs, which can be defined as secondary work with the main activity, i.e. Law service. The corresponding waiver is e.g. Find in financial law, No. 161/2002, in the case of interoperative service, and given as a normal part of a more extensive field of activity. Nevertheless, it is abnormal and can create uncertainty and failure in monitoring if companies who have collected that their main activity can avoid the duties of the Marketing Authorisation just by signing their owners as lawyers. At the same time, it is a fall to disrupt the competitive position of the retailers with a license that meets all conditions that other companies on the same market may have permission. Therefore, with the bill it is suggested that a clearer separating be made between enterprises through legal services as main activity and companies that have collected for others as primary activity and that any disproportionate analysis of the activities of the latter, regardless of ownership, will be made. In view of the indications given by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, it is also suggested to enhance the information related to the provision of consumer rights and to appeal to the consumers for monitoring unjust business practices. Mr. President. On this issue we have a review of the International Habitat Association dated December 17, 2019. It explains how this bill is an essential part of making it possible for the SEC to establish a bond at a collection of illegal loans. It may also be noted that this is not only a follow-up for consumers but also a fall to extend the inequities of competitiveness in the collection of companies, depending on whether or not they are allowed. The review says that with the bill it is aimed at bringing down all the collected companies under the same law on permit and supervision, regardless of the personal status of their final owners. In this way, it is intended to secure equality and improve consumer rights to finance markets. At the present time, the bill for changing consumer loan law due to the so - called small loans has been used for the treatment of the Generals'crime scene. For this reason, the Agency's review calls attention to the fact that the bill on this topic is an important factor in stopping loans at unregistered costs, paying off all Icelandic taxpayers and the authority of the FEC. More part of the Economic and Business Committee is presented to you. 718 to 223 General for the 150th Department of Justice and Economic Affairs to explain more about legal operations and monitoring of the operation. The greater part encourages the speed of this work, and the bill will be submitted to the spring Summit. For this reason, the World Health Organization of the Internet points out that the main things that the organization believes are needed to sharpen are already mentioned in the bill on this subject. Mr. President. I'd like to draw the attention of the U.S. Congress to two questions I've recently proposed and related to the subject of the bill. The first request suggests the monitoring of a so - called loan company that lives in the hands of a consumer clinic. The request is for the travel, industrial and innovation ministers of the administrative fines of a small loan company. It asks whether on behalf of the Nettorial Labs has been committed to a so - called loan company. It is very important to be informed. Second, ask: If so, which companies are involved and what are the fined offenses? What are the sums of the power fines, and when were they laid? Have government guiltys been paid? If not, what measures have been taken to ensure their collections? Then, Mr. President, I would like to have the context of an inquiry to the Minister of Justice on the processing and sharing of information on the debt that I will proceed more closely afterwards. The background of the request is that Perone Protection has issued a work permit to a certain enterprise for the implementation of financial and credit trust of individuals. Allow valid limits to May 1st, 2020. Mr. President. The job permit says, and it's available on the Internet: Unauthorized information on debt management is available. This is true if a debtor has truly expressed objections to the demands, reported the reason for the protests, and the debt has not been established by a judicial hearing or by the court's direct decision that has been announced in public advertisements. If a businessman is to make such a decision, a creditor is to say that a debt is not fully carried out, the debt again is controversial. My questions about this, which are presented here in the query to the highest level. Minister of Justice, include These: How to monitor financial information, cr. 2.g. Regulation No. 246/2001, don't win or share information on debt? The question is: How long can financial information be presented that adversely affects one's position, and how can it be ensured that it is not transmitted by that time? Then it's the highest. Minister asked: What are some of the conditions involved in the violation of the license? The question remains: Does such rules exist, and if so, how many are there, and how have they been responded? Finally, it's the highest. The Minister of Justice will enter depending on whether a minister should consider a reason for sharpening the rules in this subject and after the events advising the woodworks. Mr. President. I'd like to allow myself to guess here on a proposal for a resolution to be submitted to the General Parliament in the near future and related to the subject of the bill we're discussing. The financial system is well - known about sensitive information on the financial issues of individuals, especially when borrowing, e.g. to buy housing. The same is true when renting apartments. Among other things, it provides a basis for a so - called dissociation file prepared in an Icelandic company called a financial information agency. One such company works in this field as far as it will be achieved. Mr. President, there can be no situation where borrowers, perhaps indiscriminately difficult to respect, are in a position to influence a person's ratio to such a list, perhaps on questionable grounds. Such matters are serious and can have serious consequences, not saying that their name appears on such a list. The use of credit cards, the rent on an apartment, the loan to buy houses, all of this will be quite difficult for those whose name is on the restricted list. All of this leads to the fact that a rule of order in this relationship must be the means of making all preparations so that people are excluded from being pushed for material living by bringing their name on such a list. In the following few days, I will propose a proposal for a hearing on a review of the regulations for the implementation of a financial information agency, as these companies are referred to. I would like to, in the shortest case, an explanation for the concierge proposal that is due to her linking with the issues we address here. With President's permission, the text of the proposal is so said: The General concluded to assign the Minister of Justice to appoint a legal group that will review laws and regulations that apply to the implementation of financial information and the implementation of information relevant to financial and credit to individuals and to the legal bodies in order to communicate them to others. The staff give special attention to consumer legal status on the financial market in the processing of such information and provide suggestions for improving the status of consumers in this field. Then we will discuss how the group will be appointed and stressed that the National Institutes of Economic Affairs and the Neighbours will be designated individually. Then we will consult with the main organisations involved, including Personal Protection Agency, National Social Security, SEC, and other member organisations and organisations that may be involved. I say, Mr. President, when I'm dealing with the FDA, I'm of course referring to the section of the Federal Bank that is now holding on to what was once and is called independent financial watch, just to state it. In a paper with this upcoming Senate resolution, Mr. President, the operation of a financial information agency has been reported to hide. includes collection and registration of financial information and credit to individuals and legislation to communicate to others. In this country, there is only one company that operates in such a business. The work involved mainly the keeping of records of financial commitments, so-called dissociation, and the main commitments to financial companies, so-called credit statements. Is It Out? No. 33/2013, and fixing mortgages to consumers, No. 118/2016, the type of credit ratings has had increasing significance as a requirement for borrowing, but this assessment is based largely on information derived from the undergrading and credit status index, thus involving the automatic processing of personal information, i.e. The type of character format. Mr. President. I'm going to continue to refer to the report with the Congress resolution that I've presented here as the shortest case, which says, with the permission of the President: With the sentence of a new law on personal protection and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018, the law of law was comparable to that of the existing personal protection laws and the handling of personal information, No. 77/2000, on the processing of financial issues and credit trust information, a new reference was specifically referred to the implementation of personality information carried out in the process of borrowing and saying that this process would have to be based on a Persian protection license. Details on collection and sharing information on financial issues and credit trust can be found in the collection and sharing of information on financial issues and credit trust, No. 246/2001. Under the Regulation, the operation is subject to authorized condition and can be a physical protection bound to such a license to which it feels necessary at any particular time. However, with the sentence of a new personal protection law, the regulations were not taken into account. The need to review and clarify the rules for the implementation of financial information agency has been made clear following the 2008 financial breakdown in terms of concerns that have raised legitimate demands in view of consumer protection regulations. Especially in connection with so - called small loans with illegal high - loan expenses that have been, it will be safe to claim, Mr. President, a collection of scruples, including. by using the dissociation form as a threat and a threat to consumers. Therefore, by the Parliament's decree, the Minister of Justice will be assigned to appoint a team of re-examined laws and regulations relevant to the implementation of financial information agencies and to the implementation of financial and financial trust of individuals and to legalize them in order to communicate to others, with special emphasis on consumer rights. Transporters stress the importance of having access to such work as securing the interests of consumers, and therefore they will be assigned to appoint representatives. In addition, the work group is suggested to agree on the proposals and further application of them to partners and organisations involved, such as the remuneration organisation, financial companies and monitoring agencies. Mr. President. Now, I have completed an article in which everyone will be most relevant to the coming Congress arrangement and will be submitted in the near future to review a rule on the implementation of a financial information agency. Mr. President. Homes were to endure the harsh progress of the so - called financial forces in the collapses and the aftereffects. The defenses of homes and families were not built, and it seemed that the government, especially in the time of the government, was identified by the extraordinary irony that attracted itself to the Norwegian welfare, more likely with financial contributions and collectrs than with families in which many of them were allowed to struggle to save their homes, homes, their parents, and their children. The families were faced with overpowering efforts, especially when they faced a combined financial system and the government that guaranteed them all the power of the legal system behind the demands that were maintained in many cases by harshness, not to say indiscriminately or unwisely. Mr. President. This bill, and the other matters I've made here as a subject, include reforms for families and households, with the goal of improving their financial security. I'm willing to expect careful treatment for trouble. A Senate committee and a state body of good standing. Parliamentaries on the improvements here endeavor to make.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u57	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the conversion of collectments, i.e. on the right to collect, or to collect. Transporter, boy. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, has done extensive research on the bill, but I'm involved with him and I'm going to mention a few things. The bill is based on the opinion of the U.S. government agent, who pointed to violations of the collection laws and, like, the encouragement of the feasibility organization of the households, who urged legal reformation. The bill is here and offered with the purpose of making these specific adjustments. Hv. paritaprevir In his speech, Ísleifsson Ísafassson mentioned that this was part of a journey he has made, which he mentioned a link to the insurance policy. I am a messenger with him on a number of missions to control the environment that the people of the country have had to live with in the last few years, especially during a collapse and in the collapse that affected the homes of the country, resulting in 10,000 homes being offered up by people. This bill is one factor in seeking to bring justice to the creditors, to the people, and to the families of the country. It's part of it, and of course I'm all for it. The Internal Relations Act is such that persons who are authorized or authorised to collect demands have to apply for so-called collections, where the UNECE will be monitored, and then those who are free of this permission, i.e. Money companies, law firms. Is that quite normal, since lawyers often have to collect demands, which are part of their ministry? The F.O.P. is on the other hand, and on the other hand, the Iceland Police Department has been monitoring the law firms and their activities, but in the middle there are certain members to be covered by this bill, i.e. People or companies that have collected as primary but not as attorney service. Only in the present legal environment is it mandatory that a registered owner be a lawyer. This bill is intended to make up for the lack of observation in such companies. It won't be enough, if this bill becomes legal, that the owners of the company's company, who have collected the main functions, are only lawyers, but are subject to such companies, and therefore put under control, so that I explain a little what we are doing with the bill's contribution. It doesn't change, Mr. President, that lawyers and lawyers can still collect non-employment activities and they're under the supervision of the Iceland police union, which is, of course, the body responsible for their work as lawyers. The bill is also a matter of competition. It's about the competitiveness of those who are engaged in this activity and are under surveillance, as I have explained, that there are not any other people who escape such supervision. The leak is under way with this bill that there are enterprises in the community that are not under the supervision of the SEC or the Police Department - which is indeed, Mr. President - and have the law of these companies and that they are under control. After that, I hope the bill goes to a committee and there's a professional discussion, and then it enters the council, and it becomes a law at this council. This is a very important thing. This is a fair matter. This is a fair matter for the homes of the country, and this is a fair matter for the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u58	A respectable president. The world is getting worse, is often spoken of, but that's just not so. We have many examples of vast social advances in recent decades. One example is how we have been able to cope with heart disease worldwide. In recent decades, the incidence of cardiac deaths has been greatly reduced. It plays many features, especially increased emphasis on lifestyle changes, general prevention, and instruction on how to react to heart attack. I'm so impressed that this month is going on with a so-called GoRed campaign around the world that Iceland is not divorced. It takes real meaning to instruct women specifically about cardiovascular risk factors and how to reduce the risk of the disease because, despite all the good intentions that have been involved in prevention during the previous years, it was neglected to take into account that this is a disease in different ways in the sex. Women were simply not taught to know the symptoms of the disease themselves. This is being added to the GoRed campaign and some other things, but it's good to mention it here. No matter how much prevention we may take, there is always some group of heart disease, which calls for more specific and preventive measures, especially for inherited diseases that cannot be completely prevented. The proposed proposal is guided by the inclusion of a group with known hereditary heart disease that can be interrupted before a heart attack occurs, thus reducing the number of individuals particularly who experience young heart attacks. It is easy to calculate into this much health and economic benefits because heart attacks can often be prevented by diseases that are diagnosed early in a very simple way by lifestyle changes or just by simple medications that can control the disease throughout life. This does not focus on a special group. The suggestion includes a planned cardiac checkup by a health minister so that people who have a heart attack have a young heart attack, say under 50 years of age, and just if the Ministry does this, they will be assigned to their immediate relatives by examination to determine if they are at risk for inherited heart disease. In other words, if a young person is diagnosed with heart disease by having a relapse in a certain radius, all invited to go to a check. For this reason there is medical evidence, since heart attacks in younger individuals are most often caused by inherited diseases where hereditary hyperlipidaemia is the most common. Such an increase is very easy to identify and treat. As people get older, risk factors change so that such surveillance would probably not be the same in those age groups. As I say, if this proposal is agreed to be accepted, it will be of the Ministry of Health, and it would be expected to also be done by a health committee, evaluating the criteria for the implementation of this procedure, both age-specific and relation to immediate family members. There is also the matter of being protective. They need to make sure that all agreements in this process are well-informed, and we will not be well - trusting in the Ministry. In fact, if a family member has a heart attack, it can already be assumed that several of the people who proposed this proposal would seek help. The proposal is to reach out to those who do not recognize the potential or importance of cardiac monitoring. In fact, it might be wondered whether there could be more diseases or more risk groups, e.g. are certain groups of women at particular risk for coronary heart disease. Women who have had pre-eclampsia, hypertension, or diabetes during pregnancy are particularly prone to develop pre-existing cardiac disease. It would be fine if the health - care system were to hold these groups and simply invite them to follow up, identify with people at an early stage, so that they do not develop an unexpected and dangerous heart attack at an early age. After this discussion, I suggest that the proposal to help with the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u59	Mr. President. I recommend a bill laid out by the Council's Re-Election and it's about some kind of genetic tax. The bill involves significant changes in the arrangement now collected from the estate tax and taxation of the dead. This is a tax reduction bill, which means that, based on available data, at least about 80% of those who inherited a tax decrease. However, those in the 20% share and most will pay more credit than currently existing laws are expected. Basically, changes are made, and are much new, that the death toll itself is no longer a product of the tax or the tax product. Rather, the person who receives an inheritance is compared with the person who receives it. In other words, it is the inheritance of any person who is the opposite of the tax or the tax. The current law assumes that the tax layer, or tax base, is the value of the canal. There's a rule that can be withdrawn from 1.5 million. K. from the value of the farm before taxation comes. The rest remains under the current law of 10% genetic tax, but the number of heiress is not important. They divide them, so to speak, with this 1.5 billion. K. as a tax discount of some kind or a deduction before the tax is calculated, so that the more heirs, the less they are, the less the discounts are paid. The bill, as previously said, assumes fundamental changes. First of all, the tax stock will no longer be the value of the grave but the inheritance to which every heir falls. Then there is a new word that each heir will be detracted from his inheritance before taxation comes. The bill assumes that each heir will thus receive a deduction from a tax stock of up to 6.5 million. K. Second, there will be three stages of the genetic tax. If an inheritance is greater than 6.5 million, and up to 15 million, 10% of the amount of money in that range will be paid. If an inheritance is higher and there are in the range of 153/430 million, 15% of the amount of GDP is paid to pay. If you have more than 30 million in your inheritance, it's 15% of 15 million. And if the inheritance goes up to 30 million, we'll pay 20% of our inheritance tax. It may be most convenient to explain this with one or two examples. If we assume that an individual inherits 10 million, they do not have to pay taxes for the first 6.5 million, but they pay 10% taxes of 3.5 million or 350,000. According to current genetic tax laws, he would pay $850,000. If a person has a family of 25 million, he will not have to pay taxes at 6.5 million, but he will pay 10% taxes of 8.5 million and 15% taxes of 10 million or 850,000 plus 1.5 million or a total of 2.3 million beds, which is now appropriate. In response to a question asked to the secretary of finance for an inheritance and the sums of an inheritance tax that I made for the last council show that the median total value of the dead was 14.5 billion in 2017. K. This is not a mean value, but the median being less than 14.5 million is half and above 14.5 million is the other half. It also showed that the inheritance itself, or inheritance, of each heir, was treated with a similar median heir of 3.5 billion. K. Thereafter, more than 81% of those who inherited a year was found to be less than 10 million. K. Therefore, according to this response, it can be determined with any certainty that at least 80% of those who receive their inheritance will pay less inheritance tax than the current law and our proposal for restoration would include all who receive up to 25 million. K. your inheritance will pay less inheritance tax than it is now. In addition, the number of Heirs in each estate affects the total tax that flows to the State. Thus, it is easy to get it out that if the heir is one, there are 6.5 million not tax returns. If there are two, it's 13 million that don't come to taxes, and if there are three, it's 19.5 million, etc. So it affects how many heirs live in each one's income. The rate of higher taxes in 20% of those who receive an inheritance is self-registered on their own levels. The tax rate, however, will never be higher, no matter how large the inheritance is, never exceed 20%. It may now be 2 percentage points less than money paid for fiscal taxes. Mr. President. No one has the right to leave behind a legacy of estate in a estate to be divided between an heir. In living life, the free gift of their possessions is in harmony with the laws and rules. An inheritance will not exist until it is made up. In a sense, it can be said that chance is a matter of exchange, thus increasing the property and potential of an heir. It is only natural for the heirs most to receive the tax more than anything else. The change also helps to reduce the collection of material things in few hands, even if in a small way. By personally binding the discount, others receive their inheritance without tax returns. Thus, the inheritance is more distributed to individuals in the community as genetic taxation involved in the State divides the smaller population of the dead, all of which have been observed, 80%, will decrease. This is a need for change without doubt. It's a tax drop. Based on the data I have in my possession, it may be reasonably estimated that the tax reduction to this 80% level can be estimated from a value of 1◯1.3 billion, carefully calculated. The objective of the bill is not in itself to reduce the total tax pay of the State by means of a genetic taxation. He is primarily reducing the tax burden of those who are 80% of the recipient's share, primarily to reduce taxes there. This is, I think, a procedure that is reasonable and natural and will, in most cases, lead to the development of one's inheritance without a great or a few taxes, in very many cases, and can enjoy one's inheritance. The most available, in 20% of the total, is in itself no pity to pay taxes that could be at the most close to 20%. That's not much tax recovery. I think it's a very reasonable tax returns, and I think it's also very important that we look at the inheritance as an object that falls into the heir's lap, so it's his gain. It is not in itself, and that is the fundamental change, being taxed by ourselves. They're taxing the share of property and income for the one who gets the inheritance. It is natural for such funds to be taxable as soon as it is normal and fair to a primary thirst, since these amounts are not very severe, receive substantial financial resources, do not pay taxes or much lower tax than they are currently. Mr. President. I expect the bill to receive careful and good treatment and publicity on a committee but I suggest that the case be referred to an economic and business committee for further discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u60	President. I'm here recommending a synonym, but the movers with me have a problem. The members of Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Anna Kolbrún of the Árnadóttir, Þólg K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir the daughter of Avvar, and Steinunn the Þóra of Árnadóttir. It is no coincidence that a large percentage of this body of members of Congress is serving in the National Council of Iceland, since similar work has been done in the video, accordion between national and national countries, and particularly electronic sources. This council proposal has now been made for the fifth time. Unfortunately, it has not reached its final approval. I think, Mr President, it's an enormously important matter that affects all of us. The text itself is short, I'm going to let myself read it: ▪ The General concludes to hide the Minister of Justice in order to appoint a group of workers to produce a reliable version of the state and a budget for the costs of using the certificate. In the line of work, representatives of Iceland's National Records, State Marshals, National Social Services, Economic Associations, and the U.S. Department of Economic and Economic Affairs are represented, as well as the Ministry of Justice. The task force then takes into account the work of specialists who are now working on a coordinated Norwegian ID or norse Minister identification panel. The Minister of Justice appoints the head of the task force. The Ministry pays expenses for the staff group and provides them with the facilities and necessary expert services. The Outfit shall render their proposal to the Minister of Justice no later than December 1, 2020. President. The objective of this group and the publication of such documents is to have it available to all Icelandic citizens and citizens of other countries living in Iceland and to carry rights and responsibilities. Among the work groups, it is possible to make personal identification, such as a driver's license, available in smartphones. What has happened since the conclusion of this matter is that considerable work has taken place in the order of the convention, i.e. to allow driver's license to be available in smartphones. Here, three types of physical identification are generally accepted, i.e. passport, driver's license, ID. None of these certificates match the definition of a smartcard, but most new, secure, and multi-use certificates are made. A passport letter, however, is prepared with microchip that guards the picture of the passport holder's fingerprints. Iceland's national records supply passports and IDs, but local authorities are responsible for the publishing of driver's licenses. A national file also releases an Ice Key, which is a password associated with an individual social security number or legislator and can be used to interact online with a number of people and a national taxpayer rather than a web code that provides access to materials on the local website. It is proper to state, President, that the majority of the EU countries publish identity ID in the form of a smart card. Some of these are valid travel conditions in the Schengen area and in many cases they are associated with electronic IDs. The report has a fine way of considering a foreign precedent. The idea here is being developed by an appointed task force. There doesn't have to be many words to say that this is, of course, the future, it's here that we're headed, that we all have a reliable ID in the smartphones or in some other way electronic form. This is an electronic ID published by ID ID Ehf. which is owned by financial companies and Simans. The electronic certificates are either built in a debet card or in a SIM card. There was also a reference to the Isthmus key published and, President, it is appropriate to state that in any way, this is not going to bring reproach on the identity that we already live in, and I've gone over here. The safety profile of electronic documents published in 2013 confirmed the safety profile of the electronic countries released here. Since the spring of 2008, Iceland's root, which the Ministry of Economics and Economics, has published a so-called cross-linking state as "Ehf." uses, in turn, to end boundaries such as those used in electronic media and in public relationships. Then we know, Mr. President, those of us who bridge technology and tools, as well as e - mail on a phone available to banks. In this regard, it is good to note that Norway is among the countries that have made changes in the publication of personal IDs to meet the growing demand for it. In June 2015, the Council adopted a new certificate of identity that, in part, hides. in that the police have been given the responsibility of giving a reliable ID to Norwegian citizens and citizens of other countries living in Norway, where they have rights and obligations to governments. In the meantime, banks in Norway had produced a distribution of electronic documents to their clients, but the representatives of these companies indicated that they believe this was better established by the government, as it were government projects. This and a number of other matters for which the Member State's work was published in a more detailed report with a bill on identity ID in Norway in 2015. President. As I mentioned, it has been done in the National Council and particularly within the Norwegian Ministers'Committee to establish integrated Norwegian ecology or social security. Such conditions would be economical for the inhabitants of the Northern Nations and would violate the many administrative barriers between countries. A vast task has been set up in the Northern Council to eliminate administrative barriers between countries. The publication of secure government sources would simplify the coordination and coordination of norse electronic sources. It is important for people to be able to get reliable IDs because there is an opportunity to use rights, to enjoy services, and to communicate extensively with electronic media. Since this certificate always contains sensitive personal information, it is imperative that the full safety requirements be met. Transporters of this body of Congress feel that it is time to take a national version of this country to countersee and reorganize it with the aim of revealing the release of safe and electronic and material sources, and to operate the databases necessary for this purpose, to end this project with the basic security of the citizens and to the unequivocalness of the public. Citizens are required to have IDs in various circumstances. The public publishes all kinds of material identification, at least three types of them. It's not normal, but it's not that the government also publishes unexplored electronic and safe official identification. I don't doubt that one second we're going there, and that's where we're going to end up, i.e. that we do not always need to be looking for the things we are materially and in terms of our land but, rather, are carrying them electronically. But the precise implementation of this is something that the work force itself will find out, and that is why it is specifically specified by the experts working with him because it knows the person who knows that I am not an expert in it. But I have no doubt about it for one second, as I have said before, that this is a matter of interest to all who live in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u61	A respectable president. Here is the identity that then left the State and is one of these classic examples of the state's creating and giving something for the private person, and now the budget is available to get it back. I guess that wasn't profit from running this business in the arms of a private person. That's a lot of fun. But we have also heard on a financial committee that whether they buy to walk or not, whether they are caught or not, they will still be created with a new identity and with a public property. There's a lot in the group, e.g. of digital government, which suggests a very positive change of mental attitude about where the holding of the government makes for the tax money, which is said in the government. It would be in order that property would never be sold, holding this software as it was sold into identity would never leave the government's hands. It might be offered or something like that, but the state always had possession of the software so that when a contract goes out, it would be possible to invite others to take care of the business, etc., without having to lose it. I would like to ask, How is this far - reaching rather than just going back to the original identity that the State provided? And how does the internoristic thinking that's behind there work? I don't completely figure it out on technical grounds, it's going to be the internoristic root line, and then it's on the side of who? It gives us an idea of where the possession is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with most if not with everything that came out there. As for the possession of such a battery, I feel alone that it should be on the hands of the government. If it is the government that makes certain demands that under certain circumstances, we need to carry a particular type of government, business issues are not to be determined there. For example, the business plans should not be filled with the printing of driver's licenses or the publishing of passports or business certificates. That is why I feel that possession should be at the hands of the government, which is a matter of exclusive service that we render to the citizens of this country because we demand it. Also, I came up here just to see how this would be more extensive, because here is the thought that public identification can be published which would take over everything I've listed here. Of course, there are special passports, especially them, but also driver's licenses. Hv. A member of the Parliament did well to address the developments in the work group's discussion of digital government, etc. As I mentioned earlier, a driver's license has been considered in electronic form. It's, for example. did so in Finland, for example. Eistar are especially noteworthy in this regard. In 2002, the Estonian Empire began publishing the multilingual form of electronic documents, not on the telephones, in connection with IDs on maps. I may come into the Norwegian partnership later, I see that time is over, but it's always decided that Iceland's root is here, so I'll say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u63	A respectable president. I have been repeatedly told that all members of the Parliament and only all the administrations as she puts it should visit Estonia to learn how electronic management should work. You've heard stories of government meetings that run out in two minutes, where all the votes have been pressed because it's on formal grounds that it has to be in the same room or something like that. Otherwise, the meetings could have run out without people meeting. The electronic management program there offers such opportunities. You can see that ideas about electronic identification provide practical and safe options for the people of the country to be in contact with the government, even in elections; this may be a basis for some kind of electronic vote, such as the signing list that is already going on in the country.is. The need is definitely there, and it is positive to get along with this group more comprehensive ideas on how this could be done. The basic question I had earlier is, How is this much more than what electronic ID does now, and the state would take over or just do it again? Why does more need to be done? I haven't quite figured out these multi-use electronic documents, how they work. That'd be nice if it were. A senator might want to come in on it for a bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u64	President. The idea is that you have one electronic ID that applies to those you have today, including the ID published by banks. I mentioned earlier, since the banks directly asked the state to take over, as being a administrative role. In 2005, Sweden began publishing cards on smartcards, 15 years ago, and in part the decision by the Swedish government that banks in the country had not been made to provide the foreign citizens of Sweden with the identification that these companies provided. Here are some examples of multiple - use identifications. Like what? A senator named Eistar was exemplary in this regard. It may well be that if the group that I sincerely hope to become is established, they will find that everything assigned here will remain within the system that, for example, is within the same category. I.D.'s had it. It can be, and then we're just there. This suggests something new, not just that it is new, but to find the best way for all the citizens of this country to have secure electronic identification. All I want to do is scrimmage with the Norwegian partnership. They're working on a team of experts appointed by the National Ministers of Ministers to coordinate a norse condition. Part of what makes them work so complex is that there are so many people who publish electronic identification. Of course, it is just a solution and will not prevent this, but it makes the matter a little more complex, if it will answer some question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u65	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in college law and government law, changes to increase university freedom in order to evaluate the wide range of studies to be taken into their mouths. Today, at 19, we say. the law about university students who start university studies is that they have completed a student's test or an equivalent test. It also says, by permission of the President: ▪ Schools are intended for students who have equal maturity and knowledge, in the opinion of the university. Care must be taken to ensure that oral standards at university and school are consistent with what is required in established universities in a similar field abroad. This has, in the foundation, meant that those who do not have a student's test may have been evaluated in college and then on restricted authority. What we propose on this bill is 1st. Twenty-niner. The law of college puts it this way, by permission of presidents: ▪ College students should have the skills and knowledge that correspond to the school's demands on preparation for university education. A complete evaluation of applicants and evaluation of individuals who have completed the study, a male test or another professional, job or art student should be performed. Care must be taken to ensure that oral standards at university and school are consistent with what is required in established universities in a similar field abroad. A similar change, we propose a law on public college. This bill is with me. Councilmen Haraldur Benediktsson, Jón Gunnarsson, Njilli Friðbertsson, Páll Magnússon, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. It should be noted that the bill was previously submitted to a 149th legislature, the first of which was the first legislator. A senator and his current highest. Minister, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir. Sadly, the committee failed to be included, so we have not been told about it. The bill suggests that in law on university and government law, students with the skills and knowledge that accounts for the school's preparation for university education can be accepted into college. A student's test or a similar test will no longer be required, but it will be on the authority of the university itself to determine the different requirements for a single course of study. The bill is intended to put industry, to work and to work as high as a book degree in law on education conditions at university. With the bill, we feel that we are opening up a door to the university for students who have finished studying other than a student's test. Despite the fact that it is, as I entered earlier, certain leaves, they have met certain remainders when students are enrolled in college. It is clear, therefore, that industrial education or other means of study have not been as valid as the traditional academic test. The objective of the bill is, not to have more students go to university education, but to open the way for higher education to be received by a variety of students with a wide range of backgrounds, who have enough knowledge to study certain subjects. The student's test will no doubt remain the usual way to prepare for a book study, but if the bill becomes that law, it will no longer be the main check for checking. Colleges should be self-sponsored to determine the inclusion criteria for individual departments and articles within the school, whether they have an oral test or a test for a student. There is no reason for the Lawgiver to limit the university to oral standards, for no one is better off evaluating them than the schools themselves. Further implementation of this arrangement may be at university institutions. In this way, for example, increasing requirements for math knowledge may need to be made as conditions for certain courses and for increasing demand for science in others. In this context, though, increasing the freedom of choice to become a university student is important. For many years the need to increase the number of industrial and technologicalized people in this country and to increase respect for industry and to-do and other background. While there is a high level of employment shortage by industrial education, it is especially important to change the attitude of people toward education other than a student's exam. It will be accomplished only by taking steps to make a wide range of education as high as possible. It is now this way, a respectable president, that we have heard about it before the weekend and have seen it in the past few years, I think only in the last two years, that the application of industrial education has increased a lot, and now even now it is possible that the Technical School, which succeeded in the old Middle School, has had to be referred to to in increasing numbers by the lack of space or by no means available to receive more students. I think there's something we need to talk about here because it seems like we're getting some results in increasing the number of people who choose this study. In view of the fourth industrial revolution and the great development of employment, all agree on the importance of industry and technology. We also believe that this bill is important for those who go to that school to go to college, if they choose to go to it later, without necessarily going to what has been called preschool courses, or graduate as a technical student or something like that. In the foundation, I believe that a modern society calls for a more broad range of experiences. This was a significant discussion after the police school moved to the University of Akureyri, and we learned that industrialized workers had been rejected or that they had not been enrolled in the study and that they had arranged for a student test. I think one of the goals of setting up the police school at a university has been to further increase the education and knowledge of policemen, but it is also important that this class, like so many others, have a wide background. It has long been viewed as an option for the study of crafted education. I'd also like to mention in this context that I'm clearly middle-aged that I graduated my college degree, my BS degree, from high-tech school at the time. I began studying at the old Technical School and graduated from the University of Technology. Today, this school is united with the University of Reykjavík. One of the very special features of the old High School of Technology, and I hope that in some way it was possible to remain in the University of Reykjavík, that was the combination of the class. Not all of us were coming directly from high school to college. They were people who had a wide range of professional experience along with us, some of whom soon arrived after a student's test. I think this is also an opportunity for the university to be able to take in people with different backgrounds, and it gives a degree of education. In the paper with the bill, we refer to a picture that actually doesn't print very well, and I want interested people to look at it online, where it appears in color and is easier to read. It shows the share of students in high school who attend the subjects of university education. It turns out that e.g. In Finland, which we would like to compare with when it comes to education. Iceland has all the lower countries, I can't even read the percentages because there's only a few percent. Most other countries that we compare with and other European countries have much higher share, the average of which is about 65 to 470 percent. I think this is just another argument with this bill approved. In fact, I've also been able to talk about the fact that all trade should end up with a student's test. But we haven't made it, so I think there's a reason to change at least. laws about university so that students can be accepted with different background and experience. Of course, the university is in its own jurisdiction as to what they feel they need to qualify for study. In this context, I would like to mention that we have had specific emphasis on nursing, since very few have gone to nursing, and now shorter study opportunities are being offered for other university users. It could be a person who is a nurse with many years of experience and a number of courses, and you wonder why a person who was taking some flight to nursing would not be as well qualified as a 19 - year - old who was coming from high school to attend that school. As an example, consider creation, art studies, technical studies, whether individuals were not qualified to go to a degree in technology, engineering, or teaching, where attendance has not been enough. Actually, we are primarily arguing that when it comes to university education, the demands are changing so much. One of the things I think are going to be made of the greatest requirement for creation and that our abilities differ. Not all of them have left the book study, although I'm not going to talk it down. This variety is a big part of it. We have long discussed the need to increase the interest of young people in industrial education and technical education. We've been a bit busy in Iceland putting this in a box, you're either going to book study for a student's test or for a trade study and what future prospects you have. This would be one way to open only those boxes. I would also like to give an example of the high school in Faeroe Islands that I recently visited. They were very busy that students did not have to choose a box. Rather, they are all set out in high school, where they work under the same roof, and everyone can see what the others are doing, how easy it is to choose options between courses of study, thus increasing the skills of individuals and the diversity of study. I think it's something we need to look at even more. I don't think I need this much further, the report is thorough, and it's done well with the trends we've seen in surveys, what young people seem to be choosing, and where their priorities are when we're looking at them, as well as when we compare ourselves with other European countries. They seem to have been increasingly opening tracks in high school for college. I propose, a respectable president, that the bill will be followed by this discussion with the General and Education Committee, expecting that there will be a quick march here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u66	President. Hv. paritaprevir When she spoke of the Faeroe Islands, Brutsdóttir's Haraldsdóttir stole some of the crime from me. I had a what? A senator visits there. There I saw exciting ways, at least for us here, to match all our studies, where we walked past one room where we were teaching mathematics and the next biology and the next building, and then there was a large window where we were doing a car. I'm very much in favor of the idea behind this suggestion, and I've never completely understood the rules that have been going on, since I'm a simple man. Once it was so that if you were at a certain age, you could come to study and something like that, I've never really understood it. To me, it's a very simple matter. If people have the skills to study, they should be allowed to deal with them, no matter what they have completed up to that point. President. To help me understand a little more clearly what is behind the suggestion and how it is. Transporters visualize this, I have two questions about the proposal exactly. On the one hand, this entire assessment to be set up for candidates, according to this proposal for a change in the law. How do you see it? Councilmen for the fact that this is done? Are we talking about an oral test, or is it some other kind of food? And then it says here: It should be noted that oral conditions at university and academic requirements are consistent with what is required in established universities in a comparable field of foreign lands. What is the point? Faced with similar university demands in a foreign land, there are many people, and no doubt many of them have conflicting demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We were right there in the Faeroe Islands together, and I think that everyone walking through this school must become a bit fascinated by the ideologies there, apart from the beauty of the building and all of that together, primarily the ideologies of not setting anything larger or lower in study. I think that's where I think I'm at. A senator agrees fully. There is no need to wonder that some study allows for a chance to go to college and that it does not. Or you might ask yourself: " When you have a master's degree in industry, can you learn nothing more? It's just that you've become a champion, and you've got no chance at any further study. Of course, this is not the case in our modern world; there is a constant need for increased education and increased opportunities to improve our skills. What we have to do with questions. Then a senator will leave it in the hands of a university, as is in part under the law today. If I take as an example engineering at the university, the university may set certain inclusion criteria for learning that the person has completed a number of courses in mathematics or sciences or something like that. Or medicine if it's changing. So today it is really open, and we do not intend to change it. But the thing shutting down today in the law is that it is said that students have completed a student test or an equivalent test. It contains this closure which has been bitten on individuals in certain cases. In fact, that is what we want to open and feel that it is important to do. Yes, it could be so that colleges set the test requirements, so it is allowed in the law today and we are not taking it out. [[The president calls.]] The big difference is that we're stopping aiming at the law today, that a student has completed a student's test or an equivalent test. We're opening it up. [[The president calls.]] I'll answer the second question in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u68	President. This is exactly what I'm thinking because I think it matters what the project will be like. Are we suggesting that all those attending college need an oral test? How many people in college today are there 20,000, tens of thousands? I'm afraid to take it away. How does that affect us? I don't expect to know right now, I just want to wonder what we're suggesting with this, if there's any other means possible, as it's not foretold here. One is to set an intake test in a particular department or field where there is a high level of attendance; another is that it will be a general requirement to enter a university. In fact, that's how some colleges do, and I need to get tired of going. I want us to figure out what this means because it's gonna change a lot for a lot of the college students today, that we're aware of that. Again to my second question, back before now. A senator was going to come in here later. I feel the wording is open there. I understand the good mind of tourists, I'll take it out, Mr. President, I don't have some savings to be boring, and I don't doubt that this will be addressed at any time. General Education and Education Committee, i.e. to see what it is when we speak of a well - established university in a similar field. Other than that, I just want to repeat, Mr. President, that I think the idea behind this is very good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you again for the questions and the answer. So now I come to what I didn't get to say, about the sentence that's in the law of college: It should be noted that oral conditions at university and academic requirements are consistent with what is required in established universities in a comparable field of foreign lands. This is exactly the same line as in the article today, so it is not being proposed for any change. I suppose this is the case because we want a set of criteria, people running between countries, and then some evaluation can be made. For the entrance exams, that was the other question. Nor is any change from current law. I can agree with that with what. A senator should not have some absolute route into college at all, but it may be that some articles need this because the study is in a way that is difficult to handle too many. We can take as an example the dentist or the cure in which people continue to study or train or what they would call. Actually, that's not an adjustment. What is thought of here with the words: a comprehensive assessment of the candidates and an assessment of individuals who have completed a student's test, a child's test or another professional, job or art, is exactly so that those who have not completed a student's test can have an assessment of their skills and knowledge. It may be in some other area, such as a boy's test, an art test, or something, or a life experience and what a person has accomplished over the years. It's really just what we're looking at here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-17-59.u70	President. I do not present this case as its 1st transporter. That place is odious. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenfelddddóttir, but I get to relieve her in her absence. In addition to her members, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Þólán Wílundsson, Willum Þór Þórsson Thorthsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Sæland Góland, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Britti Haraldsdóttir, and who stands here. This vast group of members of Congress may also agree with the fine title given by members of the Synod, and this group describes it by presenting a strong desire to examine the status of children ten years after a collapse. In fact, time is passing, and now the years are bound to be 11. It took years after the situation was presented, and since time goes by, this discourse may also give us much thought to the fact that the children of the 1st class who were in the middle of the winter when I was not mistaken for my 18th year. In other words, it is time to stop being children, so it is time for this collective assessment of the status of children at the time of failure. The proposal suggests that the government has a group of members in agreement with the Children's Commission, the Children's Children's Children's Child Protection Agency, UNICEF, the Department of Social Affairs and other Community organisations and institutions involved in the setting and assessing the impact of the collapse on their situation and feeling on some extent based on social, psychological, and economic impacts, as well as where services to children were cut down and whether improvements have been performed in the years since collapse. Of course, in this context there are changes such as gender, origin, disability, economic status, residence and family patterns. This is an important assessment, in a way it is a process that was passed through by the government and here in this hall after a collapse. At this point, it is good to evaluate the overall effect and to draw lessons from the reaction to the crash and the changes in government management during the rough years of the crash. At the beginning of the collapse, the possibility of its long - term effects on children was much discussed. By agreeing with this proposal for action, you may be able to determine who they have been, whether they have responded correctly, and hopefully something learned from what was not done well enough, so we will be better prepared to cope with the next tragedy when they ride without their biting children or other framing groups in the community.
