ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u1	Mr. President. We're getting a little tired, because it's past tonight. The matter was called up to the Economic and Business Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. After ASI's chairman sent us all letters and pointed to a lot of problems on the bill. I then requested that we take the matter up on the committee. The conclusion was that the change will be made to the old 11th. par., which is now 12. Gr., after what we did today. There is a new paragraph that reads: ▪ Come back for recruitment within six months of the notice day, the hired man should maintain the terms he already had according to the employment contract. Most of the economic and business committees have this proposal that I agree with. She's better than nothing. It would have been best if it had been for 12 months, as expected all ASI's bargains, but six months is better than nothing. After six months, the conditions work out for the year, however, that are discussed in this article. But I would like to add that employees should be reexamined in their age sequence, i.e. that employees who have been notified will be invited back to the job, if the company starts. Then you will begin with the longest age of working and then no more. ASI puts a lot of emphasis on it, and I agree with it. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to accept both adjustments because they are both reforms. I'm not going to give a talk on the whole thing. As you all know and remember well today, I can't support this case. Actually, I have to stay on red because there's such a serious situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u2	Mr. President. We are now at the conclusion of this matter, which in many respects has been difficult to grasp. Much work has been done at the end of the day. The Economic and Business Committee was called in between 2 and 3. Um, um... As a result of a discourse received by all members of the Parliament from the National Socialist Union of Iceland. The committee called out to them visitors from the Inter-American Union and the Organization for Employment. There they listened to the viewpoint and then the committee discussed the matter. I think the committee has reached a good compromise with the proposed adjustments. I assume that no one is perfectly pleased with her, and that's why I think she's all right. I'm gonna back it up, and I'm glad we have an agreement on this on the Committee. I'm not gonna put on long speeches, but I'm gonna be sharp. Councilmen to support the proposed changes. I think it's a good solution to a problem we all faced.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u3	Mr. President. Indeed, it is important to assist a company with drastic measures. The interaction between this bill and the extension of the part-change process is obvious. It explains the motivation for corporate managers to choose rather to resign people without adequate privacy on the bill. All too often, then, the reality of the reality may be that an enterprise will reveal its employees and enjoy its active work at the cost of the State and then kicks in when these bad things are over. Then I ask: Is it not a question of whether this route will ultimately disturb the competitive position of an enterprise? This bill would have been worse if the government members had agreed to accept the changes elected earlier today, all of which were rejected. Hence, the government itself must be responsible for the way that has gone. The members of the United States will say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u4	Mr. President. The process of narrative that we're voting for, and the process of subsistence is different. On the other hand, we're talking about a 75% income loss company, and, on the other hand, an enterprise with a 25% sharer share of the sum. I believe for these reasons it is only natural that there are different conditions in the process. The adjustment proposal that we vote for afterwards and would match ASI's viewpoint, i.e. The more part of the Economic and Business Committee is needed. She's a good compromise, and I'll vote with her.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u5	President. As I've mentioned earlier in this discussion, we in the Middle East would have wanted to go another way. On the other hand, we have endeavored to cover all matters that might be designed to cope with the current situation. However, I am quite worried about how this case has developed, and with the current adjustment of the proposal, I fear that there will be more unemployment, considerably more unemployment than there would be needed, and that less people will get a job if not a few on the lowest possible salary. In fact, if the adjustment is achieved, the situation does not guarantee the interests of employers or employees as it might be possible, the interests of both parties will be maintained. There is no way for us to vote against this case, for it is absolutely necessary, for both companies and employee, to run out today, for a month's match. But because of the mistakes mentioned above, we do not expect to vote for the change proposal and, if it is accepted, neither on the whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u6	A respectable president. By the time they introduced your resignations a month ago, lay a bottom line and knew that there were others coming. At that point, the number of resignations did not require economic motivation. This morning the German Union sent a distress call requiring three changes. More part of the Economic and Business Committee will deal with one of them. Instead of 12 months, they meet up with them halfway, offering six months. Half of three are called compromises. You ask yourself, "Whose language? ' The media of those who want to guarantee the rights of the employees? Who is the other group? Those who wish to walk in the rights and to be inferior? I don't know exactly what the compromise is supposed to be. What was forgotten, however, was to read the back of the report. You see, it identified what is the accident in this case. It's the combination with a bill on the extension of a part-change process. It tells the People that because there are different conditions for accessing the two options, there are going to be reforms in the reporting process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's the accident that could have been prevented today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u7	A respectable president. I've told you before about this matter that I believe this decision will age very badly, the decision the government intends to make. Economic incentives for reporting in times in which we want to keep the economy going are not in order to provide them with a form of resistance that the government is speaking unconcerned that it intends to provide Icelandic employment. I remember that when it's the highest. During the day, the prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter was asked on a Silver Show whether she should have no further consultation with the opposition, but she answered that ultimately it was those responsible for this decision, although she would certainly keep her position of government informed about her plans. So, all I want to do is come here and say that the responsibility for this mistake is complete on the shoulders of the government, as history will show.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u8	A respectable president. These are resources that consider enterprises that have suffered by 75% or more of the total loss of income. It is totally absurd to discuss in the context of our being here with some sort of financial motivation for corporate resignation. You have to be aware of only a lot of the companies we're talking about. The plot is absolute. These are firms that don't have the monthly fees. When we narrow the parts of the improvement process, it is also not acceptable because we are going to take the threshold up to 50% and they do not have half the pay. In this case, we are making sure that all companies who land under a drive of income in the terrible situation of having to resign from people whom these companies really did not want to do can fully meet the same rights, pay every month on notice, pay remuneration as well as holiday rights. [[The president calls.]] Without this issue, the position of all the employees working in companies who have suffered a major loss of income would be in chaos. [[The president calls.]] It's ridiculous to talk about this case being the motivation to resign.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u9	Mr. President. Yes, it may be the highest. Secretary of finance says it's ridiculous. I'm sorry because it's not just ASI that's said it. It's a lot of employers who happened. The welfare committee. They pointed out that the discrepancies between these two strategies we've been voting for tonight would encourage a company to use the narrative route. It may be the highest. A financial minister did not realize how many companies in Iceland have lost 75% of their income or more. You see, there's a lot of them, tops. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u10	What's the suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u11	That's how they are, and that's why it's a clear motivation. 75% is no protection. This is a clear catalyst because this way helps companies more than the partial improvement process. [[The president calls.]] Was that the point? [[Up front.]] I thought the purpose was to secure the recruitment relationship rather than push companies into groups information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u12	A respectable president. It's ridiculous to say that, says the highest. Secretary of the budget, that this bill prompts lay-off because there are about 75% recession conditions. I wanted to point out that in a report on the partial improvement process, it was not fully guaranteed that companies that were stopping, companies who have the ability to continue paying, do not take advantage of the route. Still, they would have chosen to take advantage of that route. This bill does not close any shooting, and, in fact,, companies are given four dates to aim this 75% of their income loss in such a way that it is suitable for most companies who are affected by income loss right now. However, there is no requirement for companies to have a business problem. [[The president calls.]] It's certainly an incentive for resignation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u13	A respectable president. On this occasion, I'd like to include it in my discussion that I'm very concerned that the decision that comes with the adjustment of the majority of the sector is to squeeze into the recycling process for six months after the resignation has become active, slows down the recycling process, which hopefully will take place and has to take place in modern employment. I think we're a little bit, like a coon. A senator named Hanna Katrín Friðriksson said earlier in another context, shooting an ant with a cannon. We're putting too much emphasis on setting up fences when all the more of the business is trying to do its best and survive. We are busy putting fences around the very black sheep all over, no matter whether it is in the corporate environment or individuals that cheat out of the improving system. It's everywhere. [[The president calls.]] Now we are to focus on defending the recruitment relationships and the current jobs. I'm afraid to suggest to companies that it is not permitted to reimburse parties in the correct working order at the same rate as before, that it is dangerous in view of the fact that, fortunately, there were a very large number of over payments in terms of previous labour agreements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-111.u14	The president's request is still in good standing because time measurements are severely down. They were not trying to take a talk out of trouble. On the contrary, he received a generous amount.
