ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u1	To answer, financial and economic ministers, foreign and development co-work ministers, Environment and Resource Ministers and Justice Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u2	President. Corruption is a predator. Depravity is rare at the expense of everyone else. Depravity is a hidden tax that costs more than a valuable tax. But while a valuable tax is used to build the wood of the country, corruption is used to build blocks of power. That's why Iceland is a member of GRECO organization against corruption. That is why two years ago, the prime minister has introduced or begun to introduce most of the corruption defenses proposed by GRECO: Green is finished. [[A senator shows a sheet of paper.]] Yellow is on the move. Red hasn't started yet. The Minister of Justice also received this list of corrupt defenses two years ago. Her list of law enforcement. And GRECO's report on law enforcement says: Iceland must limit political corruption, political interference. And this is the list of Minister of Justice: Red is not on the move. Yellow has just begun. Depravity is understandable because people in power can use public power to build their power blocks. That's how it works. But that is at the expense of everyone else. So corruption is very undesirable. She's covered with taxes. It makes us poorer. She's exaggerating the state of justice. It's making us less confident. It rewards obedience rather than talent. It's making us look bad. It takes a minister nothing to use the public to build his own power pads until it costs the trust of voters. [[The president calls.]] I don't trust the Minister to work on the limitation of law enforcement corruption with such a red list. I'm asking a minister, "Why is her list so red?"
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u3	A respectable president. Hv. A senator can right here some list that he has specially colored but would more closely refer to the words of a specialist in GRECO and one of the authors of this report. He says, with President's permission: You could say it's all in progress. The suggestions have not been submitted, but we conclude that a minister of judicial matters recently began a very extensive reorganization of the police and other established law enforcement agencies. There is also a review. I understand that our proposal to ensure that no political interference by law will be introduced through these two processes. This is what the expert wrote. A senator points in. And he goes on to say that he is hopeful when he publishes his next report, as if it were a promotion. We have months to complete as suggested at the beginning and the state have to complete the follow-up of this report. He puts high hopes in it and thinks it will be 18 months later, and these comments will have been made. He also says that he is happy to see this process, and he adds, of course, that it is not possible to make direct comparisons with other countries. But what has been done, and what is being pointed out in these comments that we are trying to meet? We work hard to see what it is in our system that we can do better to respond to the comments presented there. It's not least internal cooperation and the appearance of the police as a unit more than ever, and I don't know any better than I've established a police force. We're legalizing it with a bill to legalize the law that was running its course and is going before the government, and before the Senate before a year's convention, to legalize a council of police consultation and coordination with all the police in the country with a local district attorney and under the leadership of the state police officer. Then there is the trust in the leadership of a governor who is pointed out to be in GRECO's comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u4	President. Well, I hope it happens, but there's 18 months before the next election, and there's a chance. I want to be able to trust the Minister of Justice in this case, Mr. President, I want this fixed. It is expensive, making us poorer, inferior, and less confident about having corruption. When it comes to such things and you see how the art is - and this is no comparison between countries, this is a list of prime ministers, who have nearly one third finished of their assignments, one third off, and one project not started, and then a list of Justice Ministers, and that's 18 months ahead of the next election. Doesn't the Minister of Justice think he can finish this before the next election? If that happens, I'll trust the Minister of Justice. Does Minister of Justice believe that she can speed up her work so that she is ready for the next election?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u5	The minister should be addressed as the supreme minister. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u6	A respectable president. There's a lot of things in this that I think they're going to be fulfilled by new laws but they're going to put in a bill about it before the year, as I mentioned in the previous answer. The police law, in what we're changing, is not only a review of police organization and State Marshal's activities but also a police operation, an investigation of suspected criminal conduct. And I've reiterated it with changes that do not require legal changes, and in my conversations with the police council and all the police authorities, and I strongly emphasize that jobs in the police are advertised. They've been working on it within the police and the National Guard to fulfill the recommendations that are specifically focused on them and that we've run to the end. So I think things will be done in the next few months, but there may be some comments there requiring more political discussion, and it is important to be present on the law when the bill comes before the council. [[The president calls.]] But I think we've taken many steps to answer this question, and it's not right to compare these two departments with one another. A senator did.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u7	Mr. President. How sad it was to observe the events at Landakoti, as well as my Witnesses with the deepest sympathy! It is very important that further investigation is made. However, a preliminary report shows that we have serious health problems. It's a fault we're in here, we're responsible and we have to take action. Surely, we are heartily agree that the report highlights the need for more nurses and better conditions for aging cures and a new national hospital, which is finally in good spiritual condition after many years of inactivity and apathy. It is not enough, however, to build a hospital and a nursing home. They also need to be expelled and humanized. The human problem in the Icelandic health system is a huge challenge and calls for a long - term plan to improve the quality of health - care professions. In the United States, we have spoken of a campaign against public - service subsidiary in order to increase the number of jobs in a commercial crisis and to improve health and important services to people. Of these ideas, the minister has said, with permission: There is one of the worst ideas I've heard, that now there is reason to increase the number of public jobs, and now it is simply necessary to run faster and to do better. So I'd like to ask you, is it the highest? Secretary of finance still has that opinion? Or is he willing to respond to our call in the United States for a major campaign against public services subsidiary? Is it really not possible to achieve a broad degree of solidarity over the International Parliament that it is necessary to attack subspecies in health and aging to ensure that society's oldest and weakest citizens better living conditions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u8	Mr. President. I can say with what. A senator with regard to the seriousness of this incident at Landakoti. But I'm waiting for a surgeon to decide what they think went wrong there. I don't think it's in general a good methodology that those who are personally responsible for business talked about it and not the last one about what was going on. But we'll see about that. I don't think it's the main thing here. This is a case of aging services in the general part of the country. Hv. A senator asks, and I really think he's suggesting that the only thing that needs to be done is to attack the design problem. I don't see it that way. My comments to the Union's ideologies that we should get out of the crisis by increasing the number of public activity are about the need to be aware of the root causes of the problem. The root of the problem we are facing today is a collapse in the private sector. This is the root cause of the problem. We need to attack them by stimulating, creating, ensuring that we can resist and increase their land production. If that fails, we can't afford to carry out the public service we have today, let alone extending the cake on that side. We won't be able to afford it. We are doing this with an angle of 300 billion this year, and we will do it again next year. If the ideologies are just to add to the problem, I don't think men can see the forest for the trees. I'm going to tell you about nursing homes in general that I think there's a lot more to do and a much more drastic review than just attacking the design problem. We need to jump this system up. We need to recognize that the nation is getting older. We must recognize that the task for us as a nation is growing. We need to discuss from increasing the pension age to the way we are going to finance and run these resources to the future, creating a much more varied way for people who are getting older to serve. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u9	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister of finance is able to mislead the discussion. The union has stressed both, creating jobs in the private sector and the necessary jobs in public service. But that's not all we have to do, hiring people into the public system. V.E.G. A minister has done business himself over the years and must know that there is something to build and something else to do. It is a built - in limp in the medical and nursing systems. There are other bloody wastes besides pursuing financial expenditure. It is waste to distribute money in an unpredictable way, as was done, e.g. correction to the homes It is a waste to let a trusted minister, such as the National Court, cost tens of millions. However, it is also a waste to obtain an abundance of money that is important to health - care systems in a way that puts the cost elsewhere. I'm gonna ask you again, is it the highest? A minister willing to accompany us in the correction of a child's care?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u10	A respectable president. I believe this is getting ahead of us from the wrong end of the world. I like it. A senator puts emphasis on the fact that all of this will be public employees. To me, that's just a sidebar. I thus see that there is a right that people have according to the insurance system we're building for service. I can see bigger, more powerful, that's why more private institutions can hire people to do this. I can say that this is a growing problem. I think there's more business in this, and the government is just talking about the need for more space and money behind it. It has been a tremendous challenge for us as a nation to leave these older nursing homes, where men had two and three in space, to be isolated. This has been an enormous challenge and has cost a great deal of money. But I feel that there is a much deeper need to go down to the very root of the system and to define it again and to look at it from those who are supposed to accept the ministry, that money will follow people, and thus the services will develop. [[The president calls.]] That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u11	A respectable president. As soon as I want to commend our disease - control trinkets, I would like to use the opportunity to commend the people and commend the people. We have often been counted among those who have been affected by oppositional disorders over the years, but we have done wonders to follow instructions, were able to fulfill a mask very fast, and, above all, learned to wait in line; and it would have been necessary to tell me several times that we Icelanders had to learn so quickly, which we are doing. We see that society is doing what it takes to get through this temporary situation, especially in the light of news of vaccinees. However, I would like to draw out that at the government press conferences in the beginning, it was found that the game was being made up of very important actions, actions that were supposed to cost 230 billion. Since then, it has been found that this is about 85 billion, and the result is the partial improvement, which was very well implemented and good, followed by unemployment or unemployment. Thus, we are not seeing the energy or the extra financial resources go into the economy, and there are other numbers that have just been drawn out. We've been getting tips, including from women who have been interviewed. Hildur Valgeirsdóttur is a book, and it has shown that cutthroats, communities, do not fall under this sector strength. We see small companies in travel services making it appear that the least available resources are available to them. It is repeatedly pointed out. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would agree to the concern that we are not turning the money into areas where they really need it. We tried. I would rather see that governments try to offer suggestions, although they contain mistakes. We'll see, for example. that the bridge loans aren't turning themselves into society, into the companies. I agree with the Minister that we need to run faster. [[The president calls.]] We need to recognize that it is the private sector that fell, and we also need to meet the fall that has taken place within the private sector. [[The president calls.]] That's why I have a measure of concern, a respectable president, because money is not being returned to the small companies and to the monotonies, asking if it can't be corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u12	A respectable president. It is difficult to reach a full perspective on the effectiveness of all resources in such a short period of time. I want, for example. Regarding the final concentration, it may be that certain forms of society did not fall there, but the volume of income and the volume of vigour that we now have are involved. I call attention to the fact that both lock concentrations and drop-down levels have certain limits on the cost of operating that are being met with the strengths. They make sure that companies have one to five employees. It's the multiple we use to calculate the grants, which shows that we are reaching out specifically to small and medium-sized companies. The higher the proportion of the enterprises, the lower the strength will be proportionate. On the other hand, I have to point out that both the partial improved process and other measures, such as the state's responsibilities in support loans, can be of benefit here. All benefited from the continuation of the due date, which was a general option that all could take advantage of. It was also true of the entire financial system's operations, which in general provided pay time and space. That has even been true. has been shown to have saved what many predicted would happen in the early part of the year, that the companies had a lack of money, and that we would see mass losses. There were people who foretold this in 2020. We haven't seen it work, not at all. I think, on the contrary, public action and intervention of the financial system, including By means of the actions of the Federal Bank, which allowed much more space for the financial system, we have been through this tremendously difficult time with less events than many predicted. [[The president calls.]] The loss of income is followed, and we are struggling now, and we will bring the bills soon to answer how we want to maintain support in the next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u13	A respectable president. Yes, there was an increase in financial markets, but we also see that the main budget that went into circulation was to strengthen more than the average man, i.e. to strengthen the housing market. The question can be wondered, and this has been done by economists, whether it was the right priorities. But okay. I'm glad the Secretary of finance has just got the focus on the corporate income drop. That's extremely important. It is primarily because of the administrative activities that an enterprise has had to close, especially these small companies that have to do with mind and hand. We're talking about artists, hairdressers, massagers, goal coaches, and others who have had to close. It is important that we meet them. I remind people in the field to point out that governments and governments are not working. I'd like to underscore that we've already said, "Let's take a big step now. " But we have also supported the government in changing matters to meet the people as well as to call on the people, and especially to help and support them. [[The president calls.]] And I want to encourage the highest. A minister to direct it to the council to change what needs to be changed so that the people and the companies can survive the short remaining time of this virus. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u14	A respectable president. I think it's wrong our actions aren't working. We can see that, for example. of how the funds have been distributed. Who's taking advantage of paybacks? Who have drawn strength? These are the articles that are characteristic of a loss of income, e.g. Tourism service. We are especially able to reach just where the largest income loss has occurred. I have to say that there is a number of surprises when people enter the discussion right now and say that the money doesn't meet where they're supposed to be going. It is not good for homes to be refinanced. I don't understand where men are going. Is that what they say was that the bat shouldn't have dropped interest? Is it true that there has been some expense in the state's financial supply of the home? I don't quite understand where people are going. I view this as a tremendously positive step, and that is also true. Because we removed a stamp charge for the reimbursement of the mortgage not long ago, tremendously positive, that the home was able to use just a lower growth environment to reduce the burden of payment, the same home that so many people in the other word express concern that they cannot make ends meet. [[The president calls.]] These are positive things that are going on there, and we need to be careful not to go too far in directing it through the wealth of every budget in the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u15	A respectable president. December supplementation according to VR contracts is 94,000 k. Before 2020, for full - time service. Unemployment rate at about 85,000, while older citizens and disability receive about 45,000 bucks. Senators get about 185,000 bucks. payback for Christmas. Of the 94,000. to provide an average of 40% tax rate for VR partners, which means they will be paid about 56,000 K. of the 95,000. Of the 185,000. which the senators receive from taxing at 110,000 dollars. December's abduction of the microbubble pensioner is 45,000. 30,000 k. by tax. But it is then reduced by a large group of pensioners, not by members of our council or workers. How strange it is that sick people and older citizens are immersed in the shrink pit! The government sets up the discrimination glasses and the unbridled inadequacy with chain-reaching impairments before Christmas, only to cut down December because of the pension fund to zero. Nothing. We get a Christmas bonus taxed, but in sick people and older citizens, it's taxed and chain-based to nothing, not a crown. How does such a tax policy fit into the lndependence issue? First there's taxes, then there's a chain-based tax to zero or a 100% tax. It's under the roof. Is this fair to the minister of finance? If so, why? If not, he's ready to fight for the 45,000 bucks. A Christmas bonus that seniors and disabilityrs get will be tax and deficient by the next month? IRS and decrepitable 45,000.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u16	A respectable president. We often discuss these limitations in the social security system from different angles of view. My suggestion in this discussion is generally the same, that these rules are to ensure that the weight of the ratio remains limited to those who are most in need. We can then discuss whether the whole system would be more reasonable. Hv. A senator asks what I generally think from a political perspective on such tax and restrictions. I'm thinking that we should help people self-help them, that there's too much impairment in people's will to save themselves, e.g. to take extra income with work to reduce the need for other support. If the impairment rules are too cruel, I think they'll be discouraging. I think it may be quite true that when we're dancing with the limit of this range that we've been living from 38.5% to 40% and even up to 45%, and then we've had examples of special support parties, such as the abbreviations that were in the short run against a cent, I think we're offering home the risk of a particular farm. Who has not heard examples of people who try to get a job so that their income is not given out so that it will not affect the rights of the system? That is a fact we must recognize and face. This is a special question for the Christmas bonus. In order to answer that question, we just need to decide how much money we will spend on a special December and to review how it will do so. But my opinion is still that it is, of course, best to make the most of it for those who have been remembered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u17	A respectable president. Those answers are amazing. The Christmas bonus is said to be impaired so that those who receive it at least may not receive it but those who receive it most of the time. It doesn't make sense. What does the Christmas bonus do? The pension fund. And what do they do with the pension fund? It's a chain reaction. Who's going to get the worst out of this? The lowest-payers, women. How could you possibly justify making a Christmas bonus at 45,000 bucks? and tax down to 30,000, but then take it and say it's normal? Is it not, then, much more honest to say, "You don't get it? We're not gonna give you the Christmas bonus. It's ridiculous to explode in the shrink pit and be taxed in many ways because of the same income, a pension fund. I can't believe it's the highest. Secretary of the budget doesn't see it doesn't work out. There's a multi-counter the same money to get from the least of those who have Christmas bonus. [[The president calls.]] Can't we even give them their Christmas bonus?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u18	A respectable president. If we were to try to get this out of a simple question, What are the characteristics of those who receive such a Christmas bonus, December supplement, or unsatisfactory? What are the characteristics of that group? Is it not true that they do not have other income currents to support themselves? And what is the identity of the missing group? A senator calls the sloth, all the extra money? What are the characteristics of the group, if we look only to those who see the least out of the way? Is it not true that they are different from the others by having other income currents? That's the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest question on this occasion. The secretary of finance into the development of the so - called transport contract of the capital and the official part of society in connection with the transport contract adopted during the last council and has now been established. An extension party published in connection with an approved Community law, says by permission of presidents: It is essential to keep in mind that the overall meeting will therefore have to work out so that the objective of the agreement will be met. This was an attempt to frame the possibility that certain aspects of the transport covenant could not be selected and that they could be brought about, but to get in the way of others, the overall vision would have to come true. There have been reports that there has been a mischieving tournament at the Bourgway and Smokeins Road conventions, and the latest reports are that there has been a mismatch on the Eagle Road. It was reported in these last days. In this context, the view that the transportation problem is upset and at its height has been developed. The minister of finance spoke in this way, not long ago, in discussions that, of course, the whole of the covenant had to be looked forward and people were not choosing the interests of each member of the community but the objective of this overall vision. I would like to ask the highest. A minister may consider it to be that in this light, a situation might arise that the transportation situation is in a state of confusion and if not, what needs to be done, in order to prevent certain factors, in particular in terms of root structure, cannot be achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u20	A respectable president. It is first related that recently the job of the executives of this company was advertised and I know only that the process is now. Let's hope this comes to a conclusion in the next few weeks. Hv. A senator asked if these two examples, such as Bugit and Smokejanes, and then the Eaglenes Road and his connection to the road system in Reykjavík, were now in the process of causing complete confusion. I think that might be too much to say. I think, however, this is an example of a case that needs a good landing. Regarding Eaglenes Way, I have understood that Kópavogsville and Reykjavíkurborg are along with the Road of Vega. It is hard to say that if these members together decide on the matter, they can upset the capital contract. What matters to me is that we at the council, who take the transport programme through and finance it, see that the goals we are trying to achieve are achieved by the construction and planning of human operations in the capital area. What we are especially looking at is traffic flows and traffic traffic problems that keep the speeds growing. There are too many people who live here in the capital area. They have been trapped in traffic knots, far too long at certain times of the day, on their way to and from work. We want to overcome this with increased funds and agreements in the capital area, as soon as public transportation, footpaths, and so on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. Of course, I have a certain understanding that this is difficult for the highest. Ministers to walk between the trunk and the head of the newly formed partner before hiring the Commission. But it's still that I feel that the first two cases involved with the founding structure are in an upset state. In a fine interview that Andrés Magnússon, a journalist in the morning newspaper, interviewed Jón Gunnarsson, former secretary of transportation, and current member of the Independence Party, says, so I'll be able to quote at the interview: ◯ The best solution is being rejected. This is a phrase that seems to be rolling through all communications between Vega and Reykjavíkurburg and rural society in the capital area in terms of root structure. Hence, the question must be perplexing at this point: What does it take to make the transportation business really upset?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u22	A respectable president. I think that one of the things that can be of great importance in this process is that man can go forward and more carefully over calculating the national interest of these projects, this project. Of course, we have noted that there have been differences of viewpoint as to what basis should be proposed when calculating the national benefit of these enormous investments. We're talking about investments that are about In half the road system and in half the effort to pay more for public transportation. There have been indications from experienced people in this field, both engineers and economists, that men should look more closely at the basis that has been set in calculating the national interest of projects. These are, of course, aspects that we have an obligation to pay attention and to make sure that we are putting our money to good use and achieve the goals we are reaching. [[The president calls.]] It's these things, much rather than some single pass, that I believe can make all of them new.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u23	The arrangement has been agreed on. From the top. Ministers of every class have the right to direct questions to the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u24	A respectable president. We'll talk about disease prevention measures for Covid-19 with special emphasis on transmissible infectious processes as methodology or part of methodology. This epidemic, which began at the end of February, led us right away to a certain approach that soon became special for Iceland. By the middle of the March months, we had managed with the help of Icelandic genetic analysis to multiply the sample, so it was good to identify the cases that arrived in the country. The methodology then developed was to take very much samples both in those with symptoms but also in asymptomatic individuals to identify the spread of the epidemic in the community, to identify asymptomatic social diseases that could maintain the epidemic and increase the spread of the epidemic. A strong infectious group was also immediately established, and all those who had been in contact with infected individuals were immediately infested for a 14 - day environment. Thus, our approach from the start, as well as the general hygienic measures and distance limits, number one to take a lot of samples, number two to use more aggressive infectious skins, and number three to apply contagion for those who were least suspected of having been in close proximity to infected persons. At that time or the first wave, over 60,000 samples were taken, and more than 20,000 people were infected. Of those diagnosed at that time, nearly 60% were infected and therefore did not continue to spread the infectious virus, which was clearly one of the main reasons for the rapid and successful recovery of this first wave; from the beginning of May, only a single infection was identified, as everyone remembers. When the wave we are dealing with now began to appear at the end of July, sometimes called a different wave, but sometimes a different wave, we benefited from the experience that had been created during the first wave, and this approach was maintained at first. In addition, screening was started on the border that began in mid - June. By mid - August, this screening was doubled by five days apart, where a person had been infected despite a negative sample when he arrived in the country. Since then, 72 subjects have been diagnosed with the virus at screening two despite a negative sample at arriving. Thus, the methodology in this wave has been the same as in the first wave, but we have added to the close of a border by twice the sample, and a five - day space apart, as people know. This wave today has been similar to the one where the pressures on health care have been far more intense in this wave. A total of 40 patients were enrolled in the hospital during the first wave, but this has been 70. The precise explanation is unclear, possibly because older age groups have been infected in the second wave, although the number of subjects in ICUs has been higher in the first. Still, this analysis has been a powerful tool for dealing with the wave. As there have continued to be a 60% outbreak of contagion, it is evident that contagion and contagion have prevented much more contaminating in the community. In neighboring lands, infectious guides have shown that approximately One third of them are infected in families and in households, one third at work clubs, and one third at parties, dinner parties, bars, and other meetings, and usually where people do not respect distances. There is no reason to believe that this is different in this country, but yet all numbers are lower, so that group-infested error of this overall picture. For example, we are talking about or over 50 workplaces where small clusters have become, or possibly, four to six in each group. Otherwise, cross-infections in this country may have been used to find individuals who have been close to those who have been infected and who have been infected with them. In this way they have been able to prevent their transmission, as previously said, 60% of intelligence cases since the beginning have been in an environment. I hope now that the end of this epidemic is behind us, but we are by no means free of the virus. The danger is obvious. If we let go of too much weight, then the epidemic will come back in full force. That conclusion can be drawn from our own experience as well as from the experience of other nations. So it is important that we continue to be very careful. Respect distances with other people, be generally diseased, stay away from home, work away from home if possible, and high-risk groups display special caution. While good news about the development of vaccines provides a basis for optimism, it is advisable to prepare for the fact that the virus will significantly affect our lives and society in the months ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister will open it to this discussion. First of all, it is impossible to point out honestly how humble the title of the discussion is, but it is as it goes, all of us wish that we will achieve extraordinary success in fighting this virus, but humility is not for us to go on this. However, I would like to approach this matter a little, since the results were discussed here on the basis of cross-contamination, and so on. During my last discussion, where there was a peak. In this regard, a minister called out the highest minister. Minister on what were the solutions of the individual and what were the solutions of the Central Party? That, in fact, is the case. To answer that I stand here and the Central Party as such do not have the same information as the local authorities when it comes to evaluating which routes are most reasonable at one time. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. A minister of whether it is possible to consider with regard to the minister's use of all the available data, all analyses, all findings, everything that the competent authorities are working on from day to day, will be made public in order to include Congress members actually have a chance to understand the situation, to participate in upbuilding discussions, and so forth. I think it matters. In view of this great and good infectious process, I come to the viewpoint of my second talk, as to what information is involved in the fact that schools are now more and less closed. How many children under a certain age have actually been infected? Today, families are being entombed all over the country, based on the fact that young children have been exposed to disease. Is there any statistical evidence that young children are becoming infected?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First, regarding this methodology, i.e. The question is, Has transmission been applied in other countries with similar results? Because of what? A senator speaks of the fact that we are making ourselves a little wide in the review of the discussion; then, in that sense, we are not used anywhere in the manner that is being done here, i.e. with the cooperation of health care professionals and the police. What is also unusual is how early in the epidemic of infectious agents, but we began to catch infection with the first reported incident. In the past, countries and many countries have been able to use infectious means when the epidemic has passed, which is, in the opinion of a psychiatrist, too late, so that is my answer. Hv. A senator puts it that schools are more and less closed, but that's simply not right because high school is working. There have been some compartments in the upper class, and there are also certain compartments in high school. But we want to make sure that school is going on as hard as possible, and they're supposed to be in the middle school and at the youngest level of high school. Yes, we've seen and had evidence of it, but I don't have any data on it under this discussion, that we see more examples of infection in the school environment than we saw in the first wave. These reports have been received in the media and have been discussed there, and this has actually led to large - scale exposure to young people. A senator points out. However, with relatively new compartments, we should not need to see that whole rivers need to be infected, as we saw earlier in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I would like to reiterate my question from my first talk on whether it's the highest. A minister sees that he uses himself to open up the data that are underlying to help us find the point. V.E.G. Just before, a minister admitted that she did not have sufficient data to give to infected children. I understand that ministers don't have all the statistics in their heads, so to speak. So I reiterate the question: Especially the highest. A minister suggests that access to available data is possible? Which is huge and would add all the discussion, especially when it is now moving into the political arena, so to speak, at least Sounds like it's the evolution. Then, in addition to this, I want to say that during the past few days, all sports is really limited far more than in the countries around us. Sports are playing, physical sports, such as basketball, in the countries around us, and even in the professional departments. Is it possible that this is where we are going too far in terms of limitations? Is there any evidence that there is a major transmission risk? I can tell myself that I am deeply concerned about my mental and physical health, especially in the younger part of the nation, and then, of course, sports is a part of the older ones' entertainment. I reiterate the question, is the highest. A minister willing to use himself to open up the data that are underlying to improve the discussion? What is her view of whether too far is going if we compare ourselves with the countries around us regarding the limitations of competitive sports?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u28	A respectable president. First, about the importance of sports. Then I will first speak of it according to the common purpose of my health, because of it. A senator touches only on this as well, the importance of sports in life and daily health of children and young people. I agree with what. A senator there and at first class introduced and actually went into effect yesterday, though based on specific compartments, he or she is authorized by young sports. I have to say it in general, as an answer to a question why. A senator as to whether we are going too far, that this is our natural subject every day: Are we going too far, or are we going too short? We always have evidence that we are going too far by interfering with some activity, but some believe that we are going too far the other way. Our objective is to evaluate this on the basis of data and information and information in general about the behavior of an epidemic, but no less like the knowledge we are applying to as the knowledge progresses towards Covid-19, a new virus, and we have known it for the months it has been on the score. That's what I have to say about questions. The head of Congress on data, that in current and current disease prevention laws, there is very considerable authority on how to monitor the spread of the epidemic and that is spoken of in the legislation. Of course, building such data and working on them is part of the project. However, I have been a spokesman for the general process of recycling data, i.e. Number, total figures, should be close - cut, and should be the most broad spectrum of transparency. In fact, I have taken the initiative myself. The administrative and monitoring committee has received the evidence that Páll Hreinsson has been given to evaluate for his share the legitimateness of the measures that have been undertaken so far, because I believe it is as important as anything can be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u29	V.E.G. President. I don't think there's any doubt that we've been extremely successful in transmitting infectious diseases. We lived so well that we had a huge business, an international company, to assist, and the nation has been very good together. However, when we had this trolley over us nine months ago or so, we were all told that it was a virus that had come to be right down there until a vaccine came, it would come in waves. At the same time, it was known that the danger was for a very distinct group. I wondered who was in the discussion that these huge, burdensome, and general limitations in dealing with the virus were going to be on people for as long as they needed, or until a vaccine came, or whether they thought there was some limit to whether we would always go on those restrictions as soon as a new wave came, etc. and a little less. Were there any boundaries? At the same time, I would like to know, because they knew how this was settled with certain groups and that it would come back, whether there were any ideas or actions in the lake to focus on these groups, especially to protect them, instead of going into very general and stressful operations. Because there must be some limit on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u30	A respectable president. First of the experiences we've been up to in the fight with Covid-19. Hv. A senator says that we have known at the beginning when the virus got to land at the end of February that it would be recommended only by vaccinations. It's a few simple but understandable when you look back at the memory that it was so in the first place that we could have expected the virus to take 10◯12 weeks, and then it would just have been behind it. So when we started wrestling with the virus, and I think everybody remembers it, we believed we were going to turn back together and we'd drive through it, and then in the summer it would all be back as usual. Then, as this has taken place, we have come to realize more and more clearly that it takes longer and that the vaccine is an essential part of the recovery of the virus. Now we see the end of this wrestling, we don't know exactly, but most likely, and I think it's totally responsible to say that, the vaccine should be available in 2021. But it is also quite clear that it will come to us in small steps, so we will not have a vaccine to vaccinate the entire nation from day one. So we need to focus on the procedures and changes in the steps we take in the course of vaccination. So it is too much to expect that we can predict now the limitations of the next month and the loss. But we're working on securing more confidence, and I can go over it in later answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u31	V.E.G. President. Of course, I can't expect us to see things in the future. I'm just thinking about it, because I can quite see the effect this very burdensome and great limitations have on society, and even for a long time. That is why it is important to me to know whether the government, the minister, and the district authorities have discussed it in some way: Wait, is this something that we can still continue to make into the infinite, therefore, or is there any limit to it? Is there any time when we say, "Hey, we're just gonna have to relax these limits?" This may result in further transmission of infection and further illness and even death. Or we can say: Well, we will do this until everyone has brought a vaccine. Period. - We can't. That's just what I'm saying. We cannot do so, and we must somehow begin to answer this, or we will discuss this in some way: Is there a limit?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u32	A respectable president. Now, we enjoy that position in Iceland, not only seeing the extraordinary success of our actions, which are certainly due in part to the government of Disease Control and to the decisions made, but also because our community is small, there are short channels. We're an informed community, we're an island. We have many other important things. Above all, we are in the position that over 75% of the people agree with what we are doing. And there is a much higher number than we can see in the countries around us. So I believe the Icelandic community is ready to finish the fight with honor against Covid-19, as we have so far, until we can control its breakdown with vaccinees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u33	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for this report. Unsure or biting conditions and the worst places for each individual, not to mention an entire nation. It's the virus that creates this uncertainty of all of us. A respectable president. If anyone knew exactly how to deal with the problem, we would not be in this discussion. Everything you do and are told to endure the discussion and exchange of thoughts about what you do is natural. This is especially true in our day - to - day life when it comes to the application and counsel of the best people we can apply. Although my opinions may not always fall into the counsel of the trident, I have nothing better to offer myself. There have been rains and showers in what has been done. That is normal, though, when uncertainty is such, and in reality, when you wake up in the morning, you do not know what the day is all about. A respectable president. My right also involves respecting the right of others to health and health. Actually, it is my duty to respect the rights of each person in this regard. We're a community that needs to be stuck together, and that's where the interest of the whole party goes beyond my own. Therefore, I have supported the procedures proposed by the Minister and the government. I've supported the forwarders, the police, the infectious teams, the nurses and those who care for the victims of the virus. A respectable president. In view of our uncertainty and lack of knowledge, it is unfair for me to ask the minister, yet I would like to know how much. A minister sees the immediate future, when the borders of the land are opened, how our daily lives can return to normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u34	A respectable president. As someone said, I probably wouldn't be here if I could answer what the future will look like. But I can still say it to him. A senator that it really opened up a new chapter when news was received from more than one company that had developed a vaccine against Covid-19 successfully. Then we are in the section of the struggle that we can see the end of it, that we see the light beyond the tunnel. What will happen in the near future? I notice that in the countries around us, there are differences in what governments and scientists say about the vaccine. When will it be, and when can we begin to expect that it will have considerable influence? All I can assure the Senate is that we are very well versed in access to the latest and best vaccines. We've already made sure of over 200,000 doses when they're ready and we're on our way with a contract with three or four other companies. But that does not mean that all these 200,000 doses will come to the country at the same time. We know, and we've arranged for some sort of priorities, since we have our healthcare professional working at the Covid department, in the intensive care unit, etc., and older people would obviously enjoy priorities. Then we would have to leave decompositions in the hands of the changes in the risk of transmission of infectious diseases that we would see by step-by-step entry of the vaccines. A respectable president. I'd keep and hope we could get vaccinated for my next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u35	A respectable president. I thank the Minister's answer. This has seen many experiences in his long life; volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, and the global scourge that now strikes, as many others have experienced. I wondered, and that is naturally another unfair question to the minister, the situation where our best people now live, the health professionals, the police and the nurses, and those who try to infect us: How can we as a nation, and we as the General, and you as ministers, when these things are done, prepare us to give more leeway in e.g. In order for us to be a little better equipped for the next disaster, the health system, in the law enforcement department? And it will come.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u36	A respectable president. As it has been observed in my introduction earlier, it lies quite ahead, and we have been told that one of the bottlenecks in our system is the diagnostic capacity. We didn't have enough diagnostic ability, i.e. Official agencies, to cope with the first wave, and we had the help of Icelandic genetics. The first step in wrestling was that we had knowledge of the spread of the virus in the community of those who were asymptomatic. That was the perfect key. We've started building a new treatment core at Ring Lane. It is a big deal to move the situation and housing into today's modern - day health - care facility. That's a huge deal. But we need to keep building both design, status, knowledge, science, and research, etc. But even though it is slow and delicate, it has done quite well in this assault on the virus.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u37	Mr. President. Yes, the scientific community has done a complete fortitude of infectious razors in this country, but also the entire population who responded to the Covid tracer's call and in a randomised takeout so that their journeys and hence the virus could be traced. They are to be commended. I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Ministers into vaccinations as they have received reports that vaccines may be in the near future. The discovery of potential vaccines by scientists to prevent further human losses and entire communities due to the virus epidemic is likely to be the best news of this year and of the decade. Now the reports from outside Europe, where we have our main communications, that national leaders are considering the obligation of citizens to immunisation against Covid-19, otherwise the lack of herd resistance in the countries. I've heard the highest. A health minister would mention that such an option is out of our reach. Tells you the highest. Health Ministers that such an approach could possibly affect the possibility of Iceland's travel on countries where vaccination duties will be established? Then I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: Why is it simply not a duty to oblige all tourists to have double screening on the border instead of a so-called contagion for 14 days that no one can observe, no authority? Now that the government has also decided to pay from our joint funds for this screening, is that so burdensome? When people choose to arrive in Iceland, they simply have to subject themselves to double screening. We see the damage already spread. I don't quite understand why this simple rule can't be established. Now statistics were only received in the week that three infections had been found during the second screening. I want so much to contain the virus, but I'm afraid we can't get it out of this self-centered contingency that nobody's watching. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u38	A respectable president. First of all, down payment on a border is equivalent to the cost, which is around 10,000 dollars. depending on whether or not people were doing a syncording, or before the change, in some cases, the ticket, the payment for paying a low-cost airline to fly from Europe to Cheflavík. It is the evaluation of those on the border that there is economic evidence that people do not want to be screened and shown because they simply look at these crowns. For myself, I find the argument worth listening to. I can hear it. A senator tells us that we are thereby paying off this from the treasure of the Kingdom. That's right. However, when we started to cover the cost of this project, we assumed that 2,000, 3,000, or 4,000 people a day would pass through the airport, and we assumed that we would set up these equipment on the border for that group, and that the payment would cover the expenses that the government funds were making. Now that's the way we're talking about maybe 300 people a day. It is clear that we have long since come to this point, so we are actually paying to do a double screening on the border, which is a special procedure, as indicated by any case. A senator, produce very good results. Regarding the obligation to have a vaccine, it has been our ideologies in Iceland, when we're talking about vaccinations in general, that it's part of a social opinion to submit to vaccinations rather than regulations and bans. [[The president calls.]] That's what a surgeon believes, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, yet he reiterates my question: Why not just have two screenings on the border? That was the question. I did not ask why the government decided to pay for the screening. I think there's a benefit in obliging everyone to double screening, and I'd like to get an answer: Why is it still a choice not to be screened on the border? I think it's extremely important, especially because of the consequences of light and are known to us by allowing this choice. I want my second question to include our successful athletes who have been living at home without the possibility of training since the beginning of October here in the capital area, and the country since later in the same month, at the same time as athletes all over the world, both east and west of the ocean, pursue their own sports in the targeted groups that have passed. These are very distinct groups, but they're not changing in and out. At the same time that local sports are allowed to do their sports, the Icelandic athletes are forbidden to meet only to compete for Iceland at international conventions. During the weeks, the situation of our successful athletes continues to weaken. They need to appear with the Icelandic national teams in foreign countries without the opportunity to practice before conventions, without having the privilege of ensuring their abilities and performance. This was done despite both strict national policies, strict rules among sports relationships, and despite the fact that there are always the same groups that meets in certain areas of cleaning. Now it shall be made clear that I support their preventive measures and need, but I also support a moderate degree and that there is some sense of reason in what we are doing and understanding the activity we are limiting in the way we are here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In fact, I just want to go to the top of the question. Minister: Is there any hope for our successful athletes to gather in their limited number?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u40	A respectable president. A moderate and equal order has always been our guide in all the procedures proclaimed here on the land, and I want to assure you. The senator that it is always my desire to take the step of freeing restrictions rather than the other; for that is exactly the case. A senator asks about sports to consider the next steps. Hv. A senator also asks specifically why the decision remains on the border. This is because a psychiatrist calls it to my attention in a memo in which he says: "There are 2.6% who choose to get infected, and we are concerned about this group, that they may pass through ◯ and cause infections. " To reach this group, we have two ways. One way is to obligate everyone to a sample, the other way is to drop down because workers on the border give us information that there is reason to believe that many people refuse to take samples because people cannot afford to pay for it. When I, speaking of moderate measure, am before these two choices, I believe that having agreed with the minister's committee, it is my way of departing. We will likely see very quickly whether we will achieve this approach across the whole group, which we will hopefully do because it is the goal of this operation. This is similar because this approach is more moderate in comparison to the obliging of all. In addition, it has been said that if people were to be forced into a sample against their will, it is difficult to get the authority that would be the basis for it, by police or other workers on the border. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u41	A respectable president. This is an interesting discussion today, as expected. I liked and enjoyed the information meeting of public defenses on Monday, when the ones there were asked to their favorite Covid-related phrases were the very answer to Alma Möller, which we stress and discuss here today. When an outbreak of infection and a full - time display began in this country, Iceland was soon shown to be ideal for research on the virus. Perhaps because of our small size and social trust, it is easier to reach people and, according to the latest numbers of covid.is, more than 200,000 samples have been taken within the country and more than 44,000 people have completed their applications. It is evident, therefore, that a very large part of the nation has been reached in the battle against the land of Covid. Of course, there are some viewpoints that need to be taken into account when it comes to transmitting infection, for example, because of our small size. More important to be careful about the personal protection issues we have previously discussed, as health information is sensitive to personal information. How good it has been, then, that once there has been a question of personal protection, they have been on the table and have been constantly given clear answers to the public. We've also had the infectious barometer. I'd like to come on to that because, hopefully, now that we're seeing the end of the current wave, you don't talk about any last wave anymore, it's just present - when it was being invented, there were some rather unpleasant numbers of non-transmissions. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: When it comes to meeting the epidemic successfully and the use of the app, how significant has the transmissible infectious barometer generally been? Does the minister know how many people have the app or have checked themselves out of the app?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u42	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator, that the infectious tracer has been one of these key tools that have helped us to trace them. Even so, it has been important to make good use of the means to get information to people because it has also been new to do so. The numbers. I don't have the number exactly as it is today, but we know that there are more than tens of thousands who have loaded it down and there are really differenceing about it. But as the case also shows, why? Then a senator comes in a lot of views, and then maybe a special personal protection plan. It is of great importance that they have been taken very well into account in all this process, and the surgeon's office has been in cooperation with Perone Protection in the entire process from the very beginning, when it was being developed the app and how it would be most effective. In fact, the new consent of the individual needs to be made when using the data as to which the person was going. It is never that the data from the apps are accessible to the competent authorities without specifically asking for it in that case, the question arises. So the app has fallen very well into the law that I mentioned earlier in the discussion, which is the authority of a pathologist to monitor the spread of the disease. Of course, this is a very sensitive provision in view of the need to monitor people for disease. It has also been specifically discussed about credit card transactions and the like, but it is really just asking whether the person was at a certain location, not about the purchase or the sum.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u43	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. We got a bit of a good view of this using credit cards when the bar disease came up. Indeed, it is so important for the public to realize that his consumption is not being monitored but is being observed only by people. As a minister came in with the app, if we've been close to someone who's been diagnosed with it, we need to agree that it's new beyond text. But it is the whole world underneath in this epidemic, and it can be said that most of our lives have gone on our side, that there may be more now in other countries that have not been as rigid as we are, they have to do it where the situation is becoming out of control for health care. Of course, health authorities around the world have made some sort of mistake, I think, and I'm sorry about it afterwards, and they're improving their methods and things, which are normal. That's why the virus is very dangerous and we're all learning, just like everyone else. I believe that we did well, and we live in vast numbers in many of the society that has been and are still under intense pressure. The deliverance lies ahead, and all of us would likely like to enjoy it with family and friends. And because it turns into vaccines, I think it's important that we all stand together and continue to watch out and be careful and relax, in more steps than fewer, because I think the way is going is right. We can never make a body like that, that's for sure. But I believe that with the results, we have shown that we are on the right track. I'd like to come to the end because we've put health and life completely in place, to ask the minister about the color code system, whether and when it will be put in use. Be small areas or larger areas, and how will this be presented to the public?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u44	A respectable president. Maybe just a little bit more about the infectious barbering, because I didn't mention it before, that, in fact, it's especially useful to help recall what people normally don't record exactly, i.e. where it went, at any time, etc., the app helps, and the person only fills them in the blanks. With regard to the color code system, it's in progress, and I don't have the exact timing of it. But it has its advantages as a transparency tool for the public and so on, and we know exactly what the situation is, etc. But once again, our community is so small and small that it is usually about the situation of the epidemic from day to day, in every hospital, etc. and it all comes out on the news. We have seen in the public tissues when we are inspecting the state of the surrounding countries, in some places the situation of the epidemic is being maintained according to national parts and domains. This is especially true in the setting where health care is organized according to the third administrative level or the interstellar regime. In fact, it is easier to hold on to numbers and information on such foundations and people have less business in their territory than we do here, where the third - degree service is primarily found here in the capital area. But this is one of the things that have been developing in Iceland, and it's thought to improve perception and to increase transparency in response.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u45	President. Two weeks ago, when I spoke about this case here at the council at the highest. Then the minister of health began my speech by saying that informed discussion is a basis for both the successful and the protection of civil rights during time. It is a basis for trust that needs to be readily available to prevent disease prevention. We have been informed by a health - care professional on the reasons behind their disease - control proposals. Þórólfur is doing their duty. Geologists work to collect information on the negative effects of public health in general. Alma's doing her duty. Police officer's been doing very well, and even took over. Part of making sure that Covid infected can choose spring. He has also informed us of his own mistakes and has learned from them. Víðir're out there doing their duty. The required minister is a two-way minister. First, to ensure disease prevention and minister is to do so. Second, evaluate the negative effects of their actions. This is made clear in the opinion of Páll's Hreinsson son to the prime minister, whom he brought to an open meeting on the Generalist Committee to cope with us. There he, like all other experts who came before the committee, repeated that we should monitor that the minister is working within this framework. Páll put down the box, within him a minister's office and the Senate checkpoint, to monitor that the minister does so. We have returned to the double duty of a minister of the moderate order, and in Páll's opinion we find that a government for the sake of the sake of public interest impairs the freedom or human rights of the citizens - which is absolutely necessary now - must weigh the public interests that recommend the impairment against the interests of the poor. The minister of health must want the nation and the council to have this logical order for the Minister of Health, this total assessment that the minister should legally establish. But I haven't had this total assessment yet. I have not been evaluated for the negative consequences, although I have repeatedly tried it on a administrative and surveillance committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But the majority of the Committee does not wish to accept a Minister's information request. I need that information. How can a minister help you?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. As shown in the matter of what. In this decision chain of decision, which is very effective for this loss and these months, the candidate is made aware of the commitment and responsibility of each member of the host. It is equally clear that in order to take a decision on the individual treatments of a health care professional, the Ministry minister must evaluate whether the procedure is in accordance with the principles of the administrative court, the legal requirement, the equation, the moderate order, etc., human rights contracts, and others and the constitution. On the other hand, that's how it is, because of what it is. A senator asks how we can ensure that this assessment of the ratio on board of administration and monitoring committees, that the evaluation is ongoing, and in some ways we still cannot predict the end of the effect. We cannot measure the effect until all of us, as it were, have gone down to the grave. We are seeing only these weeks and months of new information spinning, for example. about effects on psychiatric disorders and not only effects on psychiatric disorders resulting in anxiety, fear, or trauma, but also, in actual cases, severe psychiatric evaluations associated with the infection of Covid-19. That's why I've started two control teams now. One of them is paying special attention to public health, and I'm talking about diet, sleep, exercise, etc., they all change, and an assessment of the effects on mental health. I'm sorry, while we're still in the middle of a epidemic, we can't tell you what's coming out of it. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to make sure. A senator says I want to keep my eyes on the ball in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u47	President. But there are still plenty of data available. Every single time it's the highest. A minister writes under regulations, or in spring, and when writing under advertisement, that some burdensome measures should be placed in order to stop the spread of the virus, there is information available. Every time she says that this group is no longer working, or that this group can meet with limits, each time it places such a burdensome operation on any group, a person who comes from a disease - care professional needs to know how this will affect the transmission of the virus. What is needed is that we see the other, which must come from the minister. The minister had something in front of him at different time points when she made each decision. That's what I want. That's what I'm asking for. That's what has to be done by law. Then I have to observe that a minister is under their law. It is my duty to do so, but I cannot get that information, although I have tried it repeatedly. It's very simple. Watch this great poster, cool information media, covid.is, who has been crossed on Facebook too. It shows what groups these are. It's a disco ball for dance clubs, and it's blue, and underneath it, it's forbidden, prohibited. Then we can get students to come together with some limitations. There we see this clearly. We will see what is forbidden and how we weigh heavily and which groups are used. We can see the suggestions of a disinfectant, why this is suggested. What is missing is the evaluation to do about how this will affect you. There's food at every point, and I need food. Can a minister help me get it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u48	A respectable president. As mentioned in my first answer, it is always in the writing of regulations, no matter what regulations it is, whether or not it is corrected by the Minister or Ministry and what it is that the Minister is about to put his name under. This review is always done by the Ministry. Sometimes it is made in special notes. Sometimes it's made up at meetings. Sometimes it is done by e - mail. It is done in various ways, and it is not my desire to sit on some information like that. That knows why. A senator, that I have no interest in that. That's why I've taken my own initiative that all the evidence has gone to bed. The Commission and the Commission and the Ministry's Director has met the committee and the Ministry, but it's the two officials that represent this assessment on my behalf. I've wanted it to be with them, and I've been informed that it's been a very useful meeting because he's been telling us exactly how to view it. In case of a moment. A senator is asking for some other evidence, so I don't know what it is. They would have to be earned at any point. administration and monitoring committees back in time. I'm asking why. The senator, whether he feels that there is some reason to believe that the person here has somehow gone beyond his authority and that this is a reason for special action on what has been done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u49	A respectable president. Many of us living today may be grateful to live in 2020, but not all of us may agree that by 2020, there is a good year. But epidemics have gone over the inhabited earth in the past. How grateful we can be that it is not in 1918 when the Spanish flu struck the land! It is estimated that some 490 Icelanders died of that disease. The resources available at that time included the following: to establish a transport ban between parts of the country, and it was criticized that general meeting places had not been closed at the beginning of a epidemic. Today, in 2020, we have more knowledge and experience along with technical technologies that help us fight the invisible threat. I'd like to talk about the infectious barber, like a rough one. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, one of the technical technologies we have used in the fight against the spread of the crown virus. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity, thanking those who created this program to build it, but it was Icelandic companies who gave their work and software to get it on the ground. I'm sure this tool has helped us a lot, but I'm curious if the infectious barber has helped a lot when a certain source of infection has not been traced. Some cases have been that individuals have not realized where they have been infected. Has the app came to the rescue in that case?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u50	A respectable president. I have not really in front of myself the statistics about exactly how many times the infectious barbering has been to help, but I do know that it has been useful, and sometimes it has been the exact addition that was needed for people to recall their travels and where it was at any given time. It is also important to say in this discussion that the degree of transmission is not always clear. If there were two people who touched at some point, or were close to each other at some point, it is not always clear who had the infection before. This is not always the case from A to B, but sometimes it is unclear. Therefore, when talking about specific time points, etc., the app is helpful. I think this app is an example of modern health care, or a modern technology tool in a health - care facility, which helps us so many steps forward. This shows how cooperation between private and public members can be beneficial and helpful. Under this pressure that Covid-19 was, just as soon as we saw the virus in February, March, it was amazing to find how all the pies were mixed together. It was not a matter of who had the idea, etc., but who was everyone laying down by success and progress? The Icelandic infectious process is quite universal, both from the way it developed and from the way it has been used.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u51	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answers. P.S.A. has met a lot of anti-transmission teams, but the people who have been on the bridge who worked tirelessly trying to identify and find all the rides of the crown virus in the community. Many days must have been long, especially when dozens of people have been diagnosed in the same 24 hour period. I think fondly of these individuals. In times of trial, it is good to have access to good people. The size of the team has developed in line with where we are in the pandemic at one time. Likely, then, people had to call out on short notice. How's the human team been doing? Have people been as willing to serve in the fall as they were in spring? Is there a difference? Then I think of those who need to contact those who have been exposed to infection. Hopefully, in most cases, communication has been successful, and individuals are willing to cooperate. In this context, I would like to know how the Icelandic nation has responded to calls from the trace team. Have there been any problems where people have not wanted to talk to the team and refused to cooperate? If so, how has that been the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u52	A respectable president. Perhaps this will be TV shows, movies, and novels of the future, interacting with the contagious team with some individuals who were somewhere they weren't supposed to be, etc. I've not been put in detail about how it's been done, but I've been generally expressed, from both my people, my surgeon and a D.A.D., and then, of course, it's also happened to the head officer and the trinket everything, that in general we can say that the Icelandic community is very ready to participate in all the activities involved in the battle against Covid-19. We've seen isolated cases in which communication has gone wrong. I remember that, for example. Already there was some kind of noodle that was related to a mask at the grocery store, but the premedication we have in Iceland with these short channels, this small community, makes it possible for us to reverse it right away. It has been said that understanding actually comes into existence in just a few days by all talking about it in a few days. It is a natural strength that we have in our small strength. The same is true when the infectious group is in contact with people, all of them are very cooperative, and they want to add their weights to the scales to help extract the fight against Covid-19. We can best see from today's exposure that we are still on the way down. But we are still at this point in mid - April if we compare the wave to the wave in spring, so we still need to keep our lines and not forget our personal defences.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u53	President. I appreciate this discussion. I think it's all very good about this operation, and we have the infectious program particularly for today's discussion. I don't think I'm gonna spend much powder on that tool, I think it's important and useful, having a lot of respect for the police and health professionals used by this tool. Its extensive use gives me a sense of responsibility, trust, and patience. Perhaps I wanted to recall that on the day of the Icelandic language, Alma was asked for a favorite word. She said "transmission." Þórólfur spoke of the unprecedented time and Rögnvaldur become the Cimid-Fatigue. I think that's a understandable word, and I have the same feelings as all of us, I think, sympathy for the nation's feeling of it and that the answer to the Covid fatigue is a stand-up. It was the key. It was the guide at first. My question to the health minister may, on the other hand, be the question and the urgency of my belief in the power of solidarity, and that is one of our most important tools in the battle against this pandemic. Admittedly, the discussion of these actions is followed by a variety of consequences and aspects, much of the good. But what fatigue may we especially be watching on the side of the rulers during that discussion? Is it possible that the government itself is promoting social confusion? Is the government itself soil for Covid fatigue when people are in the media, opening up websites and speaking in a certain way, governments themselves, about the actions of their own government? Isn't this a concern?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question, which is primarily a political question, may not concern himself with the task of solving the Covid-19. Indeed, it is true, as it were. A senator points out that as the operation takes place, more presents, more questions, doubts, and more need for open discussion are found. Part of the reaction is exactly what we're doing here, i.e. To discuss the global situation of the outbreak, operation status, etc. I think there's a lot of work to be done to prevent disease prevention from being political bitters, that disease prevention is not something that orders people into political parties or sides in the political arena. We see an example when such things happen in communities where putting on a mask is a political statement. It's very sad when that happens. That's not exactly why I've stressed that we take the advice of our best people, that the way we deal with Covid-19 is not primarily a political stand but, rather, what we've been proud of in Icelandic society, often when it's been blown. I mention disasters, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, and such things. Then we'll have the opportunity to go over political fantastry and spin pies together, which are now essentially the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u55	Thank you very much. The health minister is very much concerned with the answer. She mentioned the obvious, that the question was political. That's right. Of course, it's concoct, and it's also a basic discussion in the politics. V.E.G. A minister also mentioned that the question may not have involved the project himself. So I disagree. Of course, I wasn't putting myself out to talk about the infectious bar all the time, but it's quite a project who the political signals are. It is my concern that the government, the governor's members, members of the board, is sending messages that are misleading and that are potentially contributing to this Covid fatigue. I have full insight that we have different opinions about this assignment and what tools to use. But I would have thought it was a responsibility on the part of the government and the government of the whole, talking together to the decision and then speaking in one voice afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u56	A respectable president. I just want to make a comment. The senator that it is, of course, true that this question has to do with the project itself because perhaps the largest government project in any community is trying to ensure cooperation in an assignment. Of course you're right, and I agree with the comment. Senator. At the same time, in a democratic society, people, people talk open, people talk out, and that's the kind of community we want. We want a community where differences are not produced in closed space, so people come out of that space, and all talk in a chorus, but if there are doubts, if there are questions, if they are part of the perplexity of society. I think so. But at the same time, I want to thank you. A senator and her political movement for the support of disease prevention because it shows that things can be communicated on a materialistic basis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u57	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for being here to answer these matters. Yes, we're united. We're going to have a problem. I'd like to ask you something I'm worried about, because although there aren't many people, there are certain individuals who are trapped in their homes, who have no masks, no alcohol. I've been asking this before, but now I'm actually more concerned because the epidemic has drawn a long way, and these individuals don't get out on the bus or anything else. Where can they call, even if only in a relief organization or something that had been planned, so that they could get masks and even an alcohol - free home to have a chance to get into the community and go shopping, e.g. A grocery store? Then there is another, actually three vaccines. One of them I think is from AstraZeneca, which is believed to be active 94%, especially for 65 years of age and older. But I'm wondering how this is gonna be selected. If we take these vaccines, store 1 °C at 80 °C, another temperature at 20 °C. Do we have a situation here to store it in this way? Is that what they've thought of? I saw it was taken care of in Brussels, with a storage device for this. How does this choice work out? Then with regard to side effects, have they been charted? Do we know who they are? Will we choose the vaccine that has the slightest side effects?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u58	A respectable president. First about a question why. A member of the council about which people should look if they do not have access to a mask or something like that. I'd think they should consult the community service of the local community. The shops are required to have an amount of alcohol available at the stores when you come in, whether the pharmacy or the grocery store. On the other hand, I'd like to say it in general at what. Under the circumstances like this, when we are in a public defence or in a serious condition in society, it is always harder on the edge of groups. It's just that way. Therefore, we must not lose sight of such groups and that we have been working together, both in cooperation with our rural society, by special donations, by mental health care, for social services, and for children, for poor children, etc. We've been trying to keep our eyes on this ball. I've started two control groups, one group looking at the effects on the mental health of Covid-19. Then, in part, we are talking about what the senator is referring to, which, of course, is isolation and loneliness, etc., which is an even greater risk under these circumstances. There are also questions related to public health, there is another group, and we are talking about sleep and consumption, food, exercise, etc. And we know that being in a peripheral group suggests that the person may have more problems with all these factors and more often, but not because of poverty. We both know that. Hv. A senator asks about a vaccine and how it will be chosen. We are actually signing agreements with many parties in order to ensure us as best we can. Whatever it is. A senator asks about, storage post, function, and side effects, but hopefully the answers will come sooner than later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u59	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'd like them to ask questions about this thing with space and lots in space. Drug and food stores may have a concentration of 50 to 1,100 per square inch [1,000 square meters]. At the end of more than 1,000 square meters, one person may enter above 10 square meters. I came into a store where there can be ten, and there's tightness, and I've also been in a store with 10 people so wide that there could be many more. I ask about an order of 90. Why is this the case? Because a 1,000 square meters store with ten in it contains a completely different 40 to 50 square meters container containing 50 or 25. This is a little strange. Then there's the pools, because older people and many of us need swimming. [[The president calls.]] Will there be relaxation for those who are in dire need of health? [[The president calls.]] Not receiving this service is damaging to the health of some.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u60	A respectable president. These questions are why. A senator completely reflects what's just a daily bread from both a pathologist and my department. There are such questions and questions because people are wondering what is involved in this service and these square feet, etc. What is really our problem may be first of all, making sure that the rules are as common as anything, but not that they are vague and that people are not aware of exactly what they are. I realize completely that this, with a peak of ten people, is a complex thing, but at the same time, it's a very difficult decision - we must never forget why the decision is made. It is about reducing the likelihood of infection, so that is the task. Hv. A senator asks about the swimming pools. I'm very aware of this. Being in a swimming pool is a matter of maintaining motor skills in large groups of society, and that is why it is always on paper for us to take it as soon as possible. But like a dog. A senator knows that we must be careful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u61	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Environment and resource minister for coming here for a special discussion on the reporting of the country in rural planning. It has now been over a year since I requested this discussion, but it has not been established until because of unusual social conditions. I am in charge of this discussion because I believe that organization is a control device that we can use better and more specific than we do today, including for land use policies and development of rural communities. I believe that through organizational work it is possible to promote innovation in any sustainable land use and expansion of rural areas. The first step of such work would be to limit the agricultural land to which food production should be maintained, a land not to be taken from agricultural use, or to maintain in a condition that could easily be restored. After this country was removed, the country we want to have for food production, and even a number of groups would be easier to make decisions about other land uses, such as vacation areas, forestry, or the recovery of wetlands. My goal in this discussion is to offer different viewpoints on the opportunities of the country's organization and at the same time encourage the national class to get more priorities from now on. A country is a resource, and we need to make sure it is new. During the last assembly, I proposed an action plan for global reform. One of the procedures I proposed was that the Environment and Resource Ministry accelerated the production of agricultural systems and developed ways to define habitats in rural areas. The European Parliament's Environment and Resource Ministry, as agreed by the European Parliament, is expected to provide guidelines on the provision of agrienvironment schemes, the European Commission, the European Community, the National Institutes of Agriculture, the Landing, the Forest and the Farming Agency for the development of agrienvironment schemes and other policies on land use. Such guidelines must be made rapidly so that the rural communities can work with a uniform order of action. So I ask: How does agrienvironmental planning guide guide guide use? I was amazed to see you in February. The Council of Agricultural Protection in consultation with agri-environment schemes and those from the Ministry of Employment and Development, apparently without consultation with the Environmental and Resource Ministry. In September, it was so clear that the changes in geologic laws that I can see in terms of the fact that there are significant issues that the government's objective that good farming will not be resolved irreversibly to other uses. So I ask you, what kind of cooperation is there with the Department of Employment and Development on this kind of work? How sad it is to see a good farm cut down into the cottages, even where there is plenty of other suitable summer farms! Governments and the general public influence land use through rural planning. In organizational work, it is important to determine where to expect a full-scale home and to set the goal of employment and income resources for society. Thus, a country's classification could contribute to better soil management. Then I have three more questions: How can agrienvironmental policies support government policy on land and land management? Is it possible that planning plans could become the basic requirement for habitat, management or abroadal activities? What effect would the division of land in rural areas have on the use of land for carbon binding and the recovery of ecosystems? There have been a number of efforts at the General Assembly to build a rural organization on agrienvironmental classification. Projects, groups, and a substantial number of case reports have been under attack. So I'm curious to find out what the situation really is. Some rural societies have classified agrienvironment schemes without using the same methodology for their work. Others are in trouble putting aside change of land use applications due to lack of grounds for decision-making.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u62	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator is eager to bring up an issue on this important matter. Following the resolution of a resolution of national planning policy, the Environment and Resource Ministry was calling out the relevant parties. A member of the United States referred to, Organization, the Union of Icelandic rural society,land health and forestry, and Iceland's Basis to meet up with agrienvironment schemes and other policies on land use. There were various emphasises on the scope of agrienvironment schemes, the land suitable for breeding, what is productive land, and what is really a good agricultural country. Thus, discussions over a number of aspects have been developing in recent years, while there have been differences in how extensive and extensive agrienvironment schemes would be needed. There has also been valuable experience with the classification of agriculture in which some rural areas have attacked, and since then. A senator came into it too. In line with the Environment and Resource Ministry, the initiative was then taken to address the aims and laws of the soil as well as to refer to national planning. Under the law of the ground, it should be ensured that land that is properly dropped for agricultural production will be preserved for such use. The instructions are derived from the representatives of the National Farm Institute of Iceland, the Organization and the Proactive Ministry, but the Environmental and Resource Ministry has been provided with information at various levels of work. I specifically state that the Organization is within that table, which is, of course, the Office of Environment and Resources. This guide is expected to be available at the end of 2020. How satisfying it is to see that this cooperation is achieving success with what was written in a national planning policy! But how can agrienvironmental policies support government policies on land and land management? That's the question of why. Senator. Systemic and harmonizing agri-aggregation is an important requirement for rural development, where decisions are made in setting up a country for building and other innovations. Such mapping provides an overview of the scope and location of the land considered to be a good breeding land, and it can be used to meet the strategy for building and implementing land. According to that, the plans for agrienvironment schemes are expected to be based on agrienvironment schemes. It says that a land suitable for breeding will not generally be used for others in an irreversible way. In addition to the classification of agricultural land, it is important that national governments provide clear planning policies, such as the maintenance of good farming, protection and restoration of carbon - rich soil and forestry, to guide the development of rural planning decisions. Together, a systematic category of land and clear government policy may allow for decisions in rural planning programmes, the land use of rural areas, to work better and more progressively that the objective of governments, such as biodiversity, carbon division, food security, innovation and geographicisation. Programmes include a plan for the purpose and decisions of the local government for future use of the land. It explains that such projects are being planned and how they fall into land use in a designated area. It is thus true that a strategy will discuss requirements that may be related to land use. Then there will be a plan for the basis of permit measures for the use involved. Therefore, plans will stipulate a set framework for land use, but on the basis of planning plans, decisions will not be made to force the application procedures. The decision by the Environment and Resource Commission can be referred to in Article No. 127/209. Therefore, strategy alone will not be a basic requirement for the habitat, management, or use of land, land, land, or workers in rural areas but could support such demands of the policies they present, as well as the limits of land use framework. And that's what's important in this context. Agricultural and harmonizing systems of agricultural nations, which are classified by eco-efficient land, soil type, tilt, land level and after events, provide planning authorities with a better subsidiary strategy for rural development to encourage and recover wetlands and other decompositioned ecosystems, to answer the last question. Senator. The classification can also facilitate priority measures and integration with other land uses. Most important, the country's systems give evidence of a carbon supply that should be preserved in the soil and where to add carbon to the soil with good farming practices, such as in the mineral soil.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u63	Mr. President. We'll discuss some aspects of land use and planning. Controversy on this subject is both important and timely, as it involves a number of topics that have been high in recent years, such as forestry, vacation areas, wind milling gardens, sale of land, wetlands, upbuilding, farming, food production, food security, expansion, and many other things. I'm just gonna talk about our food production. It is important to consider overall food production, taking into account all aspects of this, since the basis for this production is wholesome natural resources; air, water, and soil. That is where the organization of natural resources, which are the basis of our original production, is the most important thing. In recent years, much has been discussed with individuals, often foreign masters, on earth, and even whole areas. Of course, these purchases are designed for various challenges, ranging from simply enjoying privacy or isolation in Icelandic mountain halls to obtain some kind of power in individual fishing areas for vague purposes in sports fishing areas or for other purposes. This purchase has been a thorn in the eyes of many who feel that the land is passing through the hands of the local people. In view of the discussion we take, it is a realistic concern if or when large areas of land that are even well - equipped have been taken away from the traditional agricultural practices used here. Young people's ability to develop new habitats is reduced at least For a while. What, though, is the government's policy regarding this land - to - land purchase? It has mainly been observed in the inaction that the government has shown this issue, for in the three years that the government has been in power, there have been no changes in these matters, none of which are of any importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for opening up needs and timely discussions. Here we are dealing with important aspects of our environment, our relationship with nature and use of a country, how we want in an orderly and formal way to be careful and to maintain good values for sustainable development. Here we introduce the terms economy, society, nature, that is just like a golden red thread into our 1987 report of the Hebrew, Norwegian cognitionist Gro Harlem Brundtland, our joint future. The report led to the UN World Conference on Environment and Development in Rio 1992 and became a turning point. In time, this concept appeared first, self-sustaining. Self - control is just one of the main factors in thinking about the consequences of today's decisions for the benefit and well - being of humans, animals, and nature in the future. Thus, the subject of the special discussion here at the Council today is considered by this ideologies. The bioavailability of rural areas is amongst rural policies, with rural planning, such as any country's provision for agricultural use, which has over the centuries been the most common phenomenon of rural areas. It's hard to be a prophet in your own country. But there are those who predict future growth in agricultural production. Thus, the number of tourists in the years to come and also the growth of the population itself. For these reasons, traditional and deep - seated food production will be needed. However, changing eating habits and overproduction that we have when we are dealing with could significantly alter this scene. It is indeed a challenge for traditional agriculture, and it is predictable that farmers and the whole branch will have to deal with them effectively and effectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u65	A respectable president. Prominent in this discussion, here, is a very important subject of culture and its organization, its classification, and possibly its dependability. It may be a strange thought when we look at an abundance of food on markets near us and also look at the tremendous changes in methods and attitudes toward the use of much more food sources, as it were; the use of algae, new breeding techniques, and so on. But it is not that simple that we need not think about what we are doing. The march of a black - eyed forecast surely requires the agricultural land we own here. A growing country is a resource source we should be concerned about. It also provides one of the objectives that more and more nations now define as part of their national security, i.e. The potential for producing food, food-onlys, and control over farms and water is becoming increasingly important. I want to, when discussing organizational matters, to be reminded of the recent OECD report on overcommunicative planning and heavy - metal systems. Although it is not evident that OECD's criticism was significant, I would like to remind you that the limitation of land use can be very burdensome to evolution, progress, and the pursuit of value. This is what I would like to agree that the integration and guidance on the classification of agricultural land are a great improvement. A number of rural areas have already adopted the classification of breeding countries in their strategy. I would also like to encourage you to look for directions to the development of the forest or to restore wetlands. In fact, a small percentage of Iceland is an economic land, but in many areas there are significant areas that could be useful for carbon binding in agriculture and forestry. It is fundamental to my mind that such a system will be consistent and that there will be clear guidance. A verbalist in the discussion will also bring up a discussion on the family responsibilities and the provision of land in planning plans. There might be a special discussion later, but I'd like to conclude that with a completely altered view of the place, an altered attitude of technology, we can look at a farm in a way we don't know what it is that has been done so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u66	President. After about 30 years, the population will be twice as large as it was 30 years ago, and since people take up space, we will have to continue walking on unscrupulous nature as we have done in the past 30 years. The 13-fold U.S. area has disappeared in the past 30 years, that is more area than South Africa, the ninth largest country in Africa. We must bear in mind that over a quarter of the world's entire country, which is not covered with snow, is used as a pasture land. A third of all grasslands are used to feed animals. Without technological advances and better innovations, we will have to use more and more of the earth to sustain our life - style. It should be obvious to all that this is a matter of maximal conversation that we cannot overtake. We have to do better than that. We must plan land use carefully and encourage other nations to do the same because it is a global problem. Our lifestyle requires land use in other parts of the world. When we buy coffee at the store, it is not likely to have been cultivated where the jungle used to be. Any coffee bag we buy will cost land use somewhere in the world, and it will probably not cost land to ourselves and anywhere else. More people, more coffee, less jungle. Clearly, there is a need for better planning, for unnoring nature is the basis for the variety of life here as is in other parts of the world. In Iceland, we need to consider this organization, not just land, the highest. Minister, also in the shores and in the open waters. It's about fish farms, wind plants, seaweeds, tide or currents, and so on. There are many assignments on this exact matter that we need to consider in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u67	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's log for a very interesting discussion that she had premeditated. I'm going to talk only about integrating food systems and agricultural planning with regard to sustainable development. Food systems include food systems. Draw out the characteristics and effects of different food production methods and are compared for sustainable development, including to see where it would be best to pursue a specific type of farm for sustainability, i.e. Economic, environmental and social factors. Agricultural policies must be devoted to such work and then to agricultural policy. Then you might ask: What is our agricultural policy here? Do we place the same signal between agriculture and agricultural development? I don't think that's the general idea, but it's definitely the image. The same applies to agricultural policy. The image can be found in data showing land use and use in the country. It's not always beautiful. It's not always beautiful. Our last class proclaimed agrienvironmental policy to be developed in the future. It is an exciting project, and it is urgent, and hopefully a minister has good luck to call a table the many people who are interested in molding such a course. I'm asking here, and I'm really interested in hearing the answer, what the entrance of the Environment Minister to the shape of the policy is. We are accustomed to talking about the importance of agricultural products, the importance is certainly undisputed and future, but it is our soil and vegetation, which is the real resource of the Icelandic nation, just as the sea is the resource we use as a fishing nation. We've got too long, but we've got our country's bad state, including... Overzealously, and in a better way, we have rejoiced excessively over little steps. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is time for us to think about a future course based on the best state of our country. [[The president calls.]] From that point on, we will determine how we want to use our land. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You see, there's a lot of opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u68	A respectable president. We are here discussing very interesting matters regarding land, land use, and many more in this context, carbon tracks, and other things. But the key point is: Who really owns the land? Is it possible to buy whole areas and not make use of them or to use them in some way that many people do not like? Unfortunately, we've found that rich people are buying up land, e.g. ... eastside. This is very bad because, of course, we need to do something there right away. But we also need to realize that we have come very far, such as. In forestry and there we have much to look at, forest use, where we best use forestry, and what I've pointed to in speeches, burning rooms. How much do they have to be? And where do they need to be? We need a compartment so that we are not falling into the same pit we have observed, for example. In America. The forest seems to burn year after year, and no solution can be found to stop it. They call all my alarm alarms because they tell us something's not right. I hope so much and truly and believe it to the highest. The Environment Minister has a very good plan and has plotted how we should see to it that we do not face the problem of burning forests by other nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u69	A respectable president. It's even here. discussed the potential for land use. Since 1978 the country has been organized, and since 1997 it has been obliged to destabilize agricultural countries. Nevertheless, the scope of agricultural land has not yet been defined in Iceland. What may be lacking is that agrienvironments have not been adequately implemented in main planning programmes. It presents one category as agrienvironment schemes, not by different agricultural sectors, efficiency and possibilities. In contrast to land, different farming practices may be different and exert different effects on the environment and other factors. The 2004 law says that their aim is to help the use of land and rights associated with it to be guided by the land and the interests of society and future generations. The purpose of the law is also. to promote diverse and competitive agriculture. Companys have the organizational authority. Hence, their responsibilities are of great importance. The right sort of national and general planning must be supported by community interests and future generations guided. Agricultural systems could counteract the aim of aquifers. The agreed policy-making plan says that the aim of the government with the plan is to contribute to equal opportunities for employment and sustainable development across the country. Under these measures, agrienvironment schemes such as the discovery of the benefits of microindustries, forestry will be strengthened and emphasised on the development of forest products and the growth of the full - time agricultural products in rural areas. It is vital, therefore, that the division of the country is more targeted by government policy. The development of fiber optics and improved transport increase the potential for a wide range of work activities in the rural area and should take this into account. But then I ask the highest. Minister: Why have rural society not been under advised on the classification of agricultural land and what is taking so long?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u70	Mr. President. The benefits of national planning are obvious, and it needs to be done with careful work by means of a light exchange between recruitments, and therefore thanks for the discussion. The national classification for land use, agriculture and other uses is a very important project due to national abilities and growing pressure on land use. There is increasing food production, increasing food production, increasing energy plants, growth of wetlands, growth of forestry, and domestic, land recovery, energy production, etc., that's obvious. I just want to talk about the forest industry, which is not achieved at an acceptable rate, in my opinion, in spite of the increase of money and enthusiasm and urgent need. I'd like them to remind me of something new. That's what I'm talking about. It's what I'm talking about. It is deforestated for carbon binding. This involves the cooperation of forestry with forest farmers. It is called a deforestation bridge, and this project, wood charcoal, has a special site. It means that companies, even abroad, institutions, individuals, place money in forestry to bind carbon because of their own activity. It's measured and the witnesses and they're binding carbon for the future. It is imperative that national planning take this into account, that there will be areas called simply climate forests. I encourage it with great force, and I think we need to make a smart move in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u71	Mr. President. In my first speech, I spoke of the government's inactivity in terms of a massive sale of land, but the current government has made no changes in that subject, at least none that matter. It is important that governments set a clear policy on these products and in general on land use. You see, government policies regarding agricultural systems are not clear. It is important for future generations to have plenty of land available for agriculture and generally for food production. Mr. President. We are in the foundation of a food - producing nation, not just for ourselves, but in a great way by establishing a position in more ways than just fishing. We live here so well that we have the wealth of plenty of land, but also the pure water, the clean air, the hot water, and, above all, the health of our livestock. It would seem that food production needs to increase in the world. That's why we have to be careful. It is vital for us in the future to protect livestock from alien diseases, to protect the clean water from contamination by man's pollution. Let us not be wasteful in that area, providing quicker support for our national food security. Protect important land for future uses of food production. That's why I'm celebrating this discussion. Let's arrange for land quality to be increased, e.g. By forest development, which supports habitats in the rural areas and increases harvests and brings us, as some form of increased production, a vast increase in carbon binding in terms of climate change change, crops, employment, and currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u72	President. A rural organization opens up a wide range of land uses, whether called farming, tourism, vacation areas, or outdoors, but all of this has to be at peace with nature and landscapes. As I mentioned in my first speech, it is in the power of rural society to shape a rural planning policy. The current national planning policy provides goals for the diversity and economic use of agrienvironments in agreement with the environment and emphasizes that a country suitable for farming will not be considered for other uses. But what is a good land, how is it defined, and what should be considered regarding the development of rural and organizational areas? These are important questions to me. The situation remains that agrienvironmental land or agricultural land is indistinguishable and should be stratified according to the use options, e.g. Where's the best farm country, the agricultural land? This has been shown in the case of more people here today. A respectable president. True, the land is beautiful and free. Much of it has been used for agricultural purposes, in fact, often regardless of actual land quality. According to Iceland's Habitat, a land of agricultural uses was 15◯16% of the country throughout 2010. It has been estimated that only about 6% of Iceland is a good breeding country, but a small part of that country is already cultivated, or about 1.6% of the whole country. However, land use is increasing, and so is the demand for land for diverse land uses. In this regard, there are the effects of the large - scale traffic of tourists. So these factors need to be taken into account in cooperation with landowners and planning. There will be many clear and wide obligations to landowners regarding land use. [[The president calls.]] In this area, rural authorities are expected to be on guard and to develop a vision based on sustainable development, a green future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u73	A respectable president. We'll talk about the classification of rural areas. Many people will find this very specific debate, but I would like to argue that organizational matters are one of the largest environmental and climate-related issues in the world, i.e. how we plan the land for the future and at the same time the importance of leaving something for the future generation and not planning everything in the bush and deciding in the long future how it should be used. This is especially about agricultural and agricultural areas in rural areas. Of course, I know that the value of a country is more dependent on what is organized in the country, although it is now here in the capital area. In general, I mean the money money money that people can get for it, relatively little in agriculture. The land's quality may vary for different agriculture practices. That is likely what we have to do in some way to ensure the long future that there is plenty of land for food and production. Then I think we should have a little guide-light discussion with farmers and farmers. I'd like to say they're one of the best agents in the country, have shown it over the years. We've been doing sheep farmers so far, we've got forest farmers, we can talk about carbon farms today, travel service here a few months ago, and hopefully we'll stay. I want it to be directed to the highest. Minister to give particular consideration to what farmers have to offer in this regard. But I'm also going to use this opportunity to point out one very serious mistrial in our legal application in the punitive budget. You can't collect road building fees in rural areas, but you can collect them from urban areas. There are discrepancies and unreasonableness, and I think we in this room need to consider this. [[The president calls.]] This can also affect the value of a country once again affecting a future organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u74	President. The discussion here, after all, is about certain food security. Excessive quantities of land use are due to agriculture, farm animals, food production, and mining as well. In most parts of the world where the deforestation is, half of the combined deforestation takes place in either land or mine, which is of interest. Maybe we don't have exactly the same problems here, but we do. In the coming years and decades, the better the more certain advances in technology or the possibility of some technological advancements that make planning and use of the land easier, especially for food security issues. I want to emphasize this: The goal is that we, mankind, make nature as much as we can. We do not make unnecessary use of it. We have come to a place in the world that wild, uninhabited land has become so unknown, in the past decades. In the near future, we will see a specific energy revolution that makes local energy produce much easier, and there will be no need to take an enormous amount of space under the activations and the like. There will be tremendous self - efficiency, technology such as carnivore, which also works for plants and plant cells. There we must give a little thought to the fact that our climate and food security depend simply on the number of people in the world that we see up to the next few decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u75	A respectable president. I want to thank you again for this discussion. At first, I thought she was a little lightheaded, then I liked her, and now I think she's great. There is much to consider in terms of land use, land use, and the best way to grow in the affected areas, as this may vary. You may grow one product, and growing it over and over in the same box can be bad, so it needs to be replaced. Farmers must have had the best way to do that. Then there is a new situation regarding land protection. We were most concerned about avalanches and disasters, but now climate change is taking place, and it's coming in with extreme weather features, huge droughts even in one place, followed by huge rains and floods in another place. We've seen what I believe is one of the conditions of climate change now, that the soil is released and runs down like a flood down the mountainside. It may be the next problem of generations to try to figure out where it is most likely to occur and how to stop it. Then, as you say, good animal advice. It's a question of whether it pays to increase the forestry that I think is one of the main points, we're supposed to be a big upforest. We're supposed to do it well, so we're careful to use the right land under forestry, but we're also supposed to fix soils. Of course, it's hard to answer, but it's like that. A senator entered it is believed that 6% of the country is a good breeding ground and how we should do so is a question to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u76	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Ministers of the answers and any members of the council who took part in the discussion. The discussion has covered landlands, even around the world, and it has been as productive as it is to the sea. Although much of the discussion has gone beyond the questions I raised, all the discussions have been of great importance to this group, an organization of landlands. It was good to hear from a minister that cooperation is beginning to give direction on agrienvironmental systems and even by the end of 2020. It's very good news, but I wondered, "Is the switch between the Environment Department and the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Employment really clear enough? ' Lye, e.g. enough for how the Department of Employment for Agrienvironment schemes and the Guidelines of the Organization are linked and working together? The discussion has shown that we need to emphasize organization. All of us were involved in this conversation agreed that the country is a resource that we must make wise use of. The classification and planning of the country are environmental, animal-based, agricultural and food safety issues and may, at least indirectly, affect the provision of the land and thus the purchase of land. Although organization cannot be the basis for a requirement for something new, it can evidently be of support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u77	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you very much for this good discussion and say, with a word of mouth, that organization is very important when it comes to agricultural land and, as I said at the outset, the guidelines for agrienvironmental development should be ready at the end of the year. I would also like to state that this is a basis for setting aside the most valuable land that would be most suitable for agriculture. I also want to remind you that we have instructions for deforestation in an organization and that we have guidance for the recovery of wetlands, which is also important here. Then I'd like to remind you that an important part of this government's climate action programme is turning toward agriculture issues, double forestry, double crops, and tenfold recovery of wetlands. We are now working on a national project on both forestry and land healing, which will be of great importance to the rural organization and to speak clearly into the discussion we have had here today. I need less than that. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason stated that the earth's laws were changed for some years because further restrictions were placed on land - collections and were done under the leadership of prime minister Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, so the current government may not have done what the previous government has failed to complete before. I'd also like to see that, here at my Ministerial Times, a period of effort has been made to provide a peace-depth environment that is important for sustainable development for the coming decades and is part of this discussion and will achieve a great deal of success in my evaluation in the coming decades, especially for tourism. Finally, I'd like to call attention to projects that have been led by the Environment and Resource Ministry and to the agriculture of the region. These are climate - related agriculture and agriculture and nature protection. I believe that these projects can become important formulas for future agriculture support.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u78	Because of a failure in a vote system, the president wishes that the variants will be granted without a vote, according to 1 mg. 80. g. Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u79	A respectable president. I'm here offering an opinion with a bill-change proposal to legalize temporary reimbursement due to recording music from a greater part of the labour board. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Sigrún Brynja Einarsdóttir and Þórarinn Örn Þrándarson, from the Ministry of Professional and Neothemechanism. The committee received reviews from STEF ◯ the relationship between composers and owners of transportation rights, the city of Reykjavík and UTDN. The bill suggests a change in one condition for reimbursement of the defined cost in the publication of audio recording of music, such as 5. songs about temporary reimbursement due to audio recording of music. Inlands and abroad, conditions may be filled with the reimbursement of costs that match the sound of local music. This also accounts for 25% of the production costs dropped in the European Economic Area if more than 80% of the production costs fall to this country. One conditional remuneration is that the combined playing time of the music recording is 30 minutes, such as the a-j 1 mgr. Section 5. The law. However, with a bill this is suggested that the playtime be sufficient to reach 14 minutes. Therefore, in terms of a remuneration version, there will be a minimum of four medium lengths (4 x 3.5 minutes). The change is aimed at supporting national music industry, publishers, and artists by increasing the number of audio recordings that meet the requirements for playing time. The reviews the committee received about the case were positive. It was observed that the adjustment proposed by the bill is thought to reflect the changes that have occurred in the publication of music during the past few years. Abbreviated playtime can also strengthen Iceland's competitive status as an ideal recording site for foreign musicians. The reviews also indicated that it is important to consider whether the return rate of reimbursement from 25% to 35%. This would provide sufficient incentive for foreign parties to produce music in this country, as well as for such expansion, would encourage local members to make greater use of the resources. A few discussions were made on the committee, but in the bill's report, proposals for a remuneration rate rise had been made in a series of consultations on the bill. It would have been decided, not this time, but rather, to shorten the playing time and thus meet a local music industry in the light of changed circumstances. With the change, it would likely be that more projects would reach thresholds and that reimbursement would be more frequent, but extra funds would not be needed, although the annual total amount of reimbursed was slightly increased as funds were intended to reimburse so far were not fully used. The Commission requested information from the Ministry on how much extra funds would be needed to raise the pay rate from 25% to 35%. It was observed that the resulting year of 2020 is 29 million. K. are being reimbursed, but according to the follow-up of budgets, it is expected that the contribution of the state funds can be received at least 54.5 million. K. Had this year's remuneration rate been 35%, 40.6 million would have been taken care of. K. This is November. It was observed that these non - Member States actually refer to foreign projects, e.g. audio recordings performed in local audio studios. In order to calculate its impact on domestic and foreign applications if the remuneration rate was increased to 35% since 2021. The Ministry also pointed out that the matter will be examined in the context of a review of reimbursement to the Ministry of Movies. That opinion takes a month but can give an idea of the amount of money limit when it comes to reimbursement for recorded music. With the evidence that the Ministry will consider an increase in the reimbursement rate due to recorded music, the majority of the shares do not feel that it is possible to suggest an increase in pay ratio at this time. The majority of them encourage a rapid review and a reimbursement rate to provide a basis for this. In view of this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: The bill's headline will be: Cells to correct temporary reimbursement of music, No. 110/2016 (play time). Under this opinion, write why. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Benediktsson Beneoraksson, and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson. So I'm done with what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u80	A respectable president. I'm here recommending a panel of members of the European Commission, which consists of those listed here, Hrafn Haffni Gunnarsson, and why. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Frisbjörg, the daughter of Elijah The first smaller part agrees with the opinion of the greater part in all respects except that we believe that the payoff rate should be raised from 25% to 35%. According to STEF, a group of composers and owners of transport rights, the organization considered it important to increase this proportion to provide sufficient incentive for foreign people to adopt local music, but such increases would further encourage local members to use the resources. The first memory item agrees with this view and suggests that the ratio will be increased as early as possible. During the commission, there was some debate about financing. In view of STEF's comments, the first smaller objects feel that the increase in money is extremely low compared to the opportunities that the increase would involve. The committee found that the total pay raise of the state was 54.5 million per year compared with the current year. We also received information from the Ministry that if the remuneration rate had been 35%, that would have been 76.3 million. This is some of it is divided by 25 times 35. There's no calculations. That means the increase is 21.8 million. K. each year with lower amounts of money we can see at the General Assembly. This is a very small amount, given the potential benefits. The potential benefits may include the desire to use Icelandic services by foreign people. By doing so, we might invite foreign parties to bring assignments here in Iceland. If that goal did not work out, the increase would even come to those who have an Icelandic project in Iceland. A smaller portion also feels that there would be improvement, even if the result were only, especially now in this Covid situation where musicians and other artists have experienced a significant loss of income, a total loss of income in a very large number of cases. There's been a few discussions about that, naturally. The overall progress has not yet been fully replaced by sources, suggesting that this is not a great risk of sudden exposure to a flood of applications. If there is anything, there is still reason to advertise it, and it has been pointed out in the reviews that it contains members. At the very least, the amount of money and the reimbursement of the nature of 1st small objects are absolutely confident to contribute to this possible increase in government expenses for the benefits it may bring. Only with regard to the opinion of the greater part is the Ministry's work in the process of reimbursement in a slightly larger sense, even in terms of reimbursement of filmmaking. The first smaller things, they think it's fine, and they're in themselves, but they don't have any reason to wait. There is no need to get results from that examination to make that decision right now. The premiums are in place. We know exactly what we're doing. We know what the amount is. We know the risks. They are known to be present. According to this, my 1st trust things were totally up to suggest this. Now it seems that 2 smaller things have another opinion, which will be explained after a brief period of time. These smaller items, however, contribute to the same material change, which is the rise in the remuneration rate from 25% to 35%, as I said at the outset. This consists of the 1st smaller part of the one that stands here, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, and why. paritaprevir Friðbjörg The Living of Elíasdótta, but in other respects, a lesser portion contributes to the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u81	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for suggesting this. I think it's important to the whole thing from the government, and I think it's important, but anyway, I support that approach as a matter of course. A senator came in earlier, increased the payment rate, and agrees. The views that came from STEF and some others in regard to the reimbursement of this case and raised them to 35%. Why am I coming here and having an answer? I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he can think of a temporary, two or three - year - old step in order to see and assess the results of such an increase. Then it is not that I am hiding that as we review operations, not government therapys, but their economic actions, they do not have enough and a great deal of force to focus on dictators, musicians, artists, the food industry, as we really see that these articles need to be held. So I'd like to ask if he's looking at this as the only way he's going to be there. the heavy income caused by musicians. It is quite clear that this path will contribute to my opinion, will help with a certain interval, at least during this pandemic Since there will be a very heavy rowing until the next year, the question is, in fact, about two, whether this is part of a way to meet a significant intake of musicians, creates jobs, enhances uncertainty, then reduces uncertainty, and then, if he can think of the possibility of intervening, that we have this in any way two or three years, and then they will be evaluated after that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. Hv. A senator asks if I can support myself in my efforts to have the increase for a while, from 25% to 35%. I wouldn't be necessarily against it, I have to admit that I haven't thought of it until now, but quickly, I don't see much reason because the main argument that they from STEF to attract foreign parties would work for me on my own. Whether this has the effect I think will be revealed very soon. The argument is that if you don't get the point of attracting foreign parties, it still takes advantage of Icelandic musicians who have an all - time job, first of all are a precautionary practice for this proposal. Second, I think that in the field of music and art, it is generally a matter of well - funding such with a particular challenge in today's society, especially with a new technology that has stirred in every older business model that was highly involved in the bank sale. That model is, I allow myself to say, dead or as much as, so I believe there is good reason to experiment on that subject, away from the Covid situation as such. I think I would suggest this even if it wasn't for the Covid situation and even if it wasn't for the main argument, which are trying to attract foreign parties. Whether the experiment will succeed then needs to be seen by time. I'd rather have it in my own hands if I had it in my own hands, so maybe we'd rethink it after a certain time, but I wouldn't do anything against having it timed out or having it temporarily if there were any particular reason for it. But the evidence I use to suggest this does not mean that it has to be timed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u83	A respectable president. I'll buy that whole argument and back it up. I think that if we watch reimbursement in films, experience there would have shown us that it has produced an enormous amount of value in Icelandic films, apart from maintaining knowledge and knowledge in the important article in film art. Then there's the other about STEF. I think, and there may be another matter, and does not touch this, that it is quite clear, and we know that the main imports to musicians are in December. Substitution to be significantly reduced at this time, including because to those who are paying their plains, such as shops and restaurants, the loss of income has become enormous. We know that STEF has met those sites, whether smaller or larger, in this difficult situation. This should not lead to an increase in the insecurity of the musicians or of the owners of the rights to transport music. So we have to make sure that STEF has the same space that it has always had to pay off to the right music as it has usually done around Christmas. I see at the top. The Minister of Education is here, I believe the government should have considered how this interval could have been completed temporarily in cooperation with the STEF so that justice officers and musicians can be guaranteed with their revenue at this time, because, as we know, an unprecedented time. This is similar to the view that the government guarantees this at a certain time so that people will not be affected by income and that they are motivated, including the U.S. For STEF to ensure payment for the righting of music during this time. But this was an extra issue in connection with it. I think this matter is blessedly focused on what we have to do, which is to meet musicians. This motion is what it's all about. A senator and a what. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Frieda, the daughter of Elijah, agrees, and I want to express support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the introduction, hoping that there will be more discussion about the ideas. One senator was saying that he was welcome to find some model and a situation that works for artists because so many things have changed over the last few decades, two or three. I also think there's something special to consider in general when it comes to mental and mental creations, i.e. how well Iceland is meant to carry out imaginations. It doesn't matter whether we're talking about music, movies, software, literature or anything, because we, as a very small society in the context of the great world, have certain natural limitations. We can't be the best in the world of making cars, I suppose, or jets or something like that. There's a lot of industry where we don't have a chance to get on a world scale. But when it comes to thinking, there is no point, because the only natural resource needed is people themselves and their own intelligence, their mind, and their heart. We have shown this many times over the years that other countries, including the arts, can reach a great extent internationally, and thus introduce our country and nation, our culture, our language, and all of that, except for the economic effects. That's all in my opinion what is missing in Iceland's economy, which has been a fishing project, an aluminium, and a tourist service, which is a subject of itself. We should be able to add much and greatly to the support and use of imaginations in as wide as possible. It's where we think our parish tools are. That is why we are trying to succeed in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u85	A respectable president. We're here on a bill about a change in temporary reimbursement from recording of music. This case is in the shortest interest, so that current legislation assumes 25% reimbursement of the resuscitable costs involved in the audio recording process. One of the criteria for reimbursement is that the combined playing time of recording is not less than 30 minutes, but in some respects the minimal time in the daily language is referred to as a wide - moving motion. In the old days, LPs were sometimes spoken of as well as in the text. But we live in a different time, Mr. President. Changed markets and environments have led many musicians to choose to produce single songs or sometimes short disks to call attention to their artistic or new albums. Daily speech refers to a disk that contains more than one track, often four to six, but less than a standard 30-minute recording time. The mean duration of pop song, attributed to a report with the bill, is shorter than before, 3 minutes and 30 seconds instead of 4 minutes before 20 years ago. You will now think of a variety of laws from this sector that are much longer. But it was in ancient and classical times. In general, it is believed that the consumption of music has moved into a flow band where the exchange of valuables depends on the number of cards. The core of this bill suggests that the combined music recording period will be 14 minutes instead of 30. It meets the needs of publishers and artists in the following changes in market and environment. The remuneration criteria would mean an average of at least four layers, and here a formula is given four times 3.5 minutes. Mr. President. I'm here recommending a commission about the process of changing the law on temporary reimbursement due to audio recording of music. The majority of the employment committees support the progress but cannot agree to wait with the rise in reimbursement rates, as most of the items suggest. In this context, a smaller section of the Committee points out that the music industry is considered to be a product of innovation and wands that are important at this time. A powerful rod could create job opportunities, income, and valuables for national preparation. In this regard, it is also important to have a living relationship with foreign parties in the field of musical equipment and recordings. It is a scepter of growth that has already demonstrated its power and power to grow. A smaller section gives us reason to use this opportunity, to promote music and recording, as there is only a small amount of money on the part of the government budget and, in fact, has been identified. A smaller section thus feels that it is more important to meet a growing industry that is designed to create valuable, well - paying jobs. There's a significant increase in the remuneration rate from 25% to 35%. According to the above, another suggests a smaller section for the bill to be passed on by the adjustment proposed on a special Senate document. Under this view, the writer of this article, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isafas, and the sharp one. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson. Then I'd like to finally assume that we represent the smaller groups at the moment. The employment board is convened by the changes to the bill that the total reimbursement rate increases to 35%. Under the motion of writing. Councilmen Inst. Hrafn Gunnarsson, Friðbjörg Frifjörgof Elíasdóttir and Sigurður Páll Jónsson, as well as here. I would like to let me finish my talk by explaining my hope that the adjustment proposal I have made will be given the support here at a meeting that she deserves, and that people will seize this opportunity and contribute to the grand work involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u86	Mr. President. I'm coming up here as another carrier in my 1st place. The employment committee in case of a change in temporary reimbursement by audio recording of music and simply to encourage more parts to support these reported changes made by us and the 2nd smaller section of the Committee suggests, i.e. to raise the remuneration rate from 25% to 35%, I believe that would be a very important decision. It would be natural to benefit at any given time, but especially in the current situation with Covid. Not only is this currency proposal, something we're always happy with, but it also creates an increase in the reimbursement rate of jobs for musicians. I would like to take advantage of this context to draw attention to what has been happening on the north side of the Akureyri Society and is very interesting and interesting. A small pet project, which is actually not that small anymore, called the Sinfonianord, is the Symphony Ordinary Society of Northern America. For example, in the recent morning's morning newspaper, Þorvaldsson, director of the Institute for Cultures of Akureyri and the Þorvaldur Bjarni of Northern Africa, wrote an article that pointed out just how Symphonianor has actually been discovered in the darkness of the Symphonian Orchestra and musicians in the North Land in the condition that Covid has created. Instead of keeping about During this period of eight concerts, which would normally have been announced to be held, the band has been able to concentrate on the deceptive work Symphonanord involved in the recording of symphony music in Hofi. In this article, Þorvaldur Bjarni explains how this has been so. That's where even the two of them come from. so that from the time of the Passover, 12 international titles have been adopted in the north, and the project has rolled high to 50 million dollars. which, in fact, is twice the amount the band collects from public sources to carry out a regular program. How they have been able to fill to some extent the empty that has been caused by Covid-19 is truly a source of joy. This shows at the same time how important the pay rate is, primarily to get these foreign workers to bring big jobs to the country. This has been the turnaround of a major agency in Hollywood, Netflix, and others. The handsome success of the SymphonyNord project also shows that a serious North American band can be held out. So it would be inappropriate, not to strengthen the project in a far more handsome way, than we do today. We could also do so by making it easier for them to get an assignment by raising the payoff rate from 25% to 35%. In fact, if we were to expand our support specifically on this project, although only about a tenth of what is devoted to similar projects in the capital area, we could create up to 39 jobs outside the capital area. This is a very interesting project, and it may be that today they are recording the music Þórður Magnússon in the 100 - year - old epican feat known as the History of the City clan. Sixty people came to that assignment from the Northern Symphonic Orchestra in Hofi, a cultural home. It takes less time for musicians today to get on such a project. Therefore, I reiterate that I strongly encourage more parts to support these changes in smaller parts of the employment committee. This is certainly important to a great many and especially to a national benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u87	A respectable president. I'm moving more of the committee's opinion right here. Work committee on bill to correct the change in the law on markings and information relating to energy use products, with subsequent changes. A professional health committee has been able to discuss the matter and have arranged for visitors to meet them. In addition, the Committee received reviews from Homing and Civilization Institutes and joint reviews from the Industrial Associations and Business and Service Associations. The bill suggests that there are changes in the law on the meaning and information relating to the use of domestic energy. The legislation is framed, originally set for implementation of Directive 92/75 from the European Union, and later modified to implement its changes by Directive 2010. On the basis of it, the number of regulations on the marking and information related to the use of energy from individual products has been set. However, this bill introduces a new Regulation, which replaces a 2010 directive. The objective of the Regulation is to inform consumers about the use of energy products and to provide consistent information that enables consumers to make informed decision on the purchase of goods. The agreed bill calls for increased information provided by seals and suppliers who produce, sell or import products related to energy use. Other aspects of the bill's objective and subject are referred to in a series of articles. The reviews the committee received about the case were positive. With the approved bill, market market monitoring will be simpler, with increasing perspective on market products in order to achieve increased energy saving levels and thereby reduce negative environmental impacts. It will then be noted that the directive proposed to be part of the EU's measures to achieve the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. However, the situation of Iceland in energy is very much like the position of most countries involved in the EEA Treaty where the share of renewable energy here is much higher than in general. For the Commission it was noted that the obligation to register information on energy use in a central product database for manufacturing or import into the EU internal market which should facilitate consumers comparing is not considered burdensome for Icelandic companies, which are generally traders and not suppliers. Then, for energy use, a new common scale, A◯G, is to be improved by certain categories of electrical devices and light sources where an earlier scale of A++ or B and C, which are classified, has not been clearly defined. It was noted that in contrast with the European Union, the energy demand for Iceland is almost completely met by electrical energy from renewable energy sources. At the same time, it was noted to the Committee that there will be graphics to be expected but that more detailed instructions can be obtained from the product database. The committee considers it important that these instructions be available in Icelandic. The Commission feels positive that there are uniform and accessible data on energy consumption and other user characteristics that enable consumers to make informed purchase decisions just as this bill is aimed at making. In view of this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the forward adjustments. Under this opinion, write why. Senators Njáll Ísleifsson Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Ólafur Friðbjörg Elíasdóttir, Hjöláfjörgý Kristý Gunnarsson, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson. I've finished my case, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u88	A respectable president. I'm moving this committee from what? The welfare committee on bill to legalize a rural registry that is not covered by a strike-in type of work force. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by members of the Department of Social Affairs, who discussed the matter. There were reviews from the Allied Union of Iceland, Whosagainsville and the Union of Icelandic rural society. The bill suggests that there will be a new total law on working in rural areas where there is no license to strike. Such a registry covers the most necessary health and safety services for the local population so that it can be ensured. Comments on the subject revealed that the bill was employed in good consultation with key stakeholders and that material comments were not made. So the committee suggested that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under this reference work, the article "Aggressively. " Councilmen Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Árnadóttir Kolbröndnadótir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdótir, Sara Elísa Thordursson's Þórðardóttir, and Vilmiramurmurm Árnason. If I have, then, finished my speaking, most respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u89	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill of changing artist's law, No. 57/2009, about a temporary increase in labour pay and support. The point of the law is that a pandemic of crown virus has been negative to professional artistic opportunities. Depending on the potential for artists to earn money through their artistic creations, unemployment among them has increased dramatically in the epidemic. The main element of the bill is Article 1. the preliminary proposal to add up the combined jobs in 2021 temporarily from 1,600 monthly terms according to the current law of 2,150 monthly. A total increase of 550 months. By doing this, a respectable president, the number of employees on the line will be increased so that more artists will be given the opportunity to work on their arts next year. As determined by 1.g. the bill that the percentage change of jobs in 2021 will take into account the arts that have been won out in the pandemic in 2020. Therefore, stage lists and musicians are suggested to have relatively more than any increase, but other arts also have some increase. The proposal is to agree with the Union of Icelandic artists, which considered that in some of its partners, it was a survey. It is therefore suggested that the percentages of labour exchanges and fortifications to artists in 2021, according to the bill, be met by the designer's labour grants of 75 monthly wages, salary, and scholarship to 526 monthly remunerations, job salary and sponsors to 646 months' wages, job salary, and ratings to 307 months' wages, salary and musical scholarships to 315 months' salary and salary salary, and grants to 281 months' salary. A bill for the budget of 2021 suggests giving 225 billion. K. temporarily in the artist's payroll and as a part of the government's investment campaign, the effects of a pandemic crown virus on independent artists. The total cost of a government fund is shown in the 2021 budget. Remuneration changes are temporary, referring to the only distribution of the artist enterprise carried out in January 2021. A respectable president. When a meeting ban was set last March, the number of independent artists became job and jobless. This year the government has responded in many ways to assist with independent artists. The number of artists was temporarily increased from 1,600 to 2,200 months. Then a special temporary investment campaign was launched to help combat economic contractions following a pandemic crown virus. There came a 1 billion times. In part, in culture, in art, in sports, and in that, 450 million were involved. K. The artist's project fund for more support during the year beyond what was decided on in 2020. In those days, culture and art are indeed under attack. The number of unemployed individuals with academic arts has increased by 164% between years, with 30% more than the total Icelandic labour market. Five percent of artists see a severely reduced survival security in the months ahead and will find it difficult to fulfill financial obligations. To assess this effect on Icelandic art life, a team of colleagues, along with the Ministry of Social Affairs, were appointed to implement specific and specific measures by the government to deal with conditions of culture and art. The group has submitted proposals and proposed 10 operations. Among them is the increase in the number of artists, as I recommend here. There is also an arrangement to improve the loss of pay on an independent basis and the proposal has now been implemented in the financial and economic secretary's bill for loss of income. There, independent artists and culturally linked companies, who have been exposed to a major drop in income, may be able to cover the cost of operating. An independent working artist's environment is constantly under consideration. In the middle of an economic crisis, the current prime minister was a minister of education and culture. There the decision to make a permanent increase in wages was made from 1,500 monthly to 1,600. In fact, an increasing supply for education in art, especially by the production of Iceland's Art University, makes it possible for more people to pursue art education and do their job. Significant increase is seen in artists'job salary applications. We must act, and we are now developing proposals for changing artists'crafts and artistic to-dos. A respectable president. The donation of this bill takes yet another step in supporting artists in the time of crown virus. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The General and Education Committee following the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u90	Mr. President. Icelanders have recently observed many of the concerts of musicians, such as the concerting of Helgi Björn, the Salka Sól, Sigríður Thorlacius, Páll Óskar, Bubbi, the Symphonic Orches, Music Palaces, I never went south, Airwaves, and also the mutilation of theaters, and RuV along with artists'readings to name something. This is especially true during difficult times, such as those that people see in the value and importance of art. Without the art, we are close to merely meeting the simplest requirements of animal life, but now the art is at risk, at least Our artists. Because of the situation, in some cases, events that have been imposed by artists'trade have been restricted. We do not have to question the effect of such limitations on performances and concerts and annual celebrations, recordings, movie shows, and art shows, as well as on various restaurants and places that offer live art of all kinds. Even funerals and weddings have been limited. Mr. President. Not only do artists make life worthwhile but they are a class that usually gives their jobs when there is much trouble. Whether in joy, sorrow, recreation, or the use of the spirit, we rely on these fine people. But now we need artists. Their work foundation is limited and, in some cases, broken or disappeared. If the art is to be lived, the rest of us must do something. That is why it is most enjoyable to increase the number of artists. Artists, designers, artists, stage artists, musicians, and musicians are paid for various classes. At the beginning of this epidemic, I came up with the radical idea of a ten - fold artistic payer. This bill isn't that far off, but the number of artists I celebrate is still increasing. I wanted to take bigger steps, and I wanted to do it right from the start of this epidemic. I simply had the idea that we would reach the number of people who are independent of culture in Iceland. You can find that number at the Hagroom, and this is about 3,500 people. For this spring's increase in artists, 325 artists received an artist's salary. 325 received an artist's salary before their increase in spring, and now their numbers are only growing again. Of course, we are far from the number I suggested. I saw an opportunity to maintain a powerful art life, making it possible for even more artists and artists to survive their arts. This operation for the 10 times the number of artists'wage is radical, large, but how big is it? Such a procedure would cost 6.5 billion. To put that number in context, there is a 1 percent increase in unemployment by 2,000. And that costs what, Mr. President? Yeah, 6.5 billion. It takes 6.5 billion on unemployment to have 1% of the workers out of work. This is the same amount that would cost ten times the number of artists. This suggestion to increase the number of artists would, of course, reduce unemployment, but it also contributes to the growing number of artists. Art activity has a variety of effects. There are secondary jobs, there are activities that require more jobs, indirect jobs, secondary jobs, and, in turn, income in the form of taxes. So this is a suggestion that would simply create a coin. We need to keep in mind that artistry is a prize. It's not compensation, it's pay for work. A person who receives an artist's salary needs to report. He needs to review what he's been doing while he was enjoying the art team. There's a salary here, an arrangement that's given us a great deal, and we're supposed to promote it. I know that a minister is doing it with this bill, but I want to sharpen the government for good works and to do better. This increase in the number of artists on top of the increase in spring production is temporary, as shown in the bill, and I think that we should have this permanently, this increase, this increase, this increase, and we should increase more in the present state. The number it would cost to take these big steps in itself is not that big, not compared to the numbers we're working with in this room. The budget is 1,000 billion. The land production is 3,000 billion, and we are talking about a variety of measures involved in subsiding company information. We have a partial improvement. We have a bridge loan. In all the large context, this number, 6.5 billion, is not large, therefore, based on the situation here. I reiterate that this saves the state money in return and prevents artists from being forced to go on unemployment benefits. I reiterate that a 1 percent increase in unemployment will be the same as increasing the number of artists in artists. I'd like to keep this idea of making it even more alive. Not to be overlooked is the noble value of artistic creation. Art magnifies man, makes life more varied and colorful, and that is especially valuable. It's the least of the artists that put Iceland on the map year after year in the world's minds. But I'd like to take this opportunity, since I'm talking to a minister of education and talking about art, and reminding myself again and again, I don't know how many speeches I've had to think about, that we have to bet on the TV and movie sector. Especially in those times when we need a job. It's 20,000,25,000 Icelanders out of work. Icelanders are well qualified in the reserved sector called television films and movies. There is a great demand for material that can be recorded in Icelandic nature, material that would be used for Icelandic human resources, technology, etc. This opportunity I feel like a lethal instrument for Iceland, that it will be part of Iceland's defined professional policy to be betting on television and films. It's a huge market out in the world, and we don't need a large tile of that market to make it count here. We now see, when there are limitations in many countries at the time of recording of various materials, that there is a huge demand for television and movies. Not many people are making it. I held a number of talks this spring and said we should use summer and make Iceland a more attractive environment for this sector. But they did not listen. This article was not asking for anything in particular. The TV and movie sector was asking us to raise the reimbursement rate of production costs, and from what? From 25% to 35%. That would have made the difference, but the government did not trust in it. It was an opportunity the government missed, but it's not too late, and I want to reiterate my appeal to the Minister to use himself within the government, to take this step, to raise the payment rate from 25% to 35%. That would call here a wide range of projects on the scene of the television and movie sector. The reimbursement system works so that the government fund does not pay a dollar until it has gained much more. I know that some government officials and even politicians are overwhelmed by the reimbursement of production costs. Yeah, but we don't until there's quite a lot more money in there. Getting big projects on the TV and movie sectors makes up jobs, especially in the areas we need them, because what makes this person mad when he's filming TV and film programs? He's counting on hotels. He's counting on restaurants. He's counting on tourists, technical skills. He is counting on a class of people who so far may have served in a travel service. It's, by the permission of the President, an idea that we should resolve. This makes jobs, traffic, tax revenues. All around, it's an idea of a Caddy that I don't understand why we haven't been doing this a long time ago. I've compared this opportunity to Eyjafjökul. I mean, after the last collapse, it was the eruption of Eyjafjörður, which introduced Iceland to the tourist world. In this crash, we cannot rely on ourselves and should not rely on volcanic eruptions, of course not. We're supposed to rely on innovation and art. That's why the Conspiracy has emphasized that we make the film industry a major industry in Iceland. But in order to do that, we're going to have to reimburse the projector and multiply the film fund. With extensive injection into this sector, we form large increases in our activities and in such activities, jobs and income, especially in the sector now suffering and in the region. These projects require a great deal of knowledge and use in hotels, along with transportation, restaurants, guidance, technical work, and, of course, all of the arts that will be created. This will be the case with future tourists because a number of studies show that there is a direct link between travel to Iceland and the TV and films listed here. We already have examples, unfortunately, Mr. President, that we have missed billions of dollars of jobs, e.g. To Ireland because they offer better than we do. What a competition it is for those privileges to be given to one another! I know, I have a good relationship with people in this sector, that we have lost jobs in Ireland, including Because the reimbursement rate here is 25%, not 35%. When it comes to attracting assignments, it does not take much to win the competition. This is one of the measures I'd like to mention in this discussion, even though we're talking about an artist's salary. Let's do this together. I'd think it was the transnational will of all classes to do better when it comes to television and movies. And finally, Mr President, I would like to reiterate that this step in the bill, to increase the number of artists, is good. In fact, the prime minister, when the artists were increasing in spring, said that this had been done even. by the discussion that we had at that time. And that's good, but take a little bigger step, Mr President, because it's an idea that makes you driving around, taxpaying, and making art. There's nothing else that blocks us here than we do here ourselves. This would be a smart way to become a professional when we are desperate for jobs. We've got an artist ready to work. We have these excellent artists in all these different fields, whether they are designers or artists, writers, stage artists, musicians, composers. We have all these wonderful people, but they need opportunities and opportunities to live on their art. Therefore, the government is to come in a more handsome way than this one is. There will be a general failure here, and when the market has to report that the public should enter with all its power and correct that marketing failure. That's why I call it we're taking bigger steps in this regard. This would improve the work environment and increase the number of persons who can survive their art. At the same time, I think we should also take up a little debate about raising the artist industry ourselves. The last time I knew, they were more than 400,000 bucks. and I think, of course, the key should be to raise the artist's sum so that it reaches at least up to the median pay in the country, which is about 650,000. Mr. President. It's the art and culture that makes us Icelanders. Artists have been on our side in these critical times, but they have always been ours. Now let's stand with artists when they're testing. That does not mean doing this in a more distant or beautiful future. [[The president calls.]] Time is now. Let's spend money making money and make excellent art at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u91	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of education for the past. The budget bill expects to give 225 billion. K. in view of the virus epidemic, the artist's pay fund is temporarily reimbursed as shown. So next year, the combined number of jobs will be increased from 1,600 monthly to 2,150. This is clear, and we know that all arts have been damaged by the epidemic, and the worst situation has affected the lives of musicians and stagers. The bill assumes that this will be taken into consideration, making this a reasonable, reasonable arrangement. I support this increased contribution in the budget bill, which is considered normal in the light of the circumstances. An artist's salary is a salary that artists can apply for every year. What we know about artists'wages is from 1991. Today's legislation is beginning in 2009. However, the distribution of pay on the part of the public to artists has a much longer history and a much larger arrangement has been made for the entire 20th century, either by members of the general body or by agents designated by them. The arrangement was controversial and was the contract of a salary that went into effect in 1991, to a great extent improved by objective practices, both during the application and the distribution of the salary. The salaries each time make it possible for several groups of men and women to devote themselves to their art. It is a regular feature of an artist's salary that will be discussed each year. Sadly, that discussion is often negative. Some view that this and the other artist were assigned to artists for several months. More often than not, there is a group of people who are subscribers at the job salary. The talk about artists'wages has been a tendency to become personal. In many cases, they are assigned to prominent individuals, and people often have opinions about their work benefits and their value. Some even speak in terms of artistry. They also use the comment system in social media to attract artists, and often in those days the talk about artists'salary in that area is critical, as is the case with many other things that appear there. This discussion has caused some fine artists to hold back from applying for artists, especially for their families and children. Of course, people are affected when they are attacked publicly just for the temporary award of artists. According to this year's budget, the artist's fee is 407,000. and the salary is a contractor's salary. Then there are pension payments, holidayes, and taxes. It's hard to be a young artist who's starting. For example, it is not a lot of money from a publication, especially in the case of authors who are playing a field. The Icelandic book market is too small to support professional authors by itself. Remember, the author such as Halldór Laxness was most of the highest poet's grant on the part of the government. Other writers we boast of their work with the support of artists; Davíð Stefánsson, Þórðarson, Jóhannes úr Katlar, Steinn Steinarr, Guðmundur Hagalín, Tómas Guðmundsson, and others. And don't forget, the Icelandic authors are writing for one of the smallest languages in the world. Their role is very important to the Icelandic language, which has been under attack for what we know. In fact, much of the work of a writer is voluntary. For the sake of his work, he is often called on radio, on television, in elementary schools, in universities, and in seminars, and usually without approval. With regard to the stage arts, the market is small and exhibiting few. I think it's safe to say that the artists are at the top of a group of low-payers. On the other hand, many people are shy and probably not comfortable when the brand is their own. Also, it is not pleasant to be denied artistic wages, denied distribution. This, in turn, can cause the person to stop creating. I think people in general are positive about artists and artists. A large smaller part of the community media comment system is not to be controlled and should not be. The amount of money paid by the government is returned in various ways by artists. They form jobs around the lists, remember that, and do not forget. The article provides valuables, books are sold, arts are sold, shows and concerts, visitors attend the country for artists, and is the group larger than many suspects. It is important that the artist's performance be good. As the fund's further demonstrations grow, public awareness of the importance of artists is enhanced. There are, for example. Not everyone who knows that the fund is also a replacement in this article. At the minimum, 5% of each fund is distributed to artists who have not been previously assigned. It's important. In addition, it is emphasized that distributions reflect all the foolish creations that take place in each field. In a budget board and in my work there, we often hear the term national product, especially now when the debt of state is rising rapidly. They are often discussed with us in debt as a proportion of land production. Various sectoral activities contribute to the land production; the fishing route, tourism, industry, agriculture, etc. All kinds of services are related to industry, such as agriculture and fishing roads. The same is true of culture and art. Keep in mind, then, that all sectors support one another. It would be interesting to see the figures on which parts of a list are actually in our country's production. He's a lot bigger than men think. Culture and art are important sectors and play an important role in the economy. It should not be forgotten that no matter what form it is, it is valuable to promote culture and art. We can't measure everything in national production and money, Mr. President. Art and culture have a positive influence in the community, which is an increasing well - being of individuals. For example, we have seen the importance of art, music, in these critical times when we are going through the viral epidemic. Musicers have shortened our hours on the screen and are invaluable in the isolation that many of us live in because of the virus epidemic. These types of donations, such as artists'wage, are not the only means to support the article, the tax appeals can be a positive way. Thus, companies defending money for art and culture should be permitted to withdraw it from income with a particular amount of stress. That has even been true. The United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Scientific Organization, UNESCO, has been proposed. Mr. President. Finally, the work of all of us here at the General Assembly should be together to support ways of increasing the arts and cultures of the economy. It's a national advantage.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u92	A respectable president. I wanted to draw a little attention to what I feel to be a false subject in this discussion. It's an artist's salary now. These are simply innovations in the art field. There's nothing more complicated than that. The requirements are exactly the same as when applying for innovation levels in other areas, such as we have a innovation scholarship for technology development and for basic research, and this is a similar process for follow-up and installation and all kinds of ornaments. I was just going to mention this quick, because let's not underestimate the impact of art, especially innovation, both the economic and social effects of a list. For example, South Korea, a country that made the decision to make the art of exporting goods, and it was the so-called Korean or ŠK-poop, which is now, two decades later, a $5 billion-dollar exporter. And so let me put that number in Icelandic, that's $682 billion, that export product from South Korea, on account of the official decision to make art an exporter. This is the potential for innovation in the art field, just as in technology and basic research and the like. I just want to draw attention to it because it has been so negative to use an artist's salary as beautiful as it is today. Actually, they're innovations on the list. There is nothing more complex, nothing more or less than that, but there is tremendous importance and opportunity for future benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u93	A respectable president. I want to thank you for a very good discussion, and I just wanted to review some of the factors. Senators have been talking here. At least I miss it. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson is not here in the conference hall to review the actions we have been working on, the government, because they are very extensive. Hv. One senator mentioned recently that he wanted to see that the artists'wages went up to 6.5 billion dollars. I'd like to point him out, but I don't want to go to any competition for numbers here, that our revenue strengths, estimated into our culture, and our art life, are rated at 9 billion. Thus, we are reaching out for this position, even though it is very delicate. In time, we may need to look at other measures, but they are not clear at this time. I want to point 'em, too. A senator is expected to take the supreme action. The prime minister and I presented over a month in ten teams. First, there are measures related to survival security. There are four operations. First of all, it's the income drop. Second, we are increasing individual assistance to those in this sector because not only in Iceland but also elsewhere in Europe, people who have been operating independently have not fallen under this traditional system, we have extended the part-change process, which has been used by many, and then we've developed a significant artistic gain at the beginning of the pandemic, with an increase of 38%. Our next presentation of marketing measures will show us how we can better promote culture in spite of a meeting ban. This work has been started, and the results are very interesting. We're going to make better use of the technology, the flow squad, and something like that, and I'm really hoping that we'll be able to put the culture into the winter. An example of what we've been doing is to provide support for the Iceland Airwes Music Festival that was held last weekend. Also, we are making long - term improvements, considering how we can strengthen all the features around our artists. Finally, I'd like to mention that we are planning to set up a platform center and a team will be started with the goal of setting up a music center. All of this is ten measures when we've taken all of this together and I can't see better than Iceland is the state that has the best support for culture and sports in the North countries. I'd like to state that there's some action being made on sports right now. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson also mentioned the film industry, and I missed a little in his language that we introduced a very ambitious movie policy in the fall. There are also operations on ten teams, and there are two things I wanted to specifically mention there. It is on the other hand that contributions to the film fund are increasing, and then the government decided to set up a new TV investment fund, which has been the fight case of those who operate in movies and TV shows. We are putting over half a billion people there in connection with the investment campaign. These are ten operations and I'm not going to review them all here. - It's nice to see you. A member of the council here again, since I have been giving a very extensive talk about all the procedures we are going to take. - I'd like to mention the development of the movie mall. We have also been working on practical suggestions and how we are going to promote all international presentations. I'd also like to mention that the members of the Parliament are concerned that an artist's view might be better. I can make you happy. Councilmen who view the artists and those who enjoy them have been improving. The Icelandic community has become much more positive than it was to artists, and I think it's a great development, and it's long overdue. Sometimes these things take time, and I think we're always getting more aware that art is important to us every day, not just at times, but every day. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson made the decision to make culture an export. I can make you happy. A senator by my discovery of 25 years ago when I was a student of South Korea. Then it was quite popular. I can't say I saw it coming that this was gonna be that giant exporter, but it's happened. I agree with what. A senator's decision was made, and he lived by that decision, strengthening all the details around the country's arts. Not surprisingly, in South Korea, a well-known civilization has been successful. The same can be said when they decided that they were going to be number one for high technology. It was a decision made by the government that was supported by the commercial world, the interaction with professional life, and the government. They've had a great deal of success, but they're not as good because they may lack more diversity in small and medium-sized enterprises. But I've always enjoyed looking east because they're really good at this. Finally, I thank you for a very good discussion. The Third World agrees that we are making right decisions by presenting this bill. Not only have we been providing a bill but we have taken on very extensive and effective actions in behalf of art. I agree with members of Congress who have mentioned that it has been long since the time for these actions to take action. What a grand investment this is and what it is for a long time!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u94	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does she support the rise in reimbursement rate due to movie and TV types?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u95	A respectable president. I believe we should do everything we can to support export and support filming. I don't think it's impossible to raise the payback rate. I'm not gonna take it off, or at the exact moment here, right now. What I think is. A senator also has only to look at the fact that filming has been a big appeal in Iceland. It's not unique because what the remuneration rate is. It is also related to the development of the currency. Because he has been getting sick, he has seen a marked increase in the pursuit of filming in Iceland. But I feel that we should always look for ways to increase the production of films and cultural issues, for that is a turning point in history. Senator. In a new film policy, where we are introducing new economists that have not been as accessible before, we show how useful it is to increase film production in Iceland, and that is truly so. There are many secondary jobs involved. A talk was also presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator says there are a lot of people who visit the country because films or programs are recorded in Iceland. Thus, the resulting currency pay is very extensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u96	Mr. President. V.E.G. Minister says she's willing to do whatever it takes to support movie and television. Also, it plays out arguments that I agree with, it's profitable, and there's a lot of mass effects coming from having a multi-changing project on film and television. That's why I don't realize why I'm at the highest level. The minister and the advance party are not prepared to take the step of raising the payoff rate from 25% to 35%. That's what the sector's been calling for number one, two and three. The movie and television sector has said he wants to help us. Do this. Why don't we just do it because it's so profitable? I know it's the highest. Minister knows it's profitable, and it makes sense. We would get more money in the box than we would take off it, we would get more jobs, we'd get more art, they'd make money, we'd get taxes. It's an idea that's going against everyone, but there's aground on the government's unwillingness to raise the payback rate. We can do that after noon. It's such a simple operation, going from 25% to 35%. This isn't space science. Why not? Why not now? Now we're out of business and jobs and tax returns. If a minister agrees with me, there's bound to be a beach somewhere else. Is that from the Ministry of finance? Is it by the left green? I don't know, but I don't understand why we don't make this decision. Is it the highest. Minister of birth that'll stop this? What's the problem? Why don't we do this because this is such a great idea? This is a great idea. [[The president calls.]] Changing one number, 25% to 35%, would attract immediate variety of interesting and profitable projects. I know it's the highest. Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u97	A respectable president. I'd like to mention that during film policy until 2030, we are also discussing how we can enhance the competitiveness of the recycling system. So even though the decision has not yet been made, it is not meant to be made in the future. I agree with what. A senator, the political and social challenges we now face, and the next 6, 12 and 18 months are all about to create employment. Everything we can do to make new jobs will be worth it. What we've been doing these days, the government, is creating an economic bridge over this truly unusual period. What's going to happen is that we'll see how strong an Icelandic society is. We've seen how powerful a health system we have. We've seen how powerful the education system is. Now we are also developing a culture policy, and there is movie policy. Action 6 in policy has to do with what's presented in the case at any given time. Senator. I'm very much in favor of making new and exciting jobs. Also, I would like to mention that one of our plans is to have a university degree in filmmaking. So there is a lot to do with the movies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u98	A respectable president. This body of Parliamentary resolutions requires a review of Allied sources to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee No. 168/2020, which measures the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, 2019/631, from 17 April 2019 to set the rules for the implementation of carbon dioxide emissions for new people and new vehicles, light employment equipment and the breakdown of Regulation No. 443/2009 and No. 510/2011. The protocol, which was included in the contract with the decision No. 168/2020, has contributed to the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from the motor vehicle in the EEA region between steps up to 2030. The Paris Treaty set the goal of maintaining the global climate rise from the industrial revolution below 2°C. In view of this, it is considered inevitable that the transport system of all Member States will be tolerated so that carbon footprints will become lower and possibly nothing at present. It was considered necessary to reinforce the targets and measures required to reduce carbon dioxide emissions recommended in Regulation No. 443/2009 and No. 510/2011, in terms of private and light vehicle pollution, The new Regulation covers the values of both regulations, i.e. both for private vehicles and light employment equipment. In preparation for the implementation of the Regulation in the European Union the European Commission of Economic and Social Affairs and the Community Committee of the Union were consulted. The design sets out a standard for the release of carbon dioxide from new vehicles as well as the related duties of the manufacturer of the vehicles in such materials. There are also rules on the various manufacturer's sources to achieve these goals. Change of traffic law No. 77/2000 to add extra charge to the manufacturer of the vehicle. Thus, the induction calls for a change of law here on the land. However, this change in law will not have any effect in the country where drivers are not available to distribute inland. Manufacturers of less than 1,000 vehicles registered each year in the European Economic Area will be on the 4 mg basis. 2.g. The Regulation in general is the exception of the extra-resolution fee. In this way, the independent producers of less than 10,000 new vehicles or 22,000 new light equipment registered in the European Economic Areas every year may request, according to Article 10. The Regulation shall agree the details of the Commission's Regulation with the requirements of the implementation of the Regulation. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u99	V.E.G. President. I measure here for a bill to correct a change in the defense of avalanches and landslides, No. 49/1997. The bill was employed in the Environment and Resource Ministry, having consulted with Iceland's Weather Office. There have also been indications from various sources, especially from the Weather Room, rural areas, police services, and General Agents. Ordinary plans for the legislation and billing were published in the government's consultations for introductions and comments. Time and again, events will remind us of the woes that may be caused by torrential floodwaters. Increasing emphasis has been placed on defenses from the storms that swept through the country at the end of 2019 C.E., and the avalanche on the West at the beginning of this year. Following this, the government ordered a task force for building wood, including in order to speed up the building of the apocalyptic activities in the affected areas. On the basis of the proposed earlier campaign group, there is expected to be a significant rise in the surface of the floodwaters and intensification of monitoring and funding of the administrative committee in the budget of 20213/42025, which is now being discussed here at the council. From 2021 onward, an estimated 2.7 billion will be expected. Annually to protect against natural threat, this is an annual increase of 1.6 billion. from what is now. Is the goal of building above - watered weather to be completed in 2030. In addition to the build-up of defence workers, it is important to consider the rule of defense against the floodwaters. The bill of this is designed primarily to enhance the clarity of laws on protection against avalanches and landslides, taking into account the experience of the act of the law. The bill suggests that targets of the original legislation are set out in a bill that became the law of No. 49/1997, to ensure the safety of people in their households with regard to the risk of surface waters. It is cut off in the bill that Iceland's surveillance centre with geographic and climate conditions, with regard to risks from surface waters, reaches urban areas, although weather services can reach the whole of the country. It is then specified that monitoring of the risk of surface flood areas is the responsibility of their operator, which is in accordance with Regulation No. 636/2009 on the risk assessment of avalanches in skiing areas, and in accordance with the way these events are done abroad. It is suggested that the legislation be added to the legislation on the review of the risk balance after the building of superfluous measures and laid down certain restrictions associated with an organization in the outback areas. It is also assumed that the switch to danger areas in the risk categories provided in Regulation No. 505/2000 about the risk assessment due to surface flood and category and utilisation of danger areas. Then a change is proposed in accordance with the P.P. regulations, No. 82/2008, in terms of changing the role of the Public Defense Committee. The bill suggests that legalisation will be the principle stated in the Regulation that defenses and purchases are primarily involved in an apartment building or housing that is affected by defenses. In accordance with the procedure, it is also suggested that the Convention be charged with a time of innovation because of the possibility of a building was purchased or taken into possession. The bill of the bill is a new measure aimed at the owners of a house or a home stay in houses when there is an inconsistencies with the terms of a judicial period. The purpose of the arrangement is a warning effect, as it is important that people do not stay in houses at a time of danger so that the security of people, owners, and others such as police and rescue workers will be assured. Finally, the name of the law will be a further act of defense against a flood that has been used as a synonym for avalanches and landslides. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u100	Madam President. Thank you very much. Environment and resource minister for the contributions of this bill, which is a review of older legislation with a new name, a new act of defense against the surface. I'm sure it's time to reconsider, and I wondered if it would have been a little further. We know that these laws are not old, our attitude toward avalanches changed completely after the great floodwaters, and the tragedy on the west of 1995, where 34 people died. This opened the public's eyes to the danger, even in which we live, in towns and villages in Iceland. During the 20th century, however, the flood of snow has extended into rows of people of the land. At the 20th and 59th centuries, 107 people were killed in urban, urban, and urban areas. And I'm asking the highest. Minister in light of this bill, they're pressing on, they're just talking about urban areas, and they're talking about houses, not houses like in the old law, and what about these regulations and houses are about farms, e.g. The stables, do they fall under this law? And what about vacation areas that are often in or on the edge of urban areas, even ski areas as well? There's a law on it in this bill if the Minister wanted to come in with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. So, there's no evidence here that there is a change in the operation of the law. As the law is being carried out today and as it has been done on the basis of their regulations, the main areas of water here are directed to an apartment building and are actually repeating it, particularly with the aims of the law set up and based on the work of the original law, that this applies in particular to an apartment building. However, it is clearly stated that if a fortress is built to protect the population, it will lead to flooding, for example. that other buildings can include such buildings. But it is also important to realize that there is a distinct difference between what is involved and when it comes to the assessment of the risk of the flood. It is possible to go to both urban and rural areas and to do just what is done in the Weather Room. But this is not a change to the operation of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u102	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Regarding this bill: Never considered, I allow myself to ask, that there would be an attitude on a more broad range of functions, i.e. that it wasn't just a flood? We know that we may be affected by natural disasters of various kinds and are known to be examples of intense storms, even tornadoes, and so on. It was not considered that this would be the broader definition of nature or damage, e.g. from a flood of waters, as we have seen? The role of the Weather Room that will handle this is then further defined, except that rural communities are being monitored for ski areas that may be considered to be a matter of opinion because they are often in the edge of the nest, whether or not they can be found together. The law also says that a community is a owner of defenses and is responsible for their maintenance. Will rural society be met in this respect because it is an enormous construction? If there is damage, what? After that, the above - mentioned fee is in place. They have been critical of how that price has been paid. There were 13.6 billion in cash in 2018, per federal account. This year, the empire is likely to collect about 2.7 billion dollars. ... inanoverdraft. Is it secure, my highest. Minister, that there may be power in this, and a tribute to be paid for defences?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u103	V.E.G. President. There's been a lot of debate about whether we don't have to get a better grip on other types of nature, and here is why. A senator, including a member of the U.S. a flood of water. There are more types of nature than that. I would like to point out that, in force, there has been a preliminary law on the value of the 31st September 2022 law, which allows the use of funds from surfaces to contribute to the cost of hazard assessment by volcanic eruptions, floods, and avalanches. It is, in fact, a preparatory work there to assess the risks of these types of nature so that it can be built in the future on the possibility of setting financial resources to protect them as well. However, it has been generally agreed that the funds that go out of a treasure are for the lives of people and for them primarily in an apartment home. In fact, this bill is presented to enhance the work being done under the law. Hv. A senator also came into the financing. As I said in the lead-in, financial program, 1.6 billion dollars have been guaranteed. Each year to these matters, they are added to an already existing amount of 1.1 billion dollars, i.e. A total of 2.7 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u104	President. I'm glad I'm doing it. Minister has submitted this bill, and I believe there's a lot here to improve these matters. The thing is going to come into trouble. The Environment and Transport Committee, where we will review some of the information presented here, both in the case of the highest level. Ministers as well as lawyers. That my knowledge is that there are just so many things to consider in these matters, both the way the project has been done so far and whether we should expand it or whatever it is. I've looked for it, like a dog. Guðjón GulDönsson, how the ski zones enter these issues, where the assessment is in one place but the monitoring of others, let alone the population of the rural population of the skiing areas in their areas, what demands are elsewhere, and where their rural communities have to live, etc. The committee will probably settle over this and work out a solution, how to behave. The lives of people are more natural than in homes and small villages. People need a collective view of their daily lives. Here, however, there is an opportunity to take a look at these matters. There are many good views that have been expressed. If this is a law that I sincerely hope to do, then the treatment given to the case on the committee will be greatly improved. But I just wanted to mention the things I think we have to sit over in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u105	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in social security law, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes, information and monitoring clearances. The movers in addition to me are Sæland Gourand and the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par. 2 mg. Thirty-nine. The law goes away. 2.g. 2nd and 3rd mg. 40. g. The law will fall away. Section 3. Instead of the words "studentsmen, "" saluters, " or "messengers, " in the 1st case. 41 st. The law comes: the candidate or the employee. The bill was submitted to a 149th legislature and a 150th legislator Council (System 72) and is now submitted unchanged. The bill suggests changes to specific protocols on social security law, No. 100/2007. In particular, legal regulations allowing the State's National Insurance Office to provide information on the employer's income or the paygiver under the law that the written agreements of both parties are obligatory to take part in the treatment of a case. Then the applicant will not be allowed to show off because of the lack of needed information that is attributable to his or her partner. It is the assessment of the transporters that the relevant laws on information go too far in the violation of privacy of candidates and credit recipients and the right to help them with sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, poverty, and similar incidents, as per the Code 76.g. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. That principle is set out in Article 3. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons to respect inborn human dignity and self - control, including the freedom to make personal decisions and their independence. Is the assessment of transporters that the requirements of the current social security law are burdensome and overcrowding an individual having the rights of a contract to obtain information from a mate and on the weight of a person who has to lean on the neglect of a mate in order to perform his or her duties. The law thus allows a postponement of decision and payment because of factors that will not be traced to the candidate or to the paygiver himself. By references to history received by a health committee during the last assembly, this should be noted on the basis of Article 43. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007, the U.S.A. can obtain information necessary to enforce the law from the sources mentioned in the law without the arrival of their mate. If we take this unconvinced case, it's my opinion that there's a direct violation of human rights. It's the law to add third party into the matter of microenergy donors. It is obligatory and obligatory to the partners of the relevant organisation who are applying for disability benefits at the State Insurance Institute and charges so immensely that if a mate does not follow all the applications, it can be denied to the donor's disability application, even if he has received a pension if he has received an application. It breaks, I believe, human rights and personal protection. As a result, this is by no means meant to be in law. When this case was presented in the last assembly, the Qualification Society made a comment. By permission of the president, the court says: The European Community of Iceland (IBI) has developed a bill to correct the change in social security law, No. 100/2007 (expansive and monitoring clearance), 72. BIA agrees with the operators of the bill that the surveillance warrants of the insurance agency and the information related to individuals go too far when the third party, the employer's partner, is being involved in a case that is not actually linked to it. As the government's insurance agency (TR) suggests, it is a budgetary mate who can influence the calculation of the pension paid by the Agency. The only data TR uses to view the applicant's capital pay and his or her partner are the tax returns of parties. Remuneration is the only income of a mate that can affect pension and realize that the TR is not a reason for demanding information from a spouse or postponing cases because of lack of information from a mate. According to 43 st. Social security laws vary, including The tax authorities are obliged to provide TR information to the extent that it is necessary to enforce the law. Is it clear that the TR can request tax returns directly from the tax authorities, if necessary, and so do not require the arrival of the partners of pensioners to be paid by the Agency. So many of them were spoken of by the Corporate Community. That tells us the whole story. At the same time, the government's insurance agency sent a review, and it clearly states, clearly, that the only reason the insurance agency wants to keep this in is for a financial mate. It's completely incomprehensible in the present arrangement because no one goes to the micro-energy pension without getting their tax report and the location they can get information about capital pay is in the tax report. So having this authority so broad in the law, in the context of the information that they already have, is unnecessary. I'm afraid it's an ugly smell of the law to have this warrant for information inside that goes so far as to be in violation of the personal protection laws. I don't think there's much more to say on this subject, and I really hope that we'll see to it now, once and for all, that this warrant will be released. It does not take a cent, not a dollar, to accept this change of law. But it makes it a better social security law. It will not be in the section that violates the social rights and that I also consider human rights, even violating the United Nations Convention on the issues of disabled people. It is intolerable that an institution such as the government insurance agency is trying to protect it from having something inside the law to try to convince themselves or the legislators that they need this authority to get some information that they already have and that they automatically receive. We were far from getting involved with a marriage mate and asking a prospective mate to the disability - pensioner. But at the time when these laws were set, these laws as I would say, they were agreed in haste. After the law was accepted and they got involved here, Pirantar cleaned up and apologized for the mistakes in this law. But no one else accepted responsibility and tried to turn these laws away. And as noted above, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, Pirate, is the head of this bill and therefore agrees and is involved in changing the laws that were at the time quickly agreed, without sufficient observation, absolutely meaningless. I really hope that this is going to go out because it's ugly and ugly to have that kind of thing in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u106	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change of damage laws, No. 50/1993, with subsequent changes, abduction. Besides me on the bill, I'm Inga Sæland. It reads: - Uh-huh. - After the 27th. The law's coming up with a new article, along with a headline, as follows: It's a gift. A charge should be given to those who employ lawsuits in recognition of damage due to physical injury or in order to demand payment on damage due to physical injury, despite the conditions of 1 mg. 126.g. the management of private matters is not met, as the overall income of the individual has been below the average total income during the second year of the calendar year according to figures in Iceland's Habitat. Otherwise, there is a general rule of puerperism. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ The subject of this matter is found in the bill presented to the 150th legislature, 430, but not to be paid. That bill also discussed the basis for regular updates of money damage laws. Rather, it is better to put matters into the separate primary places. This bill, therefore, is merely a talk about the pursuit of damages. The subject of the bill is that the main element to the same as in the previously proposed bill of the 150th legislation is the change in the management of the individual's financial situation. This will make small formal adjustments. It is often a heavy burden for individuals to appeal to judicial matters because of the physical damage they have suffered. Thus, they may prefer to accept the compensations that insurance companies may initially offer and yield to the rights they feel are theirs. In order to stem this business problem and thereby improve the security of those who have suffered physical harm, it is suggested that they be able to appeal matters in recognition of liability or pay damages attributable to physical damage by emptying their rights to failure. In the general rules for abduction per law No. 91/1991 on the treatment of personal matters, in accordance with Regulation No. 45/2008 on the conditions of the advising and the practice of the Addiction Committee, are under strict conditions for the poor financial standing of candidates for the granting of adduction. With the bill, it is suggested that, in terms of the types of judicial cases, the overall income of the applicant in the second year of the calendar was covered under the average total income of the country in that same year according to numbers from Iceland's Hagues Office. In 2019, the average total recovery according to the ratings of Economics was 5,677,000 dollars. Thus, the new rule applies to those with a low income, although these are higher than the current income criteria of the aforementioned Regulation. The elements of the bill are in accordance with 3 mg. 126.g. the management of private matters requiring that abduction be added to what is recommended in other laws. Apart from the general conditions for abduction at 1 mg. 126.g. The laws mentioned above apply to XX. section one of the same guidelines for abjection on the basis of the instructions given in the bill. As mentioned at the outset, this bill was measured at the last legislature, Council 150. That bill also contained a case that has already been recommended, i.e. to increase the amount of damage laws that have been lost and that are not nearly half of what they should be under law. On the treatment of the bill at the last council, ASI sent a headline, which states under the permission of a president: The European Union of Iceland gives strong support to the viewpoints this bill is based on the indicator control of damage measures, and it believes that the bill contributes to the primary objective of damage damage damage to the damage to the damage done to the damage done to the target. - It was true of the first bill on the rise in index criteria of damage repair. For advising, it says under the permission of a president: ▪ In terms of an unprovable demand for body ions, ASI is justified, that there is considerable room for a person's resources to be cleared, whether it is a damage case or not. ASI believe, however, that it is not advisable to eliminate completely from criteria 1.mg. 126.g. Personal laws, but this can contribute to unprovoked lawsuits, and can inhibit agreements and reconciliations within and outside the court. If we take it together and figure out what the situation is like today, we'll aim for a person's average income in 2019, 5,677,000 dollars. As is the case today, it is in relation to a different amount, as the word puts it in the information on failure: ▪ When evaluating the cost of the applicant's pay for the financial status of the applicant, consideration should be given to providing a pool for the calculation of income tax and the answer and capital gains not to exceed the total sum. Thirty-two-four thousand. If the applicant is to be married or married, it is to take into account a mate's income and only a total of a year's income should be taken into account. 5,594,000. When the applicant is under 18 years of age, the combined income of the parent should be taken into consideration. Increased limit of normal should be taken at around time. 414,000 for each child under 18 years, including Step-and-foetal children who live with the applicant or who feed most of the longer for them. In between, there's a really wide gap. If we can figure out what we're talking about in earnings, then we can all make money, we can figure out a income tax and an outback and we can't make money, we can't go over 3.7 million. A k., which is just over 300,000 bucks. per month. If we put this into practice in connection with the income of a married couple, the total will be under 300,000 dollars. Thus, there are very few individuals who can make good use of the means to make use of it. And if they get past these centres of income, they take on all sorts of barriers that are falling, it will be very difficult for them to get a nurse. Sadly, the situation has changed dramatically, so how people who are involved in accidents are able to defend themselves in court to insurance companies. Most people are unaware of this, if they have accidents, in what process things are going on. If a person is exposed to severe physical injury and needs surgery and rehabilitation, and otherwise, it may take a long time. And when things finally start, and they negotiate damages, it may have been up to three, four years. In that case, the individual's financial situation is usually ruined. The process must first be taken out if he had a job, employment rights for labor in sickness. Then you have to apply for day-to-day money from a insurance agency or a rehabilitation system, and everyone knows that the process of many people goes into disability and that everyone knows that they're responsible for half of what they used to be. All of this causes an individual's financial situation to get worse and worse. Sadly, the fact is that this position is useful to insurance companies. They use it and make it impossible for people who want to fight and want to fight. They must eat and agree to the assessment of the food companies that the insurance companies offer, along with their own lawyer. It often includes the heavens and the sea between the benefits that are judged to be entitled to the person and if he could sue and get judgmental eaters who would suffer loss. As a result, lucky ones who get something for compensation may be receiving 10, 20, 30, or 40% of what they were entitled to, in comparison to 100% compensation. It sucks to know. And they may not even get anything because they have gone through the motions. You can apply for a failure, and when someone is going to apply for a lack of charge in the current system, he must turn to a complex process of parishionering, so there is a set of revenues and must be filled into several boxes in order to be significant there. Of course, the most surprising and surprising thing to do is that there is a committee that evaluates whether the individual feels that he or she has a chance to win insurance companies. I'm sorry, but I've been able to tell you that the D.A. Committee called had men who were even involved in insurance companies. Of course, knowing that in order to bring a case into court, you will face a parish committee that judges whether the case is valid for judgment. It is a court of law in itself. It's amazing that we have such a system, and it's amazing how much silence there is on this system that's affecting insurance companies. At the same time that the person is fighting insurance companies and may receive compensation, they have the authority to assess the damage and deposit in a credit fund the amount that they feel will cost. They appreciate that the damage goes to 100 million, deposit it into the credit fund, but they may pay out only 20, 30%, or nothing at all. There, money without a shepherd accumulates, as Pétur Blöndal put it so well in his day. A sheep without a shepherd that we've seen disbanded from the tax collections of insurance companies to Tortola, the Cayman Islands, or ended up in a luxury apartment in China or Hong Kong, and then came back and was half-teamed at the pool on Elfunes, which was a very strange case, after the collapse of the bank. It's also surprising that Iceland's funds are never renovated. There is no law on profit: he gathereth and gathereth up treasure. Insurance companies can bring in the money and get it. But civilized nations regularly make up such compensations. If we clear the application form and make sure that more people can get a divorce, it is more likely that the person will be able to handle the case and finish the case and get the right and fair compensation for his damages. We're supposed to aim for people to get the benefits they're entitled to in the system rather than some reassigned compensation, just because they're in a financial position that they're likely to approve of anything, in these matters. We also know that a large group of people have insurance insurance insurance, insurance insurance, insurance insurance, and unfortunately not all have it, and unfortunately, there is a large number of people who cannot afford to have it. Hence, we need to make sure that those in need can fight insurance companies. It should be our duty and should be of course. If you are involved in serious physical harm or a minor damage related to it, you are entitled to receive what is legally your right, and it is accurately evaluated. All available resources can be searched for in order to obtain the benefits. If we were to do so, we would be applying damage laws, for their purpose must be to repair the damage completely, or as it is possible, but not that the damage is added only to the satisfaction of insurance companies. It tells itself that it is their absolute advantage to pay as little as possible, as a least compensation. The less they pay, the more they gain, the more they gain fruit. It must tell us that this is a lousy system, and I really hope we change these things. I would also like to point to an article published in the August 8, 2018. That's a word of speech. By permission of a president. ▪ Why is this important? Low sums of money in the rules of abduction have long been criticized. For example, in a recent interview with the hour, an attorney Dr. Ragnar The Aðalsteinsson says that the fence system is ruined. We've got people who've wanted to appeal to cases they've lost in the county, people who can't pay for anything. We've applied for an appeal for it, but we've received a refusal with the argument that the jurisdiction is so good, it doesn't have to appeal. However, taking such a stand is not the norm, but they believe it is. Then we have had to appeal at our expense and at our risk. However, we have done such things, more than one and more than two. In addition, there are far below all, and even ministers have set regulations that further limit this. Ragnar said that it represents the clean kingdom, that is, the part of the city's palace leg stands in the community. It's hard to get into court with public rights because it's all too expensive and the possibility of mobbing is often small and nobody's. The Act on the Management of Personal Affairs says that if the cause of the candidate provides sufficient grounds for a lawsuit or a defense, and either of the following conditions are additionally met: a. that the applicant's financial resources are such that the cost of the protection of his interest in the case would be predictablely overweight, as it may otherwise be considered reasonable to make a pay of public funds, b. that there is a significant general significance or considerable protection for the job, social status or other private interests of the applicant. I tell you, when you read this, it's amazing, what's to be the reason for the subject's going to be advert and that it should come up, as it says here, that a parish committee will take over the court and say, "No, this is not a possibility, the judgment of the province is so completely correct. What you're surprised about is that when you can read that sort of argument from a luster committee and you can prove that a federal judgment is a bit more serious, it doesn't matter. And that it may be possible to fight an apocalyptic committee for years and at last when they cannot help but swallow it, once the commission has been passed and passed between Pontíus and Heródes and all over, they finally swallow that, yes, there is a foundation for a lust. There is a basis for harm to the individual. He's going to get a bite. What happens then? The case is ancient. The insurance company gets all the money, every cent. There are these things. That's the kind of thing we're doing. These cases show us black and white that it is time for the government to pull up their pants, remove the damage laws completely in the nose, raise the standards so that people get what they have right and make sure that the damage laws are for them, improve the damage they are, and not make a huge profit for insurance companies at the expense of those who suffer loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u107	President. This is a simple bill for changing the birth and parent's law, underlining limitations. It reads: '62. ' case, 2nd. 10th par. The law's going to fall out of their way to the other side. It was once proposed to a Council of 150, and it is reassigned materially unchanged. The condition is for a minimum period of time that an employee is allowed to take hysteria. The 2nd issue. 10th par. the layer on birth and parentorof says that birthworm should never be taken for less than two weeks at a time, but with the bill the limitation for how short the time at any time can be taken is reduced. There is no need for such a limit, for a pregnancy has always been agreed with an employer. When an employee feels that he is benefiting from taking a hysteria for such a short period of time, it is only right to have this possibility. In handling the case of the 150th legislature, the welfare committee received information on the subject of the child's agent. While the commissioner says that it is important to ensure that parents adapt to the process of birth but to ensure that birth vacations are kept in place for children, parents leave behind paid jobs in the labour market. The reason that the minimum time to take a birthday would have been prolonged from one week to two weeks was because it wanted to burn that parents didn't quit their jobs when they had only reported birthworm in one week. This has, in turn, made it harder for the executives to monitor whether or not the parent will stick up for such a short period of time. In view of this, the agent does not consider the changes suggested in the bill to be a reason. The Law's minimum-time delivery policy is difficult to implement for parents who have an irregular shift and part-time job, and who don't have fixed hours. Thus, in such situations, a two - week minimum time may stimulate a discouraging influence on parents, which violates the law's purpose to ensure parents'care during their most important lifetime. It cannot be agreed as evidence for a two-week minimum time that it is difficult for an executive of the system to monitor if parents really work at the scheduled time. There the official takes place in behalf of individuals in order to care for their needs, not for the needs of their parents and children.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u108	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize financial criteria. The bill suggests that the European Commission Regulation on financial indicators adopted in the EEA Convention will be granted legal values in this country. Credits based on loan agreements, derivatives, and other financial agreements often depend on the development of indexes that should measure prices such as interest, welfare, value of stock collections, or raw prices. For example, bank interest is often equivalent to indexes that are supposed to measure interest from bank to bank with a certain amount of pressure. Those who take up such guidelines or those who provide information based on them may be at risk to misuse their situation if they are benefiting from developing in a certain way. Banks could, for example. Benefits from providing misleading information on loans in order to influence criteria to measure interest between banks if interest rates from loans they have received are based on the criteria. After the financial crisis in 2008-2009, it was found that international banks profited from Euribor, Libor and Tibor products - these terms are known from banking transactions, from the bank world. This is a reference to a set of criteria. So the banks had profited from these interest rates that should measure interest between banks in the euro area, in London and in Tokyo, and provide a broad range of financial contracts. It was also suspected that the criteria for currency and raw markets were favourabled. The European Union's Regulation is designed to address such conflict of interest and contribute to the more reliable financial criteria. Among other things, management and management practices are recommended. In this country, the indicator will be the basis of Iceland's Copenhagen Corporation. and a few business ventures of stock markets and stock market companies agree with the set of values, not with the indicators established by Iceland's Hauspah and Iceland's Secret Bank. A respectable president. By the end of the last year, the requirements for investment criteria with little or positive influence on carbon dioxide emissions were added to EU Regulation to promote the reliability and further use of such criteria. This was part of EU initiatives to promote sustainable investments. The transition to the EEA Convention is proposed to also provide a legal value. The bill assumes that Iceland's Council of Economic Affairs will monitor the law and be able to use administrative legislation as a result of violating it. It is suggested that the minister and the Council Bank be authorized to introduce the Regulation's subset, which further expands its individual aspects by administration instructions. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u109	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to a new law on a ship's fee. According to Article 28, ship tax is laid on owners each year. plan to monitor ships. In a bill to a canal that has been submitted to the General Assembly, as well as a 208 suit. No, 209, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A report by that bill states that it was considered in the bill's contract that the orders of orders should be made better in the law on the extra income of the budget, No. 88/1991. It is suggested in the bill that the orders for a ship's fee be placed in a new set of orders. It is not considered that the orders of an order should be placed in the laws on the extra income of the state's funds, where orders are physically contrary to the fees laid on that law and so that to form a tow, the payment is not paid on dues, as do other taxes. The amount of cannoli can be determined by the size of ships and by the management of pressures, which will be in the hands of a walking agency as previously established, but the Agency will be overleafing the main ship's list. Several changes in materials are found in the bill of verse 28. plan to monitor ships. So it is suggested that one day be, not the due date, but the 15th of May and that the grappancy falls from due date, not from due date to due. There's a set-up on the maintenance rights of the Marine Room on the ocean keys, as 5 mgr. Twenty-eight. The law, where it is clear that the warrant has never been tested. It is also stated that due to the lack of payment the law should be valid for two years instead of one year, while the tax collectors count one year for a short period of time to complete the collection. At the same time, it is clearly stated who is responsible for the pressures of the fee, its collection, and the legal means of the currency. A respectable president. The bill will not affect changes in government administration or stakeholders, i.e. The fees of a ship's fee. However, the prolongation of the law from one year to two years, due to the lack of order, will have an effect on the chances of increasing the cost's effectiveness. The bill will not have a significant effect on the survival of a government fund, but it will remain the same as the law. These are necessary corrections and other changes that will lead to a clearer understanding of the tax laws. To this end, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u110	A respectable president. I hereby recommend for bill to legalize various tax and tax laws. The bill also includes... proposed temporary reductions in insurance costs, as well as necessary corrections and other changes in various tax and tax laws. It is also an exception to motor vehicles driven by methadone, methadone, electricity, or hydrogen for freight transport, and to minimum automobile costs in the case of electricity and hydrogen vehicles and so on. I will now discuss key elements of the bill. 1st A temporary reduction in insurance costs: The bill suggests that the overall spending will be temporarily reduced to one year, or to local payment in 2021, and at the pressures of public pay in 2022 due to the income of 2021, from 4.90% to 4.65%. The purpose of the reduction is to minimise the impact of the remunerations agreed in the biographies and will reduce the amount of insurance would be equivalent to not laying up a labour contract of pay which is currently being carried out for years. The total amount of insurance will be rounded up by 4 billion dollars. ... becauseofthedepression. This, of course, reduces the government's payment by 0.9 billion dollars. and will cause a net effect on the state funds, which will result in a total of 3.1 billion dollars. decreased. At the same time, this operation reduces municipal expenses by 0.5 billion dollars. next year. 2. Change in the tax freedom of marriage to spouses and pensions: The law on income taxes describes the legislation and the execution of life to a mate or to a former mate where the tax rights of money are limited to the same amount as minimumelli pensions, or basic pensions. At the time of the release, the currency target was the same for sensibilities and disability - pensioners. The combination of pensions has changed, and it is suggested to use the currency limit of its disability pension to maintain its original standards. What we previously talked about as a basic pension has actually been combined in the social security of pension. 3. Stocks: It is suggested that the amount found in income tax laws and is one of the other requirements needed to meet in order to obtain a worker's legal rights as taxpaying, not remuneration, increase from 600,000 dollars. to 1,500,000 k. If the bill is legal, then the highest per employee's prenup may be not more than 1,500,000 dollars. In a year of purchase. It is not expected that the change will have a great impact on the wealth of the state if it becomes a law. This is a currency target that has remained unchanged in the law of approximately 2 years ago. Twenty years in debt. 4. The switch of sales prices to specialized real estates, as well as to property, land or rights associated with these assets: In the law on income tax, it is recommended that, when property and land are sold at one time, the prices of sale should be divided to the same proportion as the sold assets are assessed for real estate assessment on the day of sale. In cases where real - estate evaluations do not reflect the market value of commerce, it is suggested that when trading prices, the proportion of which the sellers are assessed for real estate evaluation. We are discussing the situations in which real - estate evaluations do not reflect the market value of business. It suggests that when the exchange of sale prices in the same proportion as the sold property is assessed for real estate evaluation, significant abnormal results, not reflecting the market prices of the selling goods, should be based on their market prices on a day of sale instead of on real estate evaluation. For example, a country with a house sold in 100 million is sold. K. The real estate assessment of an apartment building is 90 million. K. but the country is estimated at 10 billion. K. The exchange price would then be made so that 90 million would be part of the apartment complex and would thus be tax free, but only 10 million considered to be the source of taxable sales for sale of the land, even though the sale would have been the main premium of high prices. 5. Tax freedom is strengthened in the form of subsidies from the state: It is suggested in the bill that concentrations for people with a residence outside the capital area are not considered to be valid. Thus, to meet the requirements of the arrangement, it is intended to take up transportation because of any type of transportation within the country, whether in the air, land, or sea. 6th Human living in an apartment building: In income tax laws it is recommended that the individual's income from renting houses to permanent tenants is considered to be out of job or independent activity if there are no more than two special property owned. Clearly, reading a piece of paper in the bill was a law on changing various laws on taxes, customs, and fees, meaning special property. An adjustment of the wording is made in order to cancel any argument about another. 7. Government taxpayer's rules and decisions: The Act on income tax laws stipulates that the head of the tax shall set up the Commission's regulations and procedures. In addition, the government tax manager should publish rules and decisions that he considers to be relevant to taxpayers and post-traumatic cases for sale. It is suggested that the taxpayer may also be published and sold for the public an overview of taxes, tolls and charges in the state taxpayer's field, or provided a special service according to a budget that should be confirmed by a minister and published in the CDC. 8. In view of the fact that a pandemic year of crown virus still rages and that the tax taxpayer's contributions, the number of people makes a trip to tax payment throughout the year 2020, a provision of temporary income taxation laws, that despite the laws of the taxation laws, the taxation form was not obliged to be submitted by the taxpayers at 2020 or 2021. It is important to ensure that the government tax manager's office can carry out its legal duties, while taking into account the rules on restrictions at meetings as well as on general disease prevention issues. At the same time, a comparable provision is made to add a law on the value tax that, despite the laws of the law, in the years 2020 and 2021, the tax retails are not obliged to be submitted. 9. Changes in tax subsidies for capital gain: There is a requirement for the change in tax pay on capital income, instead of on year, when it comes to the interaction of pressure and deadlines, there will be a period of pay. This is in view of changes that have occurred during pay periods from the calendar year to four three months'pay period. It is then suggested that provision for temporary III, on tax payment laws on capital pay, be removed, and the percentage of local pay has been changed since its implementation, first to 18%, then 20%, and now 22%. It requires that, from July 1, 2009, the responsible authorities be required to provide 15% of the tax paid by taxpayers who qualify after July 1, 2009, of the older requirements, as well as the requirements set up thereafter. 10. Except motor vehicles from the product charge: Compilation of the regulations of road vehicles, fuel, etc. is implemented. which includes making room for the addition of the product to other brands of goods for commercial freight transport that are motivated by methadone, electricity, or hydrogen in all respects. The proposal in the bill suggests that there is no distinction between the production of so - called new energy automobiles that are powered by methadone, electricity, or commercial hydrogen, which will be considered normal, including the following: Based on government goals on energy exchange and climate. 11th In view of the government's objectives for transport and climate exchange, the minimum price paid to clean - power vehicles is laid down: in view of the government's target of transport and climate change, the minimum price paid to be paid by clean - power automobiles, which are completely saturated with methadone, electricity, or hydrogen, and weighing 3,500 kg or more. 12th Costs of RVs: An extension of the temporary reduction of the registered emissions of RVs is proposed by 31 December 2021 to meet specific criteria for achieving a final solution in the category. 13th Funding warrants for the legalization of industrialists and designers in the laws on the increase of state funds: Finally, in accordance, is proposed to pay due to the legalization of industrialists and construction designers is based on the law on the extra pay of state funds, as is the case with law of electrical contractors. It is not merely a recommendation to move them to one place in the laws on the extra pay of the state's funds. The change will include the loss of these sector incomes by a Housekeeping and Engineing Institute, which, instead, receives a contribution from a government fund in return. All other changes in sectoral income and cost are subject to traditional financial and planning procedures. This has not been expected in the budget bill, but if the law allows for a change to be made at 2nd. ... basedona New Year's Eve validation. A respectable president. The bill's proposals are varied, as can be said about its impact. The reduction in insurance costs will be equivalent to not adding the share of the stock stocks of a collective remuneration that will be implemented for the next year's conventions, as mentioned above. The total amount of insurance will be rounded up by 4 billion dollars. ... becauseofthedepression. This, of course, reduces the government's payment by 0.9 billion dollars. and will cause a net effect on the state funds, which will result in a total of 3.1 billion dollars. decreased. At the same time, this operation reduces municipal expenses by 0.5 billion dollars. next year. If the adjustment to the law is done, it will have a positive effect on employers. Other changes proposed in the bill will in total not have a significant impact on the survival of the state funds, individuals and legislators. However, these are necessary corrections and other changes that will lead to a clearer understanding of tax laws. The Honorable President, I suggest this bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u111	Madam President. I'm not going to talk about this whole bill. I'm not going to talk about it. It is. With her, she makes the most of it. A minister to extend the provisional regulations that entered our income tax laws that include the initiatives of the Economic and Business Committee, which include that because of the state of the Korean epidemic, there is no danger of proclaiming people in the same place for years and decades. That is why the tax was authorized not to submit stress files in the current year because of income last year. Here's a suggestion to keep this warrant going for next year too. That's what we talked about. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson at the Assembly Hall in May when it was measured by the Economic and Business Committee. There was only a very different situation then. At that time, we were as a council and as a community, responding in a much more time - consuming way than we now have. That is why I understand that the committee has chosen to release the tax from the challenge list rather than provide the necessary means for making changes; that these files will simply be moved into electronic shapes and made available to people in the region of the IRS. By doing so, they can achieve the same objective as expected by not providing the files, i.e. to ensure that the tax can take into account restrictions at meetings and take care of general means of infection. By publishing the files in electronic form rather than totally releasing the source, this is done without compromising the role of the document display. In fact, it's a conjugal proposal that I've made several times here at the council, to make an electronic display of the principle. That's how it is, for example. in Norway, where similar records have been available for years. It has to be said that the way that has been being done in this country is long out - of - date, i.e. that the tax will print out a doll with an overview of the income and expenses of all the citizens of the country and put in some offices to look at. This is called by the law that tax files are available in a suitable place, but at the end of the year 2020, or 2021, as it will be when the next file is out, this is no longer a suitable place in a country where nearly 100% are considered to be an electronic tax system. It is normal to have all the data available to make it available to you. I propose this change proposal to cover the 1st. to avoid the occurrence of what happened this spring, to get a tip on the possibility of moving the release to an electronic form too late to be handled. Besides, I think it's a good idea that reporters can take a stand on this idea along with the ideas reflected in the bill. I hope when we get the case through 2nd. the electronic display will be above rather than stop the display.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u112	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prehistoric finance minister. I'd like to come in on the 1st. The bill, the insurance bill. We in the Middle East have felt that the rate of the virus epidemic should have been reduced and even temporarily reduced. I'll get to that afterwards, but I'd like to stop taxing on an Icelandic company in general in international comparison. She's one of the highest in the North countries behind Norway. In an effort to close the budget as we know it, companies were raised after the 2008 financial collapse. However, this tax change has been taking place ever since, and it has been a failure of the government to cut down the insurance fee, which is, of course, one of the largest government revenues and estimated that it will provide approximately 100 billion dollars on the budget bill next year. As I mentioned at the outset, we in the Middle East have felt that it was important to strengthen by any means available to our companies in the country's difficult situation because our companies play a key role in restoring the job life in the great unemployment that now exists and comes to increase, unfortunately, according to predictions. The most recent figures from the Penitentiary are not optimistic that the restoration or restoration, the drag, will be what they were hoping for next year. So it is very important that companies can keep their employees and even supplement their staff. It plays a key role, it must be said at the moment, and it is of great importance in strengthening the foundation of an enterprise that this price is not burdensome. High insurance costs are worst for companies where pay and pay-or-remuneration are largely expensive. Besides, high insurance costs undermine the competitiveness of these enterprises and improve Iceland's competitiveness is very important, especially in the conditions in which we are now living and the national society lives. It is of utmost importance that Icelandic companies compete in international agreement, and it is of particular importance that the tax environment is not burdensome to the competitive countries in which the companies are looking for markets. The government's government covenant specifically highlights the reductions in the insurance fee, but it has not been sufficient in our opinion and conclusion of the industrial organization. Despite that, a temporary decline in this bill, about 0.25%, was reported from 4.90% to 4.650%, as at the highest level. The financial and economic secretary mentioned earlier is expected to pay the equivalent of 100 billion dollars. next year, state funds. As we know, the insurance fee is a special price paid by the remunerationpayers. As I mentioned earlier, the competitiveness of international enterprises towards foreign rivals has deteriorated in recent years, including due to the domestic cost of growth, measured in foreign currency. This trend is now evident in less valuable exports, the viral epidemic has a significant impact on it as well as on these companies on the national markets that compete with foreign companies. So it is very important to work to make sure that the commercial environment in Iceland is as practical as we compare ourselves in these activities with other countries. For the economic collapse, or 2008, the insurance bill was 5.34%, but it was raised to 8.655% following it. The increase was thought of as a temporary operation to cover a huge increase in expenses due to sudden unemployment. ASI has just mentioned the importance of returning these increases in insurance, and we have certainly maintained that presentation in the Middle Ages. But as I say, the government has been reluctant to turn it down again. It is quite surprising in my opinion because the fact is that insurance spending has increasingly been used to finance other financial expenses. This is usually what is a problem when it comes to government taxes, taxing that are meant to be temporary, and then it's so hard to go back and take them off. I just mention the car fee that was to be a temporary fee, whether it was only one year old or whatever it was when it was due, but it's been for about 25 years. This seems to be some unwritten law, that when taxes are imposed in this way or that raised or paid, it seems very difficult to reverse that trend. That is something very unfortunate because, of course, these charges and taxes are to be applied at the beginning of the appointment. As an example, I consider the carbon tax, which has gone up a lot in the history of this government. The price was about 3.5 billion when this government became 2017. He is returning to the state funds, or it is now planned in these budgets, 6.1 billion dollars. This is a half increase in the price of this time. Then, when you start considering the price, only a fraction of the carbon bill is an earmarked environment, such as the cost is really to be paid, action in interest of the environment. Only a fraction of the price, or the tax, goes into it. There's been new taxes and new fees, and this government's been pretty busy raising them, like I'm saying, with the carbon bill. The carbon price is more than 11 k. Each litre of diesel, and over 10 k. each litre of gasoline, and this brings natural harm to those who have a low income load and on the region. After all, it is remarkable that the University's Economic Institute evaluated this tax in a fine report published during the summer, but it received very little publicity among the media, and this tax is simply used by the government to obtain a function of carbon tax loss. This tax is not leveled on the population in a fair way, causing the greatest loss on income - stricken people. It reduces production, reduces employment, raises costs like transport costs, and so on. It's just undesirable for a number of things, so it's mentioned here in this tax discussion. In today's difficult situation, the reduction simply has to be more than 0.25%. It's our conclusion in the Central category because, as I said at the outset, the business in this country plays a key role in our being able to restore our jobs and reduce the high unemployment rates in this country. The pay is calculated as a percentage of the salary paid by the company to its employees. The more dollars the company pays in pay, the more money it will be paid in terms of insurance. The higher the insurance bill, the more expensive the employee is for his company. The higher the percentage, the less pay raise, the less the company can live up to the number of employees. This may be the key to all of this, which we really need now, that the business can increase its employees. The natural power of the State is then to meet the enterprises in that respect, simply because unemployment is a massive lesion in every nation, and it is very difficult for a person who is affected by the loss of his job to face it. Hence, it is in many ways important, both financially and socially, and there is also a health problem that results from long - term unemployment. It is a great privilege to work for governments to meet companies so that they can reassign staff. Moreover, we know that unemployment costs large sums of money. Each cent on a yearly basis for unemployment costs 6 billion dollars. So it is all that we have to do with reducing this price to the most, and it really is important in the situation in which we are in today. In addition, payment reduces the ability of an enterprise to invest and create jobs, as mentioned earlier. Investors are very important here and now in the state of national and economic conditions. Investments promote employment and increase growth. So I have to say, Mr. President, that I certainly would have liked to see, and we in the middle of the company, the government is taking a much better look at this reduction than is being done in the bill. The bill says that the net effect of the reduction of the insurance fee by 0.25% next year is negative for the state funds of about 3.1 billion. Then someone might conclude that a decrease of 0.5% would mean a decrease in income for a set of 6 billion dollars. It is not because the reduction makes it easier for companies to hire new employees and do better for what is available, which, in turn, restores tax returns to the state's funds. Thus, the benefits of a careful reduction of the budget are great, and especially in today's economic situation. This is what we in the Middle Ages have stressed and have been our contribution in the discussion of the years of resistance and the difficulties that the nation has had to deal with recently and unfortunately are, as I mentioned earlier, not good enough to get started sooner, although the news of a vaccine is positive. Hopefully, soon in a new year, a vaccine will be arrived in Iceland. Of course, that will change the situation a lot, and hopefully the wheels of the industry will return. But surely we would have wanted to see that this resistance would be more powerful than expected in the predictions we've been watching lately, and the Navy went on particularly this week. Of course, the gang situation is a concern, and it is clear that the recent session has been buying crowns to support further declines in the crown. Of course, this is very important, for the last thing we need in this situation is the start of the inflation. This, of course, is a concern, and it is also a concern, and has been observed in the discussion, in the interest of the growth of two state banks, which appear a bit like a cold water breeze in the front of those who have been changing their loans and who have made their homes in the country enormously well. In these difficult circumstances, the number of interest rates and debts on loans has been tremendously effective in the homes of the country, and it is disappointing to see that banks are growing at the same time as the late bat is further decreasing. I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest power. Secretary of finance to keep a close eye on this. [[The president calls.]] Besides, I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to lower this insurance fee further because that is the basis for our efforts to rebuild our job life in the short term.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u113	Madam President. I can agree with many of those things. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farm said earlier. He reviewed that the Central Party wanted to cancel the insurance fee for the coming years, thus forming an interview for the companies. I agree that in view of the fact that there is a tax on the job, there is no particular reasonable currency. It's the problem. It's the problem. It's the problem. In contrast, a senator, like me, is that this is an enormous wealth of the state, over 100 billion, and it has put considerable pressure on government funds, such as water. A senator who now serves on a financial committee knows well. We've had to raise payment on unemployment insurance. We have also protected employment relationships between enterprises and hired persons through a partial reform system. It's a lot of money that's been involved, and it's up to the next year's cutback system to be extended. And when people come out here and talk about the lack of a cut-off of insurance, they have to keep in mind that the insurance bill has dropped by at least 12% in the time of this government. That's a lot of money, up to 20 billion a year. It's kind of cheap to me to say what. A senator comes up here and calls himself a knight and says: We in the Central Party are just gonna cancel the insurance bill next year. Then I'll ask you why. To contribute to the increase of the Kingdom Fund by 100 billion in the coming year? Or is he going to finance what is missing, this 100 billion dollars, in some other way? If so, it would be good to find out where or what expenses are available. A senator is going to cut down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u114	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In terms of the insurance bill, the reduction of it, or the temporary delinquency, it is the most important thing. We have stressed that it is very important to support smaller companies, who may have fewer than ten employees or so. That breakdown will never cost one hundred billion dollars, that knows why. A senator as well as me. This has been the point of our presentation, the Central Party, to meet with an enterprise of this magnitude. There are certainly very little companies in the country that have been affected by the viral epidemic, and there is no need to cancel insurance on such companies. We've got it all figured out, and it's in our suggestion. So there's no need to turn this issue around, and I'm telling you what to do. A senator to study our proposal. My presentation is primarily about what I think we are. A senator agrees that strengthening the foundation of your companies is very important in such a situation. Hence, a handsome temporary decline is of utmost importance. She will make it so that the companies will be much better equipped to enter this interview with the full strength that we hope to be as soon as possible, although, certainly, have only diminished the latest predictions I mentioned earlier. The point is, it's about the companies who are in most of the trouble because of the epidemic, that's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u115	Madam President. Then I understand why. So a senator and his party members focus on reducing insurance costs to severely affected companies. Is that right, what? Senator? Is it true that middle-class ideas are merely about reducing insurance fees to those companies, and especially in smaller companies, who have suffered shocks? If you do, I'd like to point out your sledgehammer. A senator says that governments have already taken enormous measures. Last week, we were agreeing here to a total of up to 23 billion subsidies and closure grants to companies that have had to deal with business traumas and the government has announced further action in response to the grants that I expect we'll be allowed to get on our table in the coming week. But I can do it. A senator confirms that the proposals of the Central Party, when it comes to the insurance bill, merely focus on reducing the insurance fees to the affected companies, which are actually another extension of what the government has been doing in the form of shut-downstiffs, credit loans, and boxers when they are taking over here in the new year?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u116	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. We've emphasized that, though. A senator, in our exchange, when it comes to the insurance fee, to support the companies who have relatively few employees compared to the big companies, and then we've talked about two to ten employees. There is nothing to talk about being concerned with only those companies that have had difficulties. It is being suggested that this enterprise has greater potential for improving staff and maintaining its staff, on this matter. As I mentioned earlier, there are companies here who have done well, are large and have not been affected by the virus epidemic. We do not see reason to limit the price in them in particular. But I would like to make it clear, because of it. A senator mentioned the measures the government has proposed, and then also for business, the closing power for my company, support loans, and all of that, that we in the media have supported them, this is the right to maintain it. We've come up with some other ideas that we've come up with. In fact, we e - mailed our suggestions to the prime minister because it was difficult to communicate, and the highest. Prime Minister requested that. We have done our part in softening the economic and commercial impact of the economy. However, the government has not seen reason to support our proposals, which we have put here on budgets, etc. You're right to keep it up. However, the Central Party's ideas on temporary spending of insurance bills turn towards smaller and medium-sized enterprises in order to strengthen the management ground so that they can recruit and maintain the staff they already have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-19-23.u117	President. The officials of this council arrangement are members of Pirata, along with Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Guðmundur of Kristinsson. This is not a complicated yet important suggestion, and it has been made several times before. It sounds like the following: The General concluded to hide a travel, industrial, and innovation minister to prepare a legislation that includes a review of real estate sales and ships' laws, No. 70/2015, real estate law, no. 40/2002, and Constitutional Codes, No. 39/1978, with the following objective: a. that state reports follow the sales statements of all property intended for an apartment, b. that the state reports should be prepared by an independent professional with a comprehensive knowledge of the mechanism of action, the implementation of the evaluation procedure and the content of the state reports should be coordinated, c. that those who produce state reports for property sales will be responsible for the failings of any of their valuables and are not listed in their reports and should have professional guarantees which guarantee the insecurities of buyers and sellers property when their failures lead to reformation, d. to contribute, without making it a direct law duty, to owners of real estate intended for an apartment keep a maintenance diary that gets electronically under the fixed number of property, e. that simple legalizations, such as embassies for selling real estate, signing of a contract and buying contract on property electronically, can be arranged using services such as Iceland.is. This proposal is presented until the fifth time. It was last submitted to the 150th legislature and is now reassigned by the adjustment that state reports follow the sales statements of every property designed for an apartment, both used and new. This adds to the new letter, b-joints, assessments, integrated assessments and content of the state reports. This is because of comments that had previously been made in the reviews of the subject during previous councils. Businesses with apartment housing are very difficult. They are usually the largest business shared by individuals and families in their lives, and much of their resources are usually below. Investment in house - to - house living is usually also an investment in a home. It is very important that the rules regarding such transactions increase the safety and security of consumers and reduce the damage and unnecessary damages of debates and judicial cases. Then it is important to keep people from experiencing life in delinquency, a state of awareness that has led to its own dangers. So far, no significant improvements have been made in this field. This suggestion suggests that a minister be assigned to prepare some legal adjustments in order to improve the situation of consumers. It is emphasized that housing status will become known to all stakeholders on real estate transactions, i.e. The buyers, traders, and middlemen. This helps to reduce the likelihood that, after a business venture with an apartment building has taken place, the presence of secret defects with the related costs for buyers, traders, and society. It is suggested that there be clear rules on responsibility due to defects not included in the state reports. State reports made about property sales are often purchased by proposals and buyers today. Their access to property is not the same as that of a seller who can produce lower reports, as well as it is unavoidable that two or more bids have both file a state report on the basis of the same real estate. Then there may be some market conditions to leave such reports alone. For example, when housing is high demand, a pretext for real estate inspection can be considered as a subsidies offer. While the state report may be among goods, problems and judicial matters can be greatly reduced as a result of the sale of apartment housing. This will minimize unnecessary costs and reduce the quality of the business. Thus, a buyer would have better information on the quality of the facility in the earlier process and the safety of the seller as the quality and accuracy of sales indexes and other data would be increased. This would allow the intermediate to provide better and more accurate information and thus better service. With reference to the report of Iceland's Maturity Association, which received an economic and business committee in the treatment of the 150th legislation Council, it is suggested that state reports follow the sales statements of all property designed for an apartment. The review points out that the information required should be included in the SmPC, according to Article 11. law on selling real estate and ships, as well as on new real estates as on use. The requirements for the authenticity of such information are consistent with the sales of new apartments, but experience shows that new property in this country has not always proved faultless. There was a shortage of sales indexing new real estates to meet the material requirements of the aforementioned laws. It is suggested that there be an assessment report on real estate status from an independent professional who has extensive knowledge of the mechanism of action and that the implementation of the assessment is consistent and that the content of the reports is consistent. Such quality requirements fall on the part of most families throughout their lives to promote dependability, trust, and harmony in real - estate transactions. The above reference points to the importance of these factors, which are now being added to the proposal, as do the b-party. In addition, in this context and as an example of changing law, the independent assessment organization in Norway, Norwegian, and the food system that has been used there for decades is referred to. A maintenance home diary has a purpose comparable to that of the oil diary for cars. A maintenance diary can include information such as when major building projects are performed. This is not expected to be part of such a maintenance diary, but more information on maintenance diary living has been made available to increase trust in business ventures with that property. To be able to look up this information, even far back in time, also make significant efficiency in the maintenance of real estate. One of the main objectives of this proposal is to simplify communication between the seller and buyer of housing as well as landlords and tenants in making contracts and other necessary legalties. Such simplicity is designed to reduce the cost of buying and selling, increase the effectiveness in business, reduce the misunderstanding, and increase the safety of consumers. With electronic solutions such as the isolandis, it would be a step forward in the direction this business is developing. On December 21, 2018, there was a validation of terms of change in Congress laws, electronic transactions, and other electronic services and laws on the extra income of the state's funds, i.e. It's an electronic synopsis. In the bill, it is recommended that the law be allowed to announce an electronic entry that will be equivalent to a document's declaration. At first, a synonym with an electronic entry will be restricted to a certain type of documents and specific candidate requests. As more experience becomes available in the electronic process, the number of documents to be announced electronically can be increased. Such trends must be used to improve effectiveness and security and to improve the services of consumers. To illustrate the magnitude of these issues, we can consider judgments that have been taken because of real estate. However, a warning must be made that not all cases go through the judiciary system, and it may be assumed that much more matters are handled without the court being passed. Justice as well as the matters not intended for judgment would be expected to be greatly reduced by the changes presented here. In the process of the proposal, local courts with the passwords were searched for ◯Frequency, even permanent purchases, and a tip-off on the home page of Domoria.is during the period of January 1, 2010◯18. August 2017. The results are presented in a table as suggested. During this period, there were a total of 130 cases of real estate, which resulted in a lack of real estate 102 cases. The cost of the twenty-two cases was laid down from 2016 to three. On average, the cost of judicial hearings was 1.2 million. K., at least 250,000, but max 3.2 million. K. It should be noted that the cost of the matter is judged only by another person, so the other person's exact cost of the matter remains. In addition, the conviction of the court's charges does not have to reflect the actual cost of justice. During that same period, 15 counts of Iceland's Supreme Court had to do with property defects. The passwords were consulted using the'stem' and 'gain' in a review of the court's home page.is. This interpretation proposal, as mentioned earlier, is now proposed for the fifth time. It has previously come to the committee, received a lot of reviews, the visitors had finished, the commission was prepared and the case was literally ready to be paid at the last economic and business committee meeting at that council. But for some reason, one member of the committee was opposed to taking the case out of a committee, and so it did not go further. It was very strange, I thought. I can imagine a number of reasons, but I don't know what's true about that. All I know is that the case was ready to be reviewed or decommissioned. Everyone seemed to agree that the matter would come to the council, but as I said, only one party, even from a government stand, needed to say: "No, I don't think it's ready, and everyone in the administrative part of it jumped on it and didn't take the case out of payment or vote on whether the matter was ready to be treated in another discussion. I was sorry that I have seen from that time a number of news stories and articles written on the exact subject and on the flaws intended for this proposal. As I say, there have come guests in this matter, and the opinion of the committee has been prepared according to these reviews. If there is no new statement, it should not be taken long to resolve the matter and before the council to accept it. I think everyone sees how obvious a step it is to go this way. It's made up of a Norwegian model, and it's not such a new creation, except maybe here, that there should be some reason to fear it in any way or anything like it. I hope that now during the last session of this election season, the council can take a little action and stop locking matters into a committee, a case that most members of Congress, in accordance with the message I have received, would seem to agree that there is a improvement in society, for all, for consumers in this case and for sales, for buyers, traders and middlemen, for all of them. There is a great need for extra security and more quality in this group of subjects, and I don't see any reason for that, based on the prehistory and how far it's gone before, that there should not be any way to get into the contingency of this council.
