ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u1	In view of the unusual circumstances that exist today, the president has requested that a variation be granted at 1 mg. 80. g. Congress. Directors of Parliaments have informed the president that they have their consent on behalf of members of the Assembly for the fourth session. So if you don't object, if you don't hear a word of it, you'll have an approved look.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u2	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct measures for economic impact following a pandemic crown virus. This bill suggests changes to various tax and tax laws and expenditures because of the high uncertainty of the economy and the economic situation of the country after a pandemic has been declared due to the Koron virus that causes the Covid-19 disease. Already there has been a major reduction in transport services and other sectors, both in the country and abroad, and it is unpredictable how long the contractions will last. The potential for major impacts on tourism, including air management, to be high, including Because of the many limitations that countries have placed on the arrival of foreign citizens and government counsel to limit travel. The majority of companies in the country are affected by certain measures associated with the control of the epidemic. It is evident, then, that the epidemic will also have a major impact on the state funds. In addition to changes in tax and tax laws and expenditures, there are proposed changes to the law on life insurance and the work of pension funds on the basis of temporary authorization for the review of property savings and state responsibilities due to the commitment of state funds. The measures that we now take for the General Assembly deal with the economic problems associated with the current medical crisis are due to the epidemic. Our main actions are to protect people's jobs by trusting the company's management environment, thus ensuring the survival of their households. The purpose of this operation is to help people and businesses make right decisions. We have already agreed to take steps to enable people to make right health decisions by paying, for example. the amount of money in an environment, but we also want to make it easier for companies to make the right economic decisions by keeping people on the job if their employment rate is impaired and thus shortening the time to resume economic activity when the virus's caused by the virus is down. In that way, we want to do our part to relieve anxiety and the burden of employees and employees. That's how we want to cremate the economic low that is predictable. I will now discuss some details of the unique subject of the bill, but this review is not necessarily in the order that is found in the bill. I'm gonna start off with a deadline, a local fee and an insurance bill. As noted, one of the first steps we took to postpone dues recently, i.e. to give everyone permission to pay only half the money that was then coming on a lifetime. Here is a glimpse of what will take place. Those in temporary management problems due to income loss will be permitted to request every time of up to three of the nine pay due to due due due to due payment in the period between April 1 and December 1, 2020. The requirement for a deadline is at least For more than one third of a month of management failure compared to the same month last year, and second, that income has caused problems in the income, especially the financial status and financial status, and third, that the problem is temporary, and there has been no permanent financial gain before the loss of income. Remuneration of local pay will help to delay the spending of paypayers who will make use of the resources and that government funds will earn a lot of money on the basis of delay. At this point there is no closer estimate of the amount of money below, which will delay until 2021. On the other hand, it may be estimated that the local tax market, income tax, response, and insurance fees could be covered by 100 billion, combined over a period of three months. However, because of the conditions relevant for postponement, there will be a lower amount of money to discuss that will be delayed. The bill contains a tablet that highlights this slightly. We can see that according to a rough estimate, the local pay may be estimated to be about 100 billion in a three - month period, 57 billion in a state, and 43 billion in a rural community. If we assume that half of our companies will take advantage of resources, it would be about 50 billion of the state, while 75% would translate 75 billion. Sources for Ministers to cancel or reduce advance payment on sectoral income taxes are next being discussed. The bill suggests a temporary warrant that a minister can cancel or reduce the presupposition of 2020 to the estimated sector management tax due to the year 2019. This postpones local pay until pressure in October. A special children's expeditor will be here next. It is suggested that income tax laws be added on temporary terms that require a special child's allowance of 40,000 dollars. with each child within 18 years, income taxation is provided by a single parent and by a higher income marriage or a partner at 11,125,445 k. during the pressures of 2020 and 20,000 K. is greater than that. This is one - change operation and is suggested that the tax will determine the improvement in the pressures of public pay in June 2020. The economic impact on the state fund over the operation is negative at 3.1 billion. Then we are going to drop under the bill a special tax payment on ships and airplanes that pay off the public payoff time. That decision takes place until the end of 2021. General payoff time is from the clock. 7 o'clock in the morning. Eighteen in the afternoon. This procedure has an impact on pro-employers of the tax service charge, which has been paid in the exception of the general pay period and has resulted in about 450 million. K. every year if you look to 2019. We assume that by changing it, the IRS will be about 600 million. K. Taking a total of the tax payments in 2020 and 2021, of course, there is a lot of uncertainty about these figures that result from the nature of the case. The expenditures of export costs in 2020 for those in the Member States who receive a deadline of moving costs will be distributed over two days from the end of the second period of March's production, April 2020, and the year with a warrant for the entry of the total tax of that period, although only part of it has been paid. Incomes of this year's export costs and product expenditures do not reduce due to the change in the switch to standard transport costs, for which delay of pay is expected to bear a general average interest. However, this year's collection will reduce the share that will be delayed beyond the next year. Reimbursers and owners of housing and vacation houses must be paid 100% of the valuable tax they have paid from human work at the construction site, reform and maintenance of the design or monitoring of such facilities. The source is temporary, with 31st December 2020. At the same time, it is suggested that during the same period, renters or landlords will be allowed to pay 100% of the valuable tax they have paid from human work because of domestic assistance or regular housing care. An increase in cost tax reimbursement from 60% to 100% makes it totally possible for sellers to reduce prices in the relevant trade, either in new building or in recovery, and in maintenance of housing or vacation living conditions. Such reductions increase the demand for construction and therefore help to reduce the number of economic activity and the number of jobs caused by the crown virus. There is a positive financial impact on organisations in construction and related articles, design and monitoring of the construction of housing and vacation homes. In turn, this positive effect on construction is a loss of income in the state's funds. In addition to raising the remuneration rate to 100%, reimbursement sources are expected to expand projects for design and monitoring and, more importantly, for vacation living. Considering this, it may be estimated that eight billion dollars may be increased by remuneration. for implementation in 2020, but any part of that amount will be shown in the state funds accounting later in which six years of reimbursement is provided to submit a reimbursement application. It is reasonable to assume that this and the next year will be a total of about 8 billion dollars. It is assumed that in the period between March 1, 2020, and December 31, 2020, there are reimbursed humanitarians and charities, sports companies, rescue teams, national relief teams and emergency departments and individual social units working under the mark of the Community's merit tax paid for human work in the period of March 1, 2020, and with 31 December 2020 at the construction site, repair or reform of human resources owned by the Agency. Similarly, due to design or monitoring of construction of such activities, a reimbursement of the remuneration tax should be reimbursed. This is a new step which has been waiting for a long time and is step in towards the induction of measures proposed in a third sector report. I have to say that this operation is currently isolated from reimbursement for work, but much remains to be said that the cost of material things will also be put under the same hat. I think it's right that we look at ways to meet those demands. It is not obvious that the reimbursement of cost taxes on the subject is the only means to buy, but another form of reimbursement, such as. by setting aside a special amount each year to provide subsidies for the construction costs that can be shown to have fallen to. I would also like to say about the duration of this law that we make it work out this year, including the rest of the year. to pressure us to reevaluate our experience, or to appreciate the experience, I might say, as late as the fall goes on and ask ourselves, " How is this playing? ' How Has the Resource Helped? Is there reason to keep doing this, or do other ways follow the events? This is what I'm saying because I'm very interested in standing close to the third sector with the resources available to him. Here we take the first step that hopefully will be useful. We can make a decision to extend or expand this project and to improve their plans later this year. The Gistintre tax will be reduced between April 1, 2020, and December 31, 2021. There will be a delay in due to the pressures of taxation from January through March 2020. The bill's proposal for the delinquency of the host tax and the continuation of tax returns to reduce the income of the state's funds. The budget 2020 provides an income of 1,280 million for the host tax, building this plan for a slight decrease in tourist population since 2019. The negative effects of the crown virus have already begun to appear in the number of tourists, and they realize that it will be considerable during the year. So there is considerable uncertainty as to the degree of contractions. Residual income from host tax is expected to decline considerably from a budget as a result of a reduction in tourist budget and have been re-evaluated 820 million in 2020, and this is no doubt the last reassessment. Based on this, the collapse of the host tax will reduce the income of the state's budget during 2020 by 630 million and by 950 a year, along with the side effects on valuable tax. Here, for many tourists, it is next year. The persistence of the tax pay period does not interfere with tax returns, but government funds yield from income of pressures assuming that the pay of the host tax will be due to the innuendo period of January and February and March 2020 will be postponed in February 5, 2022. As a result, income for the upcoming period will allow the amount of 190 million to move to the year 2022. I'd like to say that in the discussion of the delinquency of the host tax, this has been regularly mentioned as having little effect on the hotel rooms, but here we are making a decision that looks to the next year. This is to say that we want to stand with the hotels and other accommodations and immediately state that the tax will not be there if the sun comes back in the summer, in the fall, or in the next year. This bill suggests that any person with a special possession pair generally available for payment at 60 years of age, during disability or due to justice can take up to 12 million. K. for local pay on the basis of an application for the supplier. The warrant is between April 1, 2020, and December 31, 2020. The reason for this temporary arrangement is to soften the recession that the provisional family members may face, including some families, may experience. followed by reduced income or loss of employment, in cases where these are used for them. The effect of this publication will be determined by the extent of payment, but there is considerable uncertainty. Keep in mind that if money is now used, they will not be available later, which can reduce the provision of these households later in life. Tax tax and response are paid by pension pay as well as by expert review according to the temporary authority proposed by the bill. Thus, the procedure works as counter measures during the pay period, while the financial expenses are high. It may well be estimated that a income tax from payment could be worth 2 billion. This and the next year, 1.5 billion respond together. During 2019 C.E., a legal reduction in a special tax on a financial company that daily is called a bank tax. That decision reduced the tax to four constant prisoners in the year 20213/4,2024, leading to a total of 0.145% between the 2024 stressful year. This reduction is expected in the bill to be accelerated so that by 2021, the currency rate will be transferred to 0.145%. The three - year - long delay has a negative impact on the income of the state's budget of about 10.6 billion. In the year 2021/2023, where the effect is greatest in 2021. Nevertheless, the expectations are that these changes will have a positive effect on society, allowing the companies to be more supportive of individuals and businesses in today's uncertainty. I'd like to let it be noted that on the basis of current tenure policies, the state will communicate with the Bank Office that no legal fees should be made on the bank under the circumstances that exist today. All of our other actions aim to maximise the effectiveness and use of the funds bound in the state banks and in the whole banking system. For this reason, in my view it is wrong, at the same time as the Navy makes extensive arrangements to increase the scope of the financial system and the state funds are being offered to accept responsibilities for the loans, to have a special bank tax in value that takes out the back door of what is being added to the operation. I'm going to come next to a set of rules that deal with my societies. First of all, there is a warrant for rural governments that allow temporary deliberation from local government regulations in the course of 2020-022. In the law, however, a balance rule is required which includes the requirement for the management of rural society to make sure that the total total amount of expenditure to the accounts of A and B is not higher than the total amount of combined regularity. However, there is a commitment rule which includes the fact that your partner's business should ensure that the overall debt of credit A and B is not greater than 150% of your community's regular income. Under the circumstances that have developed, it is important to give authority to deviate from these rules. Second, it is suggested that property taxes be permitted to postpone paydays in the same way as the terms and standards of the court and the terms laid down in 1,◯4. and 8 mg. Article of temporary VI in the legislation on the standards of public remuneration. In this way, rural society is assumed to be responsible for the continuation of due days meet the relevant conditions of the bill. The aim is to recommend that in the 2020 C.E. a fund-fixed budget is provided that a minister be allowed to negotiate with Iceland's Secret Bank to provide loans further to provide additional loans to companies that have suffered significant losses due to the colony's pandemic. It is assumed that Iceland's Secret Bank is responsible for the loan institutions they use to provide additional loans to their customers who qualify. In accordance with this source it is assumed that Iceland's Secret Bank will provide loans with support in the form of loan lines or responsibilities provided by additional loans to clients who meet the requirements. This is a specific tool that will not be subject to State responsibilities laws, although responsibility would not be granted directly from the government fund. In order to eliminate any doubt that the state - responsibilities law is not relevant to such commitments, it is suggested that a new provision of a new provisional law allowing state funds to make such agreements with the Secret Bank is not generally valid when the decision is made to provide general economic support to the companies. The economic scope of such responsibilities on the Federal Bank would also be set aside in terms of financial contributions. It is suggested that at the U.S. County Bank laws there be an added provision to ensure that the bank will be granted adequate relief to negotiate with the State Fund for the Agency's credit services so that they can provide additional loans to companies that have suffered significant losses due to the pandemic, as the state fund guarantees the failure of the bank from that economy. It is assumed that Iceland's Secret Bank is supported by loan agencies in the form of responsibilities and provides additional loans to clients who meet conditions. In a contract with the state's funds, there will be a defined goal and conditions for the payment provided. They're evaluated by the impact of the bill. The estimates of the projections are a combined negative rate of 8.4 billion this year, less than 8 billion next year, 3.6 billion in 2022, and 1,900 million in 2023. The overall effect is approximately 8.4 billion this year, less than 8 next year, etc. Of course, here we need to keep in mind that the effects on the treasure of the Kingdom now being revealed to us in many areas. Through automatic fluctuation, we'll be dealing with a very high impact. It was headed for any angle in the state's wealth and obvious that it will become considerable. In this automatic way, the government fund is softening the decline. The wealth of money is more sensitive to the average rise in rioting. I think there's reason to know here that the fluctuation is more important here than in most places. Hence, the balance of the state's funds is a major factor. I could then list other effects from government measures such as what we see going into the cutback system, investments that we are going to discuss here on a budget bill that is new expenditures this year to 15 billion, leaving aside what public companies go into, and then it's for the effects of the budgets we could add. I draw attention to this when considering the assessment of the effects of this bill in the context of the entire operation. A respectable president. I have considered all the major issues of this matter and suggested that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u3	Mr. President. I believe that these measures, e.g. The continuation of public pay and insurance fees and the approval of the approval of the Parliament's non-employment fees is of utmost importance. But they are general, and they are temporary. I'm worried about companies that are in total freezing, and I've been giving up on people, and I'm worried about farms that are particularly relevant to this situation. The non-employment, the basic non-employment that comes to people after three months of unemployment is now less than 290,000. If we take Sonyanestown in particular, we had 11% unemployment there, and the unemployment there in January had already become very high. So there are a lot of people who are going to go to basic non-employment improvements on April 1. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Minister is not available to raise unemployment improvements at least to the minimum currently available, according to contracts, 335,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u4	A respectable president. In our actions, we are trying to cope with further unemployment. I believe we have a very clear operation for that purpose. We're actually urging companies to reduce their employment rate and that government funds take on their pay expenses. These are the most extensive measures we have ever taken to prevent unemployment and to support people who would otherwise have fallen onto unemployment records. I'm going to have to tell you about a lot of concerns about enterprises that are in big trouble with income losses, that, of course, we expect the business banks to be on the side of business which have been behind the years and even decades. Similarly, we assume that owners where appropriate support their communities. The state is here to bring a very large deposit. It is important that we receive clear answers from business banks about the way they are going to enter this picture. Similarly, rural communities have a role, and in the months that follow, we need to assess the situation, whether there is enough work to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u5	Mr. President. I understand the highest answers. So a minister does not stand to raise his unemployment rates or to meet people who have to run their homes as if their companies were up to a certain business, rent, fever, and electricity, etc. It is obvious that when a number of people in a particular community have to live in less than 290,000 k. During a month, there is a lot of trouble, and the rural communities have to cope with the problem, communities that are already affected by a loss of income and an increase in cost to the situation. I challenge the highest. Government to raise unemployment rates, at least to a minimum of 335,000 k., or to a minimum of 1st April. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for paydays of a merit tax, April 5th. I also worry about companies who have to deliver them, even with a high amount of money, and it's not mentioned in this unit not to postpone, even if only part of them pay. I'm asking the highest. Minister if that's possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u6	A respectable president. In terms of worth taxes, we've been looking out for the local pay, the insurance bill, the export costs, and we're assessing if there's to be a further step. In terms of unemployment benefits, I would like to remind you that this government increased unemployment rates less than two years ago by less than 20%, less than 20% in one step. Our action at this point is to avoid the age of unemployment that was seen and we are, instead of taking on the unemployment registry and increasing the benefits there, simply to take over a large portion of the pay paid by people who would otherwise have been unemployed. These things need to be placed in some context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u7	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill to legalize economic impacts following a pandemic crown virus. There's a lot of cool stuff in there, but it's missing too. I am most concerned with large groups of older citizens and disability who are paid for 221,438 k. per month. This group pays $3351 a.m. which will be at the end of the week. So I ask the highest. Financial Minister: Is not it time to help these individuals, e.g. to make sure that one day they do not pay the answer, and the State and their communities take on their efforts to ensure that these individuals have basic needs? We know that those who receive 221,000. The payments don't have to pay all the expenses, that's for sure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u8	A respectable president. Well, here's the question. A senator on a case that's not in this bill. He asks about the situation of those who are singled out in the country, but it is not easy to see that their situation has changed in some basic aspect of the pandemic, even though we must consider in this community and that the negative effects of the virus cannot be excluded for each Iceland. On the other hand, I believe that that's what happened. A senator introduces himself as part of another and a broader discussion about the social security system. I fully agree that in the steps we are now introducing, which are economic measures for virus spread, the social security improvement system was not entered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u9	A respectable president. I just have to say, I'm afraid I disagree completely with the highest degree. Secretary of finance in this regard. It's not just about destroying the social security system, it's about being fair. This is about the fact that we have to realize that those who have lived long at 221,000 will. down payment is the most sensitive to this virus. These are the people who have not been able to get proper food. They all know that it is difficult to live solely on rice and oatmeal. These people do not buy salts, vitamins, and things that they really need. You have been shown to prevent the intake of electrolytes, vitamin C and vitamin D. These people can't afford it. They can afford a place to live, and then they go to relief agencies after meals. They're the people who need help, and we're supposed to help them, just like all the others. These people are not immune to unemployment, we need to take special care of this group because they are the most vulnerable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u10	A respectable president. I'm sure it's a sensitive group, but I think it's a little different than what we're doing right now. In case of a moment. A senator enters the website, entering the basis for uniqueness, with two children, who are about 35 years old, who have no income other than 10,000 bucks. From a pension fund because of the disability, a picture of the support we should be discussing is being drawn up here. The support of such a person who has no employment income but has two children in his home who live alone and who are able to cooperate with their children does not differ greatly from the position of the new person in a labour market. The support is no inferior to the people we are now catching in the part - time line. On the other hand, people in the social security system are scraping their bottoms, and there is reason to be especially concerned. [[The president calls.]] A brain of our social security system plays an incredibly important role.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u11	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. There are two things I would like to introduce in his speech that are involved in this operation, that are participating in banks in these saving operations, and that of the state responsibility of new loans. In my mind, it is to give much attention to banks that have made large money and buy their own letters, and it is to ask whether or not they should insist on their own banks that they return it, i.e. there will be money that could be used to cope with these tragedies. Today, the bank managers have $36.5 million in pay, and it is a question of whether it will remain the same. Then one of the banks, Anion Banki, agreed that I was reminded of a plan for buying at our last main meeting. The bank tax is canceled, and you ask, "What are the shareholders going to do? " How do they get to run the banks? Will they contribute new funds? How will it be certain that all the banks will participate in this lifesaving work regardless of property? It's very important. [[The president calls.]] One bank, Anion Bank, has declared that he is planning to reduce his collection of loans that would obviously work against this program. How is it guaranteed that the banks are involved in this rescue operation, the highest? Minister, regardless of property?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u12	A respectable president. Here we go. A senator considerably entered the position of the big, systematic, important banks and their own money. I think it is quite clear that their own financial status is extremely strong, historical and international, including because of how we have demanded that the banks have a lot of money when we went through the good stuff. Now, there is room to cut off the barriers that are in the financial system and allow them to move more and let their own money go into operation. I think the state banks are doing well in comparison with Arion's banks. With regard to the bank tax, we won't have to charge money, but the bank tax has not directly encouraged banks to grow. This was where people wanted to reduce their account. We've had this tax directly on our debts, the tax was much higher the balance account was bigger, and the debt was bigger.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u13	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister. I have to say, I'm worried. For example, Anion Bank has reduced its mortgage collection and has declared that he is going to reduce it substantially, and it will, of course, work against this program. This is something that needs to go over. With regard to the Kingdom guarantee of new loans and terms on the subject, this is to my judgment of speciality, which will become all too complex and increase the risk of great conflict of interest, except for the lack of transparency. I believe it is necessary to simplify this process, and I direct my recommendation to the minister and the committee that it will be done. In my opinion, the state responsibility does not seem to be a very big step in this unprecedented situation, and I ask: How will these responsibilities be handled? I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to review it. Is it assumed that loans are needed, that the bets are as divided between banks and the state, or that the bank keeps it all to itself? [[The president calls.]] How long will the Kingdom guarantee be?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u14	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator when he says the system can't get too complicated. In that case, we should not be too busy getting money. The rules of the game need to be very clear, so a business bank does not have to question whether conditions are met when the rules are to be expected. Ella is at risk of not getting answers that are one of the worst things that happen under these circumstances. I don't know about conflicting interests. There may be reason to worry about them, and I encourage the committee to go into it. As to conditions, I would like to say that we have lower standards than the average in the North countries, with about 50 percent of the income loss reported. We're saying a 40% blowout. There is greater access to payment, although the state's responsibilities are up to 50%, not 70%, as far as there are. I expect a relative responsibility or a so - called pro to find responsibility, so if a loan eventually does not collect the parties, the business bank, and the state funds, with the result. [[The president calls.]] We are talking about Kingdom responsibilities that would be in effect for 18 months.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u15	Madam President. In the previous answer, I wondered mainly why a valuable supplementation tax would have been left out in action on possible payoffs on public expenses. I'm a little worried about these factors, and I might also be at the same time about the so-called customs business, where it's actually just added extra fee days, but there's another 20% extra hours on half the money. The payment flow will simply dry up over the next few weeks and months, so it is very important that the state of the state in its position take a small risk now in the business. In the end, it's about taking risks with the job to protect jobs, to accomplish it as much as possible that the job life will be as powerful as possible when we get out of this virus. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Would it not have been advisable to consider general spendings on all public fees, at least during the emergency period we are dealing with for the next two to three months? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u16	A respectable president. We're looking at the merit tax. Men are likely to look to the due date of April 5th. The honor tax is a bit special in that the companies are actually in the role of his retailor for a government fund. The recovery of tax and internal taxes in different periods is different from the other taxes we've been discussing to postpone. In particular, I have requested that we consider how companies with financial savings may be helped in such circumstances. Actually, I don't have anything else to say about this case at this point but that we're looking at it, and there's a good way to take further steps on the merit tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u17	Madam President. Thank you very much. The minister's reply, and he is happy to see that this is the case. I think there must be a more general view. However, it can be kept in mind that, of course, the local pay is also a kind of fiscal tax in that way in order to pull the companies off and keep the standard pay and then deliver it to the state fund. That's a deadline. I think the value of the extra tax and, in fact, the customs can also easily fall under these measures. Second of all, I'm concerned about the misunderstanding around Article one. ... ona deadline at the local payment. It defines a fixed financial status at the end of 2019, and most companies have annual accounts for that period. The companies are slightly left behind with the risk of evaluating the government tax manager so late that they have failed to meet the conditions of pay deadlines, they should be reimbursed under stress. I suppose there's some kind of death sentence for those companies at that point. [[The president calls.]] Why were such rigid and complex standards for emergency operations nearly three months ago? Is it not more true that we use broad strokes here and take greater risks with our professional life?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u18	A respectable president. The question is, why? The answer is: Because we don't want companies who don't need loans now. As much as there is to be more to it, the wealth of the state will be added to help those in need. I don't quite agree that it's complicated. We say: We are not going to evaluate this for the companies. We are not going to review every application. We are going to put it into the hands of the companies to evaluate their status on the basis of these terms, and people are free to postpone payment. If it turns out that humans were not in the kind of need that has been defined, they will suffer the consequences. Whether any burdensome wood laws should arise when people are on the thresholds and were in accordance with all the proper guidelines for good faith is considered. I felt that there should not be some form of penalties. This is an attempt to do this indiscriminately, to pretend to be able not to review all applications, but to display the criteria and say to the companies: we accept the deadline of three days this year, and we will give additional deadlines if necessary beyond the trip period of 2021. However, the line must lie somewhere because experience shows that if a loan is offered at a government fund, it too will be accepted by those who do not need it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u19	Madam President. I want to start by saying I'm glad we got some surgery. Although I feel that they are somehow limited, there are many of them that are good in this corrosion. The share-of-employment benefits we did last week are really important and are for the maintenance of employment relationships between working people and employers and somehow trying to get over the current situation. But I have said so, last in unprepared queries we have the highest. Financial and economic ministers, I'm really worried about people who don't already have no contracts, they're just on unemployment. They land for the first three months in 70% of their income but go to the top of 456,000. 3 months at 290,000 K. per month. Clearly, a home with such income cannot drive, and this group needs to be considered. It's not that much money, it's not that the government can't handle it, but it would be to run homes in great difficulty, so I'll use a new language on a business, over this difficult period. I was disappointed with the answers I received. A minister earlier when he failed to accept the importance of raising his unemployment rates from 290,000 k. to the minimum rate of April 1st, 335,000. I hope that there will be a review and that this group will be specifically reviewed. In areas where unemployment is high - e.g. is unemployment in Smokejanestown 11% already, today, and there is no use for them - will test the social services, in local communities where these are so. It is the duty of the government to look to these people and their circumstances when such a dive occurs that we are going through. Madam President. For the string, it's 1st and 2nd. ... theimprovement of public pay and insurance fees, and that's just very nice. But I'm worried about the travel service, especially because I think it's going to need some specific help. In particular, I am concerned about companies who are running out of business in this condition or are left out in this condition, key companies that can't fail fast and safely when we travel again, and we won't be able to receive as many visitors as we would have liked to. I challenge the government to consider specific measures that might be involved in hotels, hostels, and even flights and to discuss with the EFTA clinic how such measures can be used. There's nothing wrong with them. I agree with it with the highest. Minister, it's important to draw up these scenarios. Section 3. does not have to pay in advance in 2020 because of income in 2019, and it's extremely good and important, as there is a loss of income for so many people that it's not fair to make money from last year to year. The "B" team then talks about the children's benefits, and I really think this is a good idea because children need to be treated in particular under these circumstances. But I would've liked to have my child's benefits higher, and we're going to go over it to the Economic and Business Committee. In Comb 4. is about customs law and the only comment I have on that article is that commands in the a- team are also directed to ships. I totally understand the flight, but why do we have to apply these principles on a ship? I'm guessing sooner we'll consider this on the Committee. In the 5th. it's a law for all to work. It is a law well - known and was used in the collapse with good results. It's stretched out there, and I like most of those actions. However, it is important to consider on the Committee whether the aims of a decomposition tax on family assistance and care are to be met. The objective is to provide specific resources for homes that need assistance, and it is important to consider which homes are involved and to consider whether this is a priority in the position in which we are now in. They're supposed to cancel the host's fee and it's supposed to last for two years. I don't know how important that procedure is, but I don't make comments to her in this position. Then there is the payment of the special savings provided in Article 7. I warn people that they are taking out their superintendent special kickouts that are supposed to be older. Of course it may be useful in an emergency, e.g. We do business at home, and I'm probably taking advantage of this arrangement, but I encourage people to think about it before future incomes are made new. In turn, this law is responsible for the increase in income in both countries and rural communities, and it may therefore be contained within the tenormins. Then I want to talk about 9. where the collapse of the bank tax should be accelerated. We in the United States have said that it is not time to cancel the bank tax while the debt has not been paid. There are various ways in which the banks will be equipped to face the executives. Of course, it is important that the banks do not have the resources to do so and that companies will not be driven by banks under these circumstances. The fluctuation equation is removed. There are bridge loans where the risks are taken from the state by banks from loans. We need to consider it on the Committee whether it is a similar risk both for business banks and for the State, whether the risk is similar or not. Then there's a decrease in the bank tax. I reiterate that it is important to make sure that the banks have a T-minus to do what needs to be done in this position. V.E.G. Financial and economic minister here declared that the owners of Iceland and U.S. Bank will not be willing to require interest. It is very important that you also have this requirement for Arion's bank. I don't know how to do that, I suppose we'll look at it on both committees, but of course it would be completely annoying in these situations if the money was even higher. There's almost any requirement for a certain period of complete minimum, I don't talk about filing in these circumstances. Of course, the committees need to consider how these requirements can be met. In the 10th. ...and I think it's necessary. It's just that it's all right. 1 1. It also aims toward the rural communities where they are given the opportunity to meet companies with either a delay in the payment of a property tax or some changes in them. I think it is important that these factors also apply to the people who have to run their homes through poor income or hard - earned unemployment benefits, that they meet homes for property taxes, as well as rent payments to meet those who have to pay rent. This will, of course, affect the income and expenses of our rural society, and all of this will require that the situation of the rural community be examined in this respect. The rurals care for close - ups, high school management, disabled and elderly services, and those gain weight during this time. At the same time, income decreases, so the whole matter needs to be considered in context. I believe that at the end of the day, the account that falls there on public bodies, both countries and rural groups, will be made up. In between 12 and 13. is about the bridge loans, and I like that idea very much. As I told you earlier, the responsibilities must still be considered, whether they are parallels between the banks and the state. Madam President. The final result of this rapid crossing over the corrosion is that this is not enough. Special attention must be given to the travel services and homes of those in trouble. Children's benefits need to be increased and unemploymented. You need to be careful of the rural areas that suffer from loss of income and an increase in cost. We need to give a chance to postpone the value tax, where pay date is April 5, and I hope there is a special inspection. Although the value tax may be different from taxes and other fees, there must be some way to meet people and businesses and they need to make demands for companies that are helped and banks that gain additional funds and a decrease in taxes that will not be paid in any form or form of remuneration. Madam President. This is a very unusual time, and we may as well expect the council to be sent home at some point. Meanwhile, we don't need senators to be careful about the democracy and work hard this week, considering making adjustments to this bandorm that we believe is necessary or put in a statement that hopefully is close to an agreement on what needs to be considered better in the immediate future. We need to take action, as we have just been here for a short time, but we must also consider the future. That is where we need to learn from this experience. The big lesson has already come to pass, but it is no doubt that we will be going through more in the weeks and months. The big lesson is that we need a more varied job life in Iceland. We need more support for the future, which means that we need to contribute more money to innovation, development, and education. There must be future priorities when we are building ourselves up after this dip, and most important, our health needs to be strong, and we must strengthen it even more. It's about national security. It's in the front of our defenses when we're in the middle of a disaster like we do now. We need to keep it strong at all times in order to cope with each type of tragedy. Madam President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u20	A respectable president. We here discuss a bill to correct measures to meet economic impacts following the pandemic crown virus and the measures taken. There are good things in there, but there are so many things missing too. I noticed in the talk the highest. Secretary of finance earlier spoke of the main concern of business and employment. I can certainly say that it is very important. Above all, though, homes are involved. I say for my part that if home is burned up by inflation or if there is no other way to ensure that the home survives, we know that there will be little business. When the start comes, it will be the homes that can get the economy started, but out there's a big group, way too big, that can't do it, not even today. This group is terrified now because it is the worst out of the collapse group, fearing their existence, their home, or just surviving, whether they have food or drugs. It's a terrible situation, and in that position no one should be. Sadly, it is all too large, 30,000,400,000 people, who are in and below poverty limits. A large group inside are also in poor condition. V.E.G. Secretary of finance said that he went to the TR website and entered that I have a single mother with two children and took her as an example of the quality of her social security status. I can't agree with that. There's no great situation to be right about 300,000 bucks. Paying with two children and having to care for both homes and food, being alone. The same is true of others who try to survive 221,000K. The strangest thing in all of this, it's sort of weird, and needs a serious investigation, is why these people pay an answer or a tax. Why is it that for decades we can be taxing poverty, even in very poor ways? Sadly, in this case there is no such thing. In this bill, the bank tax is taken out with one line of pens. I would have liked it to have been done, too, with those who need most of their money today, those in the lowest pensions, but that's not part of the equation. Something else inside of this equation is a very strange case. I don't even understand how this can get into this team, and that's number 2 in Unit 3. g., 20,000 with each child within 18 years for those over 11,125.455 k. in pay - the second one. We're talking about high-priority people. Is anyone going to tell me here that it needs to be? We need, as members of the council, 20,000 bucks. From the State because we have children? How in the hell is it in there? I want this out and that money goes directly to those who really need it. It's hard to believe that at the same time as you're protecting that nothing has been inserted into the pensioners and the desperate people who really need it, there's nothing in the problem, that it's being in, like, 20,000 bucks. for those who do not need it. 40,000 k. For those under there, it's cool. These are child damages, and, as a result, they will not cut down the entire stairways of the insurance system, much less in chain-mutations that remain one ugly spot on the social security system, where people are being cut off completely into very low levels. Then there is the provision of special property savings. All right for those who can, but there is also that same group, a large group with no special property. Where is the help for them inside this? She's not there, and then you must ask, "Why not? " Why the hell is there nothing in there? At the same time, there's only 5,000 in there. Check every man's baby. There is money, but that money doesn't go to the right place. Then, for example. I don't think certain people I think were a lot of concern, leisure settlements that are renting out to foreign tourists. Farmers and individuals have built up their work and have a fixed period each year of rent, quit in the fall, and start in the springtime. I fear for this group, and it's kind of strange that it's not being handled better. Then, most important, what I don't get and don't understand is why the inadequacy is immediately attacking the potential inflation killer that triggers and overrides the homes. In the collapse, 10,000,12,000 homes burned up, and the people who fell under it have tried to build themselves up. Fear is there. This government must immediately strike this fear and give a declaration that it will not be. For some reason, she does not want to do so, saying that we need not fear inflation. It's pretty weird to say in Iceland that we don't have to worry about the inflation because it's been our ghost for a long time. I think now is kind of a chance. Now, it would have been a great opportunity just to take the insurance out of an apartment loan, to make sure it doesn't exist. If there was a will, it would be done, but there is no will for this government to do this. She seems to focus mainly on business and employment. It's fine, it's just fine, but we can't forget the people out there. Also, I do not understand why the church's relief work, the Family Help Committee, or the Fed Committee that would not fully ride a government fund, has not been installed to ensure that anyone needing help will receive it and also to ensure that those living in the country can also be helped if they need it. It seems somehow that it is not included in the government package to care for the smaller groups and to stay in the long run in economic starvation at the most dangerous risk. This has been demonstrated and has been proved that poverty is a loss and cost to society, a major cost because the health - system is seriously affected by the risk. The risk is higher in this population to be exposed to this virus. Therefore, this group should be protected, making sure that the virus is not affected and that it is not at home fearful without medication, without food, without hygiene. The newest numbers show, if you can believe, that electrolytes, vitamin C and vitamin D are the life-saver. I think I just believe it. I always take light, and I think that's the best thing to do. This is what we've been able to see to it that everyone had this, but unfortunately, it's not. I'm not going to keep this far beyond what I'm saying, I'm reasonably satisfied with what's been done but incredibly unhappy with what's not being done. I don't understand why, on earth, this government will leave the people in the greatest distress and need the help most. If that's what it's gonna be, it's gonna cost a lot more money for government funds to do this than save it. Then the government will have to answer, too, why this group will not receive the help that is being offered and will be left out alone once more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u21	Madam President. The Central Party welcomes all the economic actions that have fallen to improve the position of people and businesses in the unprecedented situation we have come to because of the Covid-19 epidemic. It is important that we act quickly and that we work together to minimize the economic losses we face. The Central Party has offered specific suggestions on these topics, and I hope the government is using them. I'll get them in later in my case. Before I enter the unique subject of the bill, I wanted to mention specifically that McKinsey's consulting firm published last week's new analysis and scenarios for economic recession due to the Covid-19 virus. The first stage shows that for countries that rely on tourism as one of the most profitable tools under their economic systems, economic recovery would not be seen until first, at any time next year. There is evidence that this can be the case, and we need to be prepared for it. The usual picture assumes that long - standing contractions, that the virus continues to spread in 2020, that the impact on the world's economic system would be more severe and similar to the financial crisis of 2008◯2009. The land production in most countries would decrease dramatically, and economic recovery would not begin until about the mid - 2021 years. Some experts believe that what lies ahead is no less than in the 1929 global crisis. We hope, of course, that it will not, and the virus will disappear as soon as it appears. One thing is certain, there is great uncertainty, and there is no way we can tell when the epidemic will go down and how fast economic systems will recover. We're talking not just about the international travel services but about supply and demand in general. The current bank manager believes that it will take the travel service 6◯12 months to resume the application procedure. I'm sorry, but we don't know when that time period can begin. We do not know how long travel restrictions will take or other restrictions on meeting attendance in general. It is not only our tourism, which has become our most important industry, which is seriously damaged by this process but the way of the sea has been seriously affected. Selling fresh fish has stopped. Last year, we sold fresh fish in a foreign market for 80 billion dollars. In addition, the fragrant deficiency that also results in excessive loss of income is not to be overlooked. Thus, the job needs to be supported by all available means. A bill on the subject is an important step. It is not the largest economic operation in history, as the government leaders have said, but we in the Central Group are celebrating any action to benefit the companies and the homes of the country, who would have wanted to go further on these topics. These include the insurance bill, for example, and other factors. It is not enough for companies to be able to postpone payment when there is no income in the box. The insurance bill has to be dropped until the end of the year. The government's main provisions are about to postpone half of the government's standard pay for a month and then a bill on unemployment insurance and its involvement in part-time work. It is very important that people who have to reduce their employment rate get unemployment improvements in line with a poor employment rate in order to improve their income. The central category welcomes this plan, which made significant changes during the council but reminds us that it will not be useful to the non-employed companies. We need to keep our companies alive and that as many as possible keep their jobs. Everyone has to get on and on. You also have to face those who were out of work for the epidemic, even falling out of recovery. The period of unemployment needs to be extended, as was the case in the crash. Government officials have learned that its package of action due to the economic impact of the epidemic is measured at 230 billion dollars. In this number, there are some things that do not come directly from the government box, such as the bank's loans, the continuation of public pay payments, and the selection of special savings. The fact that the government puts it this way will bring no benefit and will fail to disappoint the general population in a situation where many people are anxious. In a three-year period, it's a total of less than 60 billion bucks. I'm cheering for the whole campaign to win. Full reimbursement tax from new constructions and maintenance of real estate is an important step that has previously made good results. Of course, the children's roof is positive as far as it goes. The height, however, could have been higher. The actions of other nations must be carefully monitored. We need not fear finding new solutions. For example, in the New York Times of America, there was an example. Interesting report recently based on conversations with well - known experts who have come to terms with economic crisis. One of the solutions there was credit for all enterprises, large and small, both monotonous and private. She assumes that interestless loans would be provided up to five years after the epidemic ended. The loan would be dependent on the conditions where 90% of employees maintain their jobs. Indeed, working to keep the job is a big thing, and those who have already lost their jobs are not to be forgotten, as I mentioned. Sadly, the power of the government has to keep tight in mind the growing number of people. As I say, it is urgent to extend the period of recovery. The Central Party suggests a similar way as I traced credit money to an enterprise, i.e. that the state gives direct financial support to enterprises in proportion to the number of employees who keep their jobs. State responsibility for loans to enterprises, so-called bridge loans, as discussed in chapters 12 and 13. The bill, it's a step in the right direction. This approach, however, is too complicated and may therefore be too late. It is important that these loans serve the purpose for which they are intended and that they transvestruct states, especially in view of the considerable risk of state funds, and there are taxpayers who are about to lend themselves to companies in trouble. Not to be overlooked. The bill does not say anything about agriculture, and it is a real disappointment because when the epidemic shakes over all the community's foundations, the importance of domestic food production and food security remains. Imported food is expected to increase prices in the coming weeks, and financial secretary has specifically introduced it. Hopefully, those who have cried out learn what the most important thing is to reduce their support of Icelandic agriculture and import from food. The central category stresses that there will be a special support for European food production through farms and the work environment of this article revised already by the government's permission to take measures to protect its own production. I challenge the government to give special support to farmers. They are of great importance to the nation in these "critical times hard to deal with. " There's no mention of national housing loans in the bill. If the crown's gang changes are made to decrease quickly and we're getting inflation shots, we're gonna die soon. The gang has already given in to it in a short time. It is important to simplify the regular work when it comes to recycling the mortgage. These include, in terms of payment, the ability to offer loans and loans to allow people to make use of the decrease in interest of interest and reduce the amount of payment, e.g. by being able to exchange securable loans in a simple way to infidelity. This is one of nine suggestions that the Central Party has proposed to deal with the unprecedented situation in which we are living. I encourage the government to take good care of this. In addition, the government has to be prepared to remove the index price of consumers from a relationship. In the event of inflation, the situation must become worse. The problem with these proposals, Madam President, in general, and I hope that they will be improved by the Committee's work, that they could go further and that they need to be simplified. They are too complicated for my judgment, which can delay their performance, and this is most unfortunate because the situation changes from day to day. Actually, we don't know what the situation will be tomorrow or the next day. Of course, we in the media support these suggestions as far as they can go, and we will bring our ideas to the work of the Committee, which I hope they will look forward to. I'm asking for a good cooperation on that subject, and I think that everyone is willing to solve this case as fast as possible. Once again, I encourage the government classes to look with an open mind toward the government's opposition when it comes to the perplexing criticism of these proposals and to listen to what the government's stand has to offer and look at all the matters in these matters, with the simple thought that we can face these difficult situations in a handsome way so that all who come to grieve because of these unprecedented circumstances may think that governments, the World Council, are working with integrity to minimize the damage we face. I'd like to finally encourage the government to celebrate, wish her well-being on a difficult assignment, and encourage her to take advantage of what we've done here, and what the government's going to offer on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u22	President. We are here going to discuss economic impacts following the pandemic crown virus. These suggestions have been developed in the Ministry of Economics for some time and were first introduced on Saturday, first for the Council of Government and then two hours for the public at a press conference. The proposals came before the Council fully developed and ready to be paid for what seems to be the case. A week ago, a meeting of the directors of all classes was held at the General Assembly discussing measures to meet the impact of Covid-19 in Icelandic society, in the Icelandic economy. Shortly after the meeting, the media reported that the government was preparing a so - called giant package to save the Icelandic economy. This surprised us, for our representative had just arrived from a meeting where it seemed like no package was in progress and everything was still in the early stages. Throughout the week, representatives of the minorities tried to get the more part to consult what the government had said she wanted, but everything didn't happen. We received the suggestions fully developed two hours before they became public at a press conference. The government decides whether it operates in this way, but it is more successful when it has been presented with consultations and cooperation to do so. There are other factors that completely undermine confidence in the process. On the other hand, trust is essential if we are to make the most of our success in life. So I hope that my consultation and cooperation will be better during these matters. There are many good things in them, but there are better things to do. I hope the government groups listen and we can work together in these difficult times. Pirates and I will be talking about transparency, and that's for good reason. Involvement in the administrative sector makes her more professional and successful, as well as a sense of confidence in the decisions made in the end. Transparent is not only important during a regular year's journey. It is even more important when adversity strikes. In the absence of transparency and inconsistencies with government action, trust will immediately take place. The collapse should remind us of something fresh. Therefore, good cooperation with all elected representatives is of prime importance in order to make reconciliation for the action to be made. Sadly, members of the council are less responsible for handling the matter at the General Assembly. By ensuring the access of all elected representatives, the representative democracy is activated, thus ensuring a broader agreement on the procedures being carried out. When everyone has an ideal representative at the table, it is far more likely that a general agreement will be made for these measures. We owe everyone to work together in these difficult, vague times. This is key. General on the intervention pack, I'd like to say it's good for the state funds to take action and to respond to the economic problems ahead. Thank you for the message that the people in the country are to be saved. It's a positive thing that we have to defend our most important social infrastructure in the preconceived economic hardships and that the government intends to resist the economy. The total cost of government proposals was said to be 230 billion dollars at a news conference. and thereby the government's largest economic action in Iceland history. Less than 60 billion are expected to come directly from government funds, and the public and companies in the country will be authorized to take $170 billion for the future or to postpone payment, to take out their own special property, and to do so in many ways. The cost of these measures, based on the total cost of 230 billion, not just the state's funds, is said to be 7.8% of land production. When compared with our neighboring countries, it can be seen that we are in a position to balance our spending with our country's production. The so-called baboon of Germany, i.e. loans from the German community bank KfW list more than 17% of national production, i.e. up to 600 billion euro. France has reported state responsibilities on loans to companies that count more than 12% of land production in addition to the 50 billion euro package directed to individuals. A similar loan package in Spain accounts for 16% of national production. The European World Bank has presented measures for the European Union of over 1,000 billion euro. Putting this so - called major economic action in a historical and international context in Iceland makes you wonder if it really is enough. The government has said that she does not know and will respond if it turns out that it is not enough. Of course, it is proper to allow her to have the doubt of this matter, but she helps and supports trust if there was more cooperation with those who have to do this at the council. It's very difficult to do that when you get things fast in your arms without having had the chance to work on them in the early stages. I repeat it. Our economy is already taking a heavy slowdown and can be seen in many places. If the gas supply is not done enough, it may stop too much. The fact is, Iceland is vulnerable to economic problems like this. The tourist industry is largely under Iceland's national income, and it seems that we have, another fall in order, put our eggs in too few baskets, first 2008 in the bank bin and then 2020 in the travel service basket. We are expected to ask, especially because of the uncertainty that results from not knowing when we are going to be diseased. It is not known whether or when travel will take over. One of the key elements of government resistance is the support of tourism, which causes a measure of anxiety. It may be excessive optimism, or the lack of a realistic view that our rescue operation aims to keep the eggs in that same basket instead of spreading to others, to place their eggs elsewhere. We do not know when it will be published, and the actions must have the flexibility that they can adapt to the long - term limit of social relations. This is clear, and this is what is repeatedly pointed out in the international community. The Economist had a weekend work on which it is said that when this social distance has been lifted, the president's permission - if not the so - called herd resistance, whether it is because enough of the population is infected and is at ease or if we are able to wait for the vaccine to come, if you have not returned to the herd resistance, the epidemic may go back. There will be fluctuations up and down, and economic activities must be able to take into account and quickly return to the rush, reducing the rate of the epidemic. The actions proclaimed by the government at their press conference this weekend are ten. They are divided into three categories called defenses, protection, and resistance. Supported, cool, clear. Some measures have already been taken from the Council, including the part - time work that was done in the cooperation of the welfare committee last week. Then we've also provided a bill for pay under aseptic conditions. The changes suggested to legalize this bill as part of the government's actions are a few, postponement of corporate markets and insurance costs. Look, there's a postponement, let's call it a yellow one, it's a break. Then there is the secretary's authority to cancel or reduce the advance payment of income taxation. It's a break again. There's also a special children's aid. There is one of these few examples in which money is directed to individuals, a family of children in this case. We can call it green light. Then there's a temporary down payment on ships and airplanes, so it's a down payment on the tax fee. It's red, they put a stop to the payment. Then comes the delay of dues to transfer fees. There's a postponement, yellow there. It is authorized to reimburse a cost-employment tax due to building and access to reimburse valuable taxes for domestic assistance or housing care. In both cases, the tax is reimbursed. We can say either red if it can be stopped - but, no, it's being taken in and then paid back. Temporary breakdown of host tax is a red operation, deletion, tax recovery stopped. With a temporary warrant for the assessment of property savings, the individual may be allowed to reduce his economic benefits in the future but now take them out. You can take your own money. The decrease in bank tax is accelerated, there's a decrease in tax, stop. Then there is the relaxation of the rural budget, allowing them to have more time to cope with this situation at home in the region. The source is for rural society to postpone the pay of real estates so that rural society can postpone the pay period of real estates, delay them to accumulate and be paid later. There is a state - of - state responsibility for enterprises that have suffered significant loss of income. There is a Kingdom responsibility, and a requirement for the Kingdom can be set up. This can mean expenses from a treasure, no doubt meaning that. There is also permission for the Federal Bank to provide loan agencies with support for additional loans to companies that have suffered significant loss of income. These are loan institutions that provide support from the Federal Bank, and they can loan so that when the company's position is bad, they can get extra loans that actually delay the effect of the situation something into the future. This is a mixed bag of measures. Much of the action has to do with increasing the quality of corporate life by the taxicents, the procreation of payment, the increase in loans, and the responsibilities of the state. It is important to continue ensuring the management of viable enterprises, that is a key to which they are a major factor in maintaining the Icelandic economy. The government that herself has spoken a great deal about being a government, from right to left, does not put more weight on action that would come directly to the aid of individuals. There's two things in there, that people can take out their special savings that will benefit the elderly because they've been collecting it longer, and then there's more child support for those children's families, most of which are young people who have become children. I can't see in this bill direct actions to others. Almost all of the injections are to be passed through companies, even if we know that money directly to individuals can also be a vitamin syringe for the economy. We already see that there is a great cry for an increase in economic activity in behalf of individuals. On the day of the day, the ASI central management concluded additional measures to support the remuneration of less paid people, including are asked for the following financial resources: resources for employees who cannot apply for jobs due to their school or children, increases in unemployment gains, permanent support of the child's recovery system. Official parties, rural partners, tenants, and financial institutions were recommended to show fairness and flexibility in the period of uncertainty, that the government obligatoryly obligatory its debts to companies. If the government intends to give government responsibilities on debt, homes on payment problems will also be granted State responsibility due to loans and other commitments. This is important. That households have the option to postpone the payment of public pay due to financial problems in the same way as those allowing the economy, to temporarily freeze prices, and to facilitate the development of share loans and to increase the growth of public apartments. This is all economic activities that could at the same time promote the economy and benefit individuals and households. Pirates and I believe it is necessary that the Allied Parliament and the Government take into account this ASI conclusion in their work, both in this matter of Congress and in further economic procedures. Young people, people in part - time work, older citizens, students, desperate people, and unemployed are also groups of people who have not received clear answers about their status and future. All of these are groups who had little help in the last collapse and were left behind, as we know, and many have not been asked to make that compensation. [[The president calls.]] We're going to win this thing at the council, and I'm going to say again that we have to have more access to the situation if we're to do it well and in the best sense of agreement, based on trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u23	Madam President. I want to thank you first. Secretary of finance earlier, but on this occasion, I would like to introduce to you a few things that I think would be necessary to look at. The Economic and Business Committee, where the case will be referred later today. The scene I would like to turn in to begin with the scores set according to the bill discussed here on the actions to cope with economic impacts following a pandemic crown virus, as it is called. It's a tapeworm, as the material shows, and I'm going through the bill for an explanation, so there's a better context in what's being said here. What 1str. I would like to mention the definition given there. When assessing if there is a loss of income, the balance should be based on at least One-third of the loss in business income for more than one month compared to the same month 2019. Then, with the permission of a president, he goes on to say: It is not a problem, although there is a loss of income, if the payer has enough money to collect loans on a public market or if he has sufficient hand - to - hand funds to cover expenses for his business during his paydays. That's the second paragraph I want to draw attention to and make a comment. It is strange if the message from the council in the current situation is that employers are to be released and put away free funds before any problems can be defined so as to solve the problem. The paragraph is relatively clear and leaves a small scope for definition. It is simply said: "It is not difficult to deal with a loss of income if there is a pay payment on cash available to pay the bills that have fallen on dues. ' This means that the country's companies should put out every cent available in the accounts of the company before the solutions, which are turned out. to postpone the payment of public pay, to come. Congress cannot send this message. Anyone who has had a business or who has an understanding of business knows the importance of cash in a position like this. We can't divorce it this way, and it has to be fixed. The Economic and Business Committee, we cannot broadcast this message to an enterprise that while they have some free money on the accounts of the company, the union will not be defined as having a problem. I wanted to say that on this occasion. On the one hand, this text suggests that if a payer has enough money to get his own credit money, he should not be defined as a problem. Happily, many societies have assets and other assets that can be mortgaged, but their own money is largely bound in possessions that cannot be transformed into cash within the day. This text suggests that there is not much understanding of the position in which an Icelandic company is standing at the moment. This is what I wanted to say about 1st par. and I hope in case of what? The Economic and Business Committee will be able to reset this view of problems because this is not acceptable. Next time, I'd like to come in on the fourth floor. that discuss a change in customs law. It shows that people paying for the export fees will be reimbursed for a two-month runoff period of approximately 20 days beyond what the current rule order says. I don't think this is a bit different, but not money regarding the business position of these partners. On this occasion, however, I would like to point out that this operation appears to be worth 14 billion in total impact on the government's presentation. Saturday at The Fart. Delaying half of the import and import costs of enterprises by 20 Almanac days does not leave much oxygen in the system. To form the car article and the other importer, I would think of them. Next time I'd like to name 5. that discuss a change in the law on honors, the so - called " Everybody Works Directives. " I think it's very good that this law is renewed or added to the solution we know and have been used before. But I'd like to direct it to what it is. The Economic and Business Committee is to investigate the implementation of other aspects of the economy. I'd like to mention again, for example. Around the 2008 collapse, people held back in much of the maintenance work of homes and businesses, in repairs, and in maintenance of vehicles. There is a tendency for such projects to enter the garages here and there, instead of being carried out on farms that are designed to do so. In this context, I think it would be wise to consider extending the approach to more sectors, and in this regard, I specifically mention the section of the car. There's another thing I'd like to mention in terms of respectability for our communities. I think there'd be a reason why. The Economic and Business Committee should seriously examine whether there is no reason to add a reimbursement to the SEC on the rural system. It is a project that can get started quickly and is largely efficient in the rural areas that have their projects ready and designed. There are, though, some of them, so it would be wise to examine them. The last item I'd like to mention as a matter of respect comes to the due date of April 6th. I agree with the highest. The minister of finance in what was going on earlier today during his discussion, which, in effect, said that the merit of the extra tax was physically indiscriminate to what was being paid off. I don't intend to spend time explaining the difference, but I actually agree with it. Now, however, the situation is very unusual, and that is why I would like to direct it to the Economic and Business Committee to review this one cycle of pay which is the next day of remuneration, April 6, because this will require a considerable number of accounts published by companies that have not been paid. I believe that there will be a rather high ratio that is the case, and the situation is that a business company will issue an account and that they should return the worth of it, but the account will actually only move on the off-limits in accounting. The company needs to be put out of the account but has not yet received the merit bonus back into its business of unsupervised accounts at that time. I think there's a good reason to look at this one cycle in particular, without having an updated suggestion, to consider if there's any reason to put it into some postponing phase without having to deviate from the point of view that I can see and agree and always think about it. When I talk about driving and motor vehicles being a major tax hit in Iceland, I always think I'm worth the extra cash in that relationship. I understand the view that the increase in values is physically similar to the other fees listed here, but these unprecedented circumstances give us every reason to examine it specifically. What 6. I am happy that, even if it is temporary, the host's fee is canceled. Personally, I think we should cut down the old price permanently, but hopefully it'll be a future operation. It's like the highest. The government has made such clear that this is the first step, at least, hopefully by many who must take the lead in dealing with the situation. To see positive, I also rejoice that the host's fee will drop to the end of 2021. Seven. is about the special property savings. This will open up access to 12 billion for the owners of special property savings, with various technical implementations. It should be said that this is at the same time the commercial and rural income sources that reduce the net impact of the emissions from the state fund during the procedures presented in the Harpa. If it's 12 billion, the tax effects are expected back in 46.5 billion, but I think it's not long before we have to take up the question of whether the special savings is necessary or not. I'm a follower of this operation, but we're quick to open up for this one. This was done in the economic collapse and correction and then again now. The effect is that when these temporary economic events are over, people tend to zero their position in terms of speciality. Then I want to come in on 1 1 1. at the end. It's turning to the income stocks of a community and I'm celebrating that extraction. I think it would be wise to temporarily cut off the two criteria involved in the debt and the management status of the local communities and to support the rest of our mind that it is being done materially in the above way. It has been observed that there are widespread doubts as to whether these first actions of the government have been far enough. I'm glad that the government has been made clear that it does not consider it a complete operation and a final procedure. Rather, it is the first step by more. I encourage the government and the highest. The secretary of finance to consider it until later a comparable meeting with the person held at the Harpa on Saturday. In this context, I have doubts about how long it has been gone, even if it is only a first step, and I want to mention an insurance bill and a general need to lower taxes. The built - in equilibrium of a tax system that has been referred to as the last few days is due to the lower levels clearly reducing taxes rapidly. The tax came from all ties in the current year's journey if the built - in fluctuations were not in the system. Finally, I want to say what has been said many times during these last days, that it is less risky to do too much than too little these days, and I encourage the government to approach it in that way. Toward the end of my speech, I reiterate what I said at the beginning, that is not going to work, as stated in Article 1. this bill, leaving a company behind with the message that there is no problem, as long as there is a drop in income, if a payer has enough money to collect loans on the market, or if he has sufficient hand-to-hand funds to cover his expenses when he goes into labor. There's a message that the country's business is about to clean itself up with cash before it is seized in order to be evaluated in a problem. [[The president calls.]] I see at the top. The secretary of finance doesn't completely agree with my interpretation. I hope it's wrong, but that's what it says here. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u24	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for the history of these first resorts or the first resort for the economy. There's a lot of things in there, and I'm not going to spend a lot of time on an invitation, but I'm certainly pointing out what might be done better. I think it's a good thing to remember that this is not a time for political superiors. This is not the time for some fanfare campaign on political parties or such. This is the time when all of us should join forces, sheath the swords, and make sure that we are doing what we should be doing here at all times, winning land and nation benefit. There are two things that I pause in the first round of this matter, one of which is the focus of payment on the public fees for an enterprise. I welcome the payment deadlines given there for local payment. I believe this strategy can benefit a great many companies quite well. We can see the extent of the problem when we see, for example. A statement from Iclanda today, as I think it may quickly be that about 97% of the workers go to a severely impaired employment ratio or are quit. Fortunately, much less part of the resignation letter is received, but about 5% of the workers are given the information and 92% more are due to a severely impaired work ratio. This shows the extent of the problem, and there is simply no recipe book to resolve the problem. This is quite a different problem for the majority of jobs and homes than in the collapses, although at the end of the year the economic impact could be as serious as it was. We simply look at the absolute difference that more than a decade ago, when we were on our way into the great economic collapse, the majority of the world's economic situation continued from month to month in some sort of bridge. If the banking system is suspended, which eventually collapsed in one night, there was a vast majority of jobs in themselves for months to come, well in the second year we could say that this crisis was happening. Here, however, we look at a total lack of income for the majority of our jobs looking to the next two to three months at the least and no doubt a little more difficult for tourism. So I think we just need to be careful that the solutions from a collapse do not necessarily fit into this. A lot of this is fine, but I think there's a lot of things to be sharpened. I watch the emergency operations for the first three months as top priority in the Senate this week. Here are a number of things that will be of longer - term benefit and very good use. This may well be added in advance, but our priority must now be what really matters, separating between dead and untimely jobs and the public for the next three months or so. I would have seen general financial resources on the official fees for the next three months at least that would also have taken credit taxes and the so-called toll Cables to customs. I understand, as shown in the answer to the highest. Minister in answer to earlier, the problem of course we don't want a company to use the resources if they don't need them. It could be fully updated by some form of interest on the pay period, but I think it's very important when we watch a total lack of income and the risk of total growth in the next few weeks and months for the government to take a real chance on domestic employment by giving it the generally paid amount of public fees that can be paid. All public pay is then to be taken into account. I agree with what. paritaprevir In Bergþór to the customs, the Ólason - part son of Olelah points to the Toll Clan. It doesn't matter very much whether a person has to pay it all over the next 15th month or get an additional 20 days in half. In such unprecedented situations, I think there is good reason to be able to give pay back for at least three months. I think it's very important that the committee specifically examines it. Second, I fear that at least a shorter period of time, we may be overcrowding the conditions that a company has to meet. In a way, no one knows what company position will be in a month or two or three. Hence, companies have a normal response to all means needed to ensure their deposit posts for the next few weeks. We in this hall have often said, " It's better to do more than less. ' Under those badges, I find it easier to put the officials aside a little, if it could be said that way, and to look through our fingers with the possibility of using these things which may have been over at the end would not have had to be needed. I think it's much better to look into that, just to protect the agency so the companies can pay their bills, at least Most of them, and by the way, keep low-payers in the business world, that the state is ready to take a little chance now on the job and that it can pay the fees when we get out of the ice. Therefore, I think it would be wise to go beyond the shortest of this and including that we do not set too rigid standards. However, it would be a simple solution, the highest. Secretary of the budget, in the context of making payoffs. However, it may be good insurance for an enterprise to put a basis for it when it decides whether it will be used or not that it will grow. Other than that, there's quite a lot of things here, and I'm celebrating, for example. will be used to access national tourism when coming out of the ice. You may be able to change or expand, but I'm not going to be among those who make fun of the fact that the money is low. Interestingly, this is a nation's nation's greatest awareness, a small advantage for all of us to make use of national tourism for the summer and encourage us to use its services through the summer. In many respects, this is a good step. Once again, the worthwhile tax is about a very familiar arrangement. We've played in this room taking the pay rate from 60% to 100% and down to 60% again for several years. It is useful and may be traced to stimulate domestic demand at the time of the viral epidemic itself, but I agree with other members of the country that we can also see if we can expand it. Car maintenance is an excellent example. We could expand it in some way into a larger budget team, perhaps packing in domestic tourism over the summer. I think we'll really need to get out of this emergency situation to restore domestic demand. There is no priority to the council's payment right now, but it would be good to consider over the next few weeks how we could make this plan even more difficult. In many ways, the provision for the payment of special property is fine, too. This could encourage and stimulate domestic demand further. I'm not gonna paint it very much. I think it is very important that, in the next few days, the Economic and Business Committee will achieve a good partnership on further implementation of the resources found here and that we make sure that the first guns fired, so to speak, are to support Icelandic employment and home in the coming weeks, will not be effective. I repeat again that we can see e.g. in the scope of the measures adopted last week on partless work and how important it was that good cooperation was able to expand and further improve this strategy. I think it's as well as possible payment deadlines on public expenses and post-traumatic episodes, such as the highest level. The secretary of finance came into his case, in the long run, will be the most important thing in terms of economic action under these unprecedented circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u25	A respectable president. I've got a few appeals or speculations. Thank you for the case presented here. I want to agree with every word I have. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason took him to the platform a few minutes ago. During the next few days, it is important to listen to the committee, who will discuss this and other matters that we will discuss today, or to complete a committee, by comments and by trying to improve what you can do with the suggestions presented here. Of course, we thank you for the suggestions presented. I'd like to agree with what happened. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's brother about the company's own money. It requires caution so that we do not take all the power from the remaining enterprises. Maybe I'm getting the wrong idea, but I'm in point one. I seem to have talked about the time a company can spends looking at the loss of income. Then, of course, there are some companies who have not worked for a whole 12 months but who have worked for a short period of time, ten months, or God. This needs to be examined too. I'd like to use this opportunity to warn again and again about the evaluation of those who need and do not need assistance in the hands of financial institutions. There must be a great deal of careful monitoring on how this is accomplished so that there will be no temptation of any kind to discriminate peers when it comes to seeking help. Then we will discuss what is considered a permanent problem. It also has to be done to ensure that some companies had a particular problem because of public contracting in the community before they reached us by this shabby Covid virus. Some companies, however, had even begun to see a country run by powerful spring and summer, but they need to be looked at in some way and this time with an open mind, not just by the numbers. Some have used the words of a viable company that I don't enjoy at this time, but business was viable perhaps before a year's convention, in November or December, despite a contraction but now a boil in the stomach or head with this new virus. Companies that may now be thought to be having difficulty living were very viable several months ago and are if and when things start up again that, of course, will ever be. I agree with what's been said about the insurance policy. It would have been better to take it down completely and then work back with it. It's a good thing. It's all right. It's all right. In fact, if I get it right, they'll be paying for it in August. It is good for those who enjoy them. It has been said of the export fees, and I agree with what has been said about them. Then I'd like to mention the special savings. It is good that people are saving, and for some, it may be positive to take it out, but that is why we are saying that because of this unexpected, unpredictable virus or the circumstances that are here today, those who are going to pay a price for this accident or this unexpected incident with their savings. In fact, if I get that correct, the state will charge billions of dollars that will be used to cope with this situation. I don't think it's right. First of all, I think it's wrong to take taxes from payment, and secondly, I think it would be better to put more money from the government into this than to walk on the savings of homes and individuals. Secretary of finance has said it's the first step. He has said and proclaimed that according to comments and suggestions, he will be listened. We've given some ideas and we'll keep on doing it. We hope that they will be carefully listened to, and hopefully they will receive some of their attention. Today, it is important that solutions offered work quickly and not be complicated. If companies and individuals are to see the need to spend a lot of time and money, even for longer periods of applications or expert advice, etc. It reduces the power of people who now need them to think that they are locked up in the chest, that now they are relieved, not creating a system that is too complicated, and that is too demanding. There's something we should avoid. I'm not gonna have any more of those words. I hope, of course, that this case will be well discussed by a committee. It is important that the committee take time to discuss the matter carefully and to follow the events with needed comments and adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u26	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for the year 2020. 1172. This bill is presented to the Council for changes in the budgets of various causes and lawsuits because of the conditions of the economy that hardly parallel them in later times. The contents of the bill depend on the approval of the government on March 10, 2020 of seven measures to face the economic impact of the outbreak by the Korean virus. These include some specific changes in current budgets, which depend on certain aspects of government counterarguments in relation to the economic crisis of the land resulting from the epidemic. Ever since the government made a statement in its time, things have evolved. As circumstances have allowed us to take this into account, we have expanded our understanding of specific policy areas. This bill is provided along with other financial arrangements, tax issues and measures that address the company's financial problems. This bill can be assumed to be the first of two to raise funds by 2020. It can be assumed that the second will be submitted to the autumn months, according to the 151st legislative Council. In that bill, we can assume that there is a need for additional financial resources, including to meet the increase in sectoral insurance costs in the current year and other costs of a pandemic that do not depend on the financial resources of public reserves when the cost is more efficient. It is reasonable to ask whether there has been no basis for making arrangements because of the apparent increase in expenses, e.g. In the health system, but we believe at this point that such uncertainty is the best thing to do when we take it into the autumn budget, as well as that we have the reserve to meet any differences. The spread of the Korean virus and measures to prevent spread of it have already had widespread economic and social effects. Unfortunately, this effect is expected to increase over the next few weeks. Looks like a significant decrease in travel service, some say complete stop, and we see hotels closing one after another these days, as well as a private and professional investor. In such circumstances, even with the part - time improved process that we have legalized, unemployment is likely to increase substantially in the coming weeks and months. As a result, economic employers change from day to day and are almost impossible to predict the development of economics for the next year. However, it is already clear that in many areas, economic systems will meet for a year, as well as events in the past few weeks have led to a significant decrease in property and raw markets. But the Icelandic national community is well equipped to cope with tragedy. The debt of enterprises and households has been reduced, as well as the payment of assets and debt is not at all at the same level as previously indicated, e.g. of the financial breakdown, i.e. fall of banks. Then there was a special problem with currency. Finally, we do well to mention the firm position of the State Fund. In recent years, we have paid off debt and have enjoyed a great deal of growth in the production of our country, which now works out well. In addition, business agencies have their own and legal resources. The Penitentiary Department's currency supply has never been larger, and the foreign property of the economy is more than debt. Thus, the native population's remains strong, and there is a low risk of ganglocking and high inflation. Thus, there is no reason to believe that at this point the current contract period will be temporary, but people may have differing views about what is short or long when the shock that we see today is just as severe a crisis of income for many. Then each day is important, but we must accept it for a time that there is considerable uncertainty about how fast our economy and, in fact, the world's economy will regain balance. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, this bill presents proposals for new projects and additional sources relating to spending on budgets that were unpredictable and now considered urgent or inevitable. The bill asks that government funds in 2020 be increased by 21.1 billion, which corresponds to an increase of about 2% of total resources in current budgets. However, the scope of the arrangement is clarified, as I have mentioned, by a few but large spendings. In Comb 4. The bill is also presented with an adjustment in the 6th Article of reference. The budget for 2020 This is where I'm going to step further on the main topic of the bill. First, it is suggested that a minister be authorized to provide contributions for a special temporary quick implementation and investment in order to counteract economic contractions through profitable investments, which increase demand for work forces and increase the production capacity of the economy in the long term. Our work has been that there is a requirement for making donations for such projects, as we have prepared these suggestions that will appear before the council in a special Senate document in a Parliamentary arrangement, i.e. A requirement for the workload on our list is that they can begin no later than September 1. and will be fully completed no later than April 1, 2021. This has been the rule of thumbs in our preparation for this investment campaign, the work of human resources, the means of making money, and the right thing to do. Second, it is suggested that a minister be authorized to give more money to public members in order to increase their investment capacity in 2020. It matters too, and it plays together. I'm not gonna talk this out, but there may be some individual companies, possibly, like. Istavia, would be useful in getting some kind of contribution if you want to speed up plans. It can play so that a government fund supports an enterprise on credit terms to strengthen the economy and to ensure that a person's will is planned but can be of great importance, e.g. ... becauseof the job situation in the Southnes, earlier action, maintenance and construction of the region, both because of the permanent budget they are there and the new building to be built. I'm just saying this as a single example, but these two things are gonna play very well together. We take a closer look at the investment campaign when the Senate resolution proposal comes before the council, but we have tried to make a fool of investments that will benefit society. Thirdly, this bill suggests that a minister will be authorized to make a contract with the National Institute on Maturity and Marketing campaign abroad between 2020 and 2021. The Convention would make travel secretary, but this is the plan to cope with the negative effects of the pandemic in Icelandic tourism. I'm just trying to figure out that this morning I got a call about the kind of campaign the Portuguese have already begun to distribute into this situation, talked about the importance of all being involved in preventing the spread but reminded of the opportunities to refresh themselves spiritually and physically in the future when ways of opening up and coming and visiting Portugal. So these campaigns are already on the move. We have made a decision to protect 1.5 billion in preparation for such efforts, and it will be put in the air when our best people think it is time to do so. Fourth, it is suggested that a minister be allowed to confirm marketing arrangements in support of Icelandic tourism. Here we see a campaign within the country that may include the encouragement to travel by publishing an opportunity to all 18 - year - old and older people. Fifth, it consists of the bill for Ministers to negotiate with Iceland's Secret Bank that the bank is looking for financial support on the part of the state's funds to facilitate additional loans to companies that have suffered a substantial loss of income. Despite the high self-refunding and growth rates in banks, the risk that economic characteristics reduce the willingness of loan companies to lend money even to companies that can have a bright future when the economy shines. It's even Because such companies may be adverse to borrow. The prenup is aimed at increasing the availability of enterprises in a temporary problem to obtain temporary funds, with a government account for half of such extra loans. At the loans, the loan agencies will meet the more relevant conditions the Minister puts in agreement with the Huns Bank. Here it is assumed that in the contract, the government fund guarantees destruction because of the costs it may be due to such payment, as the procedure is not part of the traditional activities of the Federal Bank. The agreement of the Secret Bank shall ensure the reimbursement of such extra loans and aim to indicate that the overall risk of state funds on account of them may be up to a maximum of 35 billion dollars. which are right about 1% of land production. A paper with the bill further explains the ideologies involved. We have set up a law that should include a good basis for making a decision about this. We realize that this will be reflected in a contract between the State and the Council Bank, which says in the report or the council following the council. The report shows all the key conclusions of these issues. We look at enterprises that have lost 40% of their income or more because of this epidemic. We look to the position that the Kingdom responsibility should ensure a more favorable outcome, that banks can lend a more favorable one. It must be reflected in the premise that the state funds are behind them with responsibility. Of course, in this process we assume that since the bank itself has to take part of the loan loss risk, it is at the foundation of making decisions about such loans on business grounds and yet by the state responsibility we're simply saying in the bill that we have to assume that we have to try. We make that statement on the bill, and we have to respect it for the better because of the uncertainty that we cannot put an accurate number on it, but we say: "We're gonna put in our books half of this money, and we're gonna assume that it's gonna get lost. It shows the circumstances in which we live. Similarly, banks must have to approach the matter, that these situations cannot be treated in the same way as they were on a normal annual trip. The idea is to reach out to an enterprise that has been costing 40% of income, that these loans are used to cover the costs of pay, rent, supply, and purchases. We assume that the loan will be only about Double pay expenses last year, that is the upper limit we look at. We are particularly looking at enterprises where the pay rate is at least 25% of the total cost. I'm going to say in the end that in all of our operations, we are not building these measures to get companies that have been in particular in need of help. We're more looking at enterprises that are getting into trouble because of the situation. It would not be a good thing on our part at the General Assembly to try to solve the accumulated old problems of an enterprise that has not been able to fix the business, to bring resources today that should continue to fly them if it is anticipated that even if the situation is not right. That's what I think it's necessary to mention. We have to be honest with this. With up to 35 billion responsibilities and half the risk, loans of this kind may reach up to 70 billion dollars, 2% of the land's production. I'll say again that there's an overwhelming uncertainty about how this plays out. We may want to go further on how we play cards in the months to come. I'm also telling you, it's possible that we need to make some changes in the remuneration terms we're here with. We view this as an 18-month state responsibility, that it should be dropped in 18 months. Perhaps in the fall, or early next year, we will have to take it back up, and we will not be able to rule it out, and even if this gratation is prolonged to cancel the requirement for reimbursement as we make it. Still, we have to start with the basic idea that this is a loan that should be paid back, but because of how bad the situation may be, we may test the State's responsibilities, and it is not certain that all these loans will be recovered. This all depends on what happened. 6th, the bill suggests an increase in government funds loans due to the funding of the actions that include: the increase in investments, market campaigns to present Iceland, the loss of state funds because of the fluctuation, as well as the continuation of tax and tax expenditures, and the possible cost of remuneration due to the interest of corporate loans to companies. Finally, 7th, there is expected to be an increase in legal resources for relevant legal classes, of which up to 21.1 billion are expected. There, 15 billion budgets are weighed to carry out a special investment campaign. It is also suggested that $3.1 billion be added to a special child improvement and, finally, 3 billion for market and introduction celebrations abroad and within the country as I've traced here. Otherwise, I refer to further discussion of the suggestions in comments to unique categories of subjects. Then I will call attention to this in connection with the role and scope of the budget in Article 24. a law on public finances is required on the general budget of the A-part of the State Fund. The requirements for its disposition are the same as those that apply to a budget-shaped bill, i.e. The reserve is intended to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses. The evaluation of the government is best considered that the projects that are the main element of this bill must be, not funded by contributions from the general reserve, but requested sources of special funds. Therefore, it is not expected to make use of funds on account of these matters. Rather, the provision of his sources will be determined, along with the implementation of a bill to other budgets that will be submitted in the fall. A respectable president. I believe that I have studied the key elements of this bill for financial support by 2020 and suggest that this be followed by a discussion of 2nd. ... andwhat. The Parliament's budget, and it's going to take care of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u27	Mr. President. At the beginning, I want to encourage the highest. A minister for good works, and he can claim from this chair that, of course, the United States supports all the good ideas that come from there. I know everyone here is trying to do their best. However, in view of the situation, I would like to introduce a novel idea. At the top. A minister is aware of a medical emergency, when the collapse of the bank occurred, we both sat at the council and had to think fast and had to think outside the box. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister is willing to support us in allowing more policy and thinking when it comes to leading and solving this crisis. This is not merely the government, but the people and businesses of the country. Here we might set up some kind of electronic national conference, where the secretary of finance and government would call for proposals from the economy and from the public about how all of us can cope with this crisis. It's gonna be a tough time. We can certainly get out of this, but it would be a clever idea for me to take advantage of the ideas of Icelandic employment and Icelandic homes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u28	A respectable president. I would like to state that I am truly open to looking around and listening for indications and suggestions. It is always a question of how it is best to create such a scene. There has been no lack of information about professional life. They've really rained down on us. Similarly, we have been looking to indications from international institutions, and they have been quite numerous. We already have a fair overview of the tax measures taken by most people around us, in a special report, so we have been considering all of this. I think the problem with walking all the way and creating a special field for this is to make sure that it is flexible and efficient, but not too heavy. But at this point, I think we're actually working on this discussion in more than one field, both here at the council, in the board and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u29	Mr. President. I think it would be a good idea to expand this approach only. Experience shows that the big access to governments at one time, and I think we need to consider that the medial device in Icelandic employment is small and medium-sized enterprises, responsible for about 70% of the staff and 70% of the total resources in our community are attributable to small and medium-sized enterprises and, in fact, to the vast majority of the enterprises, to small and medium-sized companies. I'm simply worried that this company may not have a good access or a deliverer when it comes to molding the solutions that need to be addressed. That's my main approach. An electronic national meeting would suit them in my opinion but also increase the public bioavailability. Of course, it is the government and the Senate to appreciate what is done with their ideas. But because of this unprecedented and ignorant position, I think it would be very funny if we opened this up more. When things like this happen, there's no control, no government, no right, no left. Then we can all work together, and I think it would be extremely important if we were to get the nation involved in the creative work, and it might create a greater harmony when it comes to what will finally be done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u30	A respectable president. I just want to thank you for the positive tone I feel about our working together to find solutions, and I'm not going to rule out anything about how we create the scene for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u31	A respectable president. We showed it on a welfare committee that we can work together, and it worked out very well with the two subjects we handled here last time before the council, and hopefully this will continue. But I'd like to ask a minister, why on earth is this bill 20,000 bucks? Remuneration to those with over 11 million a year's pay? What is the basis for their child - rearing? Why is it so necessary for the individual to receive these 20,000 bucks?? Then there's another question I'd like to ask, and it's about the banks, about 35 billion on the bank. But is that not in the Kingdom? The government owns most of the banks. It is 70 billion on the state itself because the state must be responsible for its banks, it must be the same owner.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u32	A respectable president. It is true that the State is the principal partner of two systematic banks. In fact, the Lands Bank has more shareholders than the United States, which is different at Iceland Bank. Nevertheless, these are laws of independence and are subject to regulations and competitive rules for how they walk on the market. They can't behave as if it were a treasure, but I think I understand exactly what's going on. A senator is leaving. As for the child's settlement, I think it is reasonable to say that a lower sum will come to those above this income limit, reflecting the highest tax rate. You're right about that. 600 million additional costs for the children of those above the threshold. I guess it's safe to say that the basic thought is that these are money that is hoping to benefit children, not their parents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u33	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers. Yes, use the children of the highest paying ones. But there's just a lot more need on the other side. I would have liked to see 600 million go to those who really need it. There's something else I'd like to ask. There are 1.5 billion in Iceland for a campaign. Isn't there already some money in the Iceland lab? And why just an Iceland lab? Shouldn't this money be distributed to others, not just to Iceland? Why is she alone under there, what's the thought behind it? If we are going into action, it would be clever, with regard to those who are now saying hibernation and other things, to encourage them to come in the fall or soon again. But I'm asking why only Icelandroom?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u34	A respectable president. An Iceland agency is aimed at launching in Iceland abroad and being like a channel and a site for the market of Iceland abroad. When we went on the market campaign that went by the name Inspired by Iceland, we worked very well in cooperation with an Iceland lab. It is estimated here that an Icelandic agency will become an intermediate person and executive at a campaign in which these funds are primarily involved in publishing advertisements and working them, they will not be left with the locals of Iceland. In terms of the sum, this is in proportion to the annual cost of a Iceland clinic, more than where it belongs, i.e. It's like a whole town of Iceland and a little bit more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Foreman of finance. There isn't much time here, with one minute to make a move, to go deep in things, but there is one thing I want to mention, and that's what in the history of the highest. A minister was called the fifth item. It turns to 50% of the state's responsibilities on loans, up to 70 billion, half of which are responsible, 35 billion of the State's responsibilities. First, I'd like to ask the highest. The minister: From Saturday onward, this point was set out to be 81 billion. Is there anything else in there but twice 35, i.e. 70 billion that explains? However, I am concerned that the operation will be somewhat uncertain because, of course, it has just been released a considerable amount of money for new loans inside the banks, with a change in the Federal Bank, including the U.S.A. on binding protocols and fluctuation equations. Has the highest. Ministers do not worry that the risk of losing banks within this framework will greatly discourage this solution from being over its head? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u36	A respectable president. First, about 81 billion, it is actually taking the effect of the loan of banks to speed up the decline in the bank tax. This increases the ability of banks to be loaned, and it can be added to the scope of their Kingdom responsibilities. I think that's just the way the banks must first be with their companies. It says that this is what they think, so they try on this loan line first after the company's main business agencies have given them the normal payment according to the position of the case. But what is needed to get them across the threshold? It's not good to appreciate. We must simply, and especially when we have two bank banks, try to activate and use this huge financial account that the banks have to help get us out of this hole. [[The president calls.]] The responsibility of the State is to be given much in that respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u37	Mr. President. I agree with the highest. Of course, the secretary of finance regarding the key to the matter is to encourage the banks to make the most of their time. But I am concerned that this solution will not really come to my senses until a relatively time - consuming process is completed, in terms of the use of the space they have of the Secret Bank. That is, in fact, what I would like to wonder here, if there were any reason to use this possible space to build in some impulse that the banks, which, of course, are largely owned by a government fund at the moment, move faster, so to speak, to the loan-grading vector which has already been created by the Secret Bank, i.e. the 350 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u38	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator when he points out that this needs to be efficient. We need quick answers. These loans should not be overexpensive and heavy - metal systems. We remember the rest of the agreement with the Secret Bank trying to arrange the knots so that it is quite clear in which case the company should have the right to borrow from this type. I think that is actually the best way, that the rules of the game are clear, so it doesn't take both long conversation between company and financial institutions, and then again between the financial agency and the Huns Bank. It may be a matter of life and death for some companies not having to wait for this, that such a heavy process is not there. But I state that we are here on the same path that many other countries are doing, including The North countries, and I'm sure we can find a process that works. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u39	Mr. President. I've said before that this is no time for political superiors, but I have to admit that when it comes to the investment plans in this package, I would have wanted to see that we could go beyond this. We have to keep in mind that we've been starving infrastructure for years, in fact, all streets since collapse. We have been very much below the average in the investment of the government. I realize that the warning is short now, but I would have expected that there would be a considerable list of public projects that could be attacked. I'd like to give you a few examples. We have a bill from the highest. Special transport minister on private funding including two projects that should take place this year. Now there may be some uncertainty about how to handle or finance such projects, but it would be reasonable to allow space to be taken directly through a government fund if necessary. It would be nice to hear a previous comment on the highest point of view. Minister in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u40	A respectable president. We went to this job so that we asked the whole administration system, all of the Ministry, to pick out all the projects that the Ministry thought could attack immediately this year. As a result of a significant project list, it was concluded that it was practical to get up to 15 billion right away this year of all these ideas. In addition, projects, such as I've been referring to today, could be carried out by the public societies. We may not necessarily have seen all the details involved. The above may be a special campaign for rural society. In addition to all of this, we could finish the bill referred to on private investments and add it on top. [[The president calls.]] When all of this is taken together, we're talking about a huge investment initiative in the whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u41	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'm not going to follow this thread any further. I think we can do more there. There are two other factors that I find important to look to, too. We've gone through very difficult winters when it comes to our electric wood. It is clear that large investment initiatives need to be done, and there the State could come in with a substantial injection of his own money, not necessarily with the need of these companies, but in order to prevent reimbursement increases in distribution costs, since it is calculated only after a particular calculation. However, it is quite clear that in the renewal and structure of a structure and the necessary infrastructure of transport workers, significant amounts of water could be added. But maybe it's the biggest thing in this, and what I miss most, the nursing room that has been done for far too long. For a very long time, on the part of this government, there has been talk of the need for effort but it has not been seen in any of these plans. I just ask, if not now, when?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u42	A respectable president. In all things, I'm going to state my agreement. A senator on the wood and the electrical system. With regard to nursing homes, we have been adding resources and have taken from many billions, from the time we put together the government covenant, to speed up their structure. In fact, since we're having a discussion about nursing homes, I believe it needs to be taken up everything. I feel like we're getting into trouble about how that system works. The fact that we're discussing here how much money we're going to put in concrete to build some standard nursing apartment types, I feel that we're not joining the clock. I'd like to see a quick return to work, rethinking all government funding in nursing homes, so that we would be primarily considering that money would follow people's homes, and we would go into big business cooperation with third sector, self-employing institutions that are good at driving these homes to the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u43	Mr. President. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to wish the highest. Ministers and his Ministry would benefit from the work that lies ahead. I know that this is not easy, and I know that people in every area are doing their best. From this chair, I also want to thank you to all who are involved in public safety, health care, and school activities that are very strict in the situation we live in. It is said that these are unprecedented times, and they are, but it is only 11 years since Icelandic employment and society went through a difficult time after the collapse of the bank. It seems that both the one standing here and the highest. The secretary of finance supported the government that was then involved in taking the first steps when one of Iceland's main roads was hit by a major crash. Now that it is happening again, it is important that we, whether in control or in our position of government, remain relatively united in the projects ahead. It's simply too much at stake, and it's important. This was done by the Independence Party and the Companion at its time, that was a good partnership with the labour market partners, but also with the government opposition and the public in the country. I suggested earlier that it might be advisable to set up an electronic national meeting to call for good ideas from the public and companies, especially from small and mediumsized companies, who may be left out when faced with major decisions. This idea doesn't make me feel like there's any harm, and it's nice to try to get as many people at the table as possible and to take advantage of the ideas of the Icelandic job and the public. Tourism is obviously going through a great deal of trouble, there are 30,000 direct jobs in tourism, more than three times as much as in financial matters at the time of the collapse of the bank. We see that the proportion of travel services is similar to that of the banking service in 2008, and the value of foreign tourists was about 70% of the number in travel. This situation could affect up to 18,000 jobs, so we need to be careful to secure and protect our jobs. I'm quite worried about my unemployment, as I know all members of the Parliament have. We especially need to focus on a group of unemployed, and we do not forget that there are already nearly 10,000 people out of work. This is fast to be counted, and people who survive from one paycheck to the next may face considerable problems, and it is important that the state come in handsomely and loyally and defend the job as best possible. I'd like to review some of the things I think are rather positive in the government plan of action. Everyone wins the campaign for reimbursement of industrial tax because I like it. After the collapse of the bank, we succeeded. It is a pleasure to know that this warrant is extended and extended and extended. In the first winter, I gave a talk about the wisdom of doing so. Still, I pondered that question to the highest level. Minister if we should expand this warrant. We'll look into it on the Committee, a prospective economic and business committee rather than a financial committee. It might be noted whether the release is further available, allowing it to purchase materials on the other hand and to work outside a building site, outside the home. I think we should consider these ways of promoting increased consumption and mostly investments. It's clear that they're going to be dragging them together quite seriously. It's a good plan that we're going to expand. Let's think a little bigger. Second of all, I think that a child- reformed idea is a clever, supportive idea. Actually, I think the amount is a little cheap, 3 billion, but, of course, it all counts. 3 billion are only 0.3% of the gross expenditures. The Parliamentary Committee will consider this, but it is clear that many family members face a significant shock. Third, I thought the gift letter for the purchase of domestic travel services also sounds pretty good. To me, this is a version of so - called helicopter coins. They're trying to increase their private consumption at the same time as the economy is drawing together very quickly and growing low. Of course, the amount of money has been criticized for its limited value, 5,000 bucks. each adult, but maybe you can add. Fourth, there is a positive market campaign for tourism. We need to engage in a great deal of market campaigns for tourism, and this is a long-term project that all support. I'd also like to draw out that the cases that were approved last week and that part-time improvement and pay are also extremely positive, and I think many companies will take advantage of the government's permission to pay up to 75% of the pay in these difficult times. I wonder, however, what happens in those companies who don't even have money to pay 25% and who are forced to close, on the other hand, an enterprise that is forced to close because of a total collapse in income and, on the other hand, a company that is now forced to close because of government proposals. Is there any reason to meet these companies? There's a lot of them, these are the little companies, even micro companies. Icelandic life mainly depends on small and medium-sized enterprises and mainly on micro enterprises, i.e. Businesses with one employee and up to nine. We need to remember them. I know there's a lot of balls in the air, but I'd like to mention this specifically, that's something we need to have in mind. The government has only been criticized. You may be careful about criticizing the government, at this point we just want to see the good in the suggestions, and there are positive things in them. Of course there is more to be done, and a minister has said that there will be more to be done. Before the weekend, this pack of measures was presented to be 230 billion. Reasonablely, the actual injection of the Kingdom Fund is only about 70 billion, i.e. one-third. I feel we can do better there. The wealth of money is of little debt, and I make it my hope that we will spit more on it. I sense the speech of the Ministers who have spoken today that there will be improvements. We can see in the budget bill that goes to the budget board that only 21 billion are expected. Relative to budgeting up to 1,000 billion, this is not so much, more than a 2% increase in financial resources. True, another valuable thing has been offered that is positive. Some of this money's missing. Today, there is no deposit in medical institutions, but it has been said to come later. I wondered why it's not in this money. They need to make sure that health institutions receive the money they need. Here is a parapolitic conspiracy that it will be done, but we need to remember to do so. At the same time, in this speech, I want to mention what I mentioned earlier today in my inquiry to the health minister. Of course, the state now has to finish a bargain with nurses. Of course, it doesn't work, everyone sees, not having nurses on the contract. They've been doing it for over a year. Nurses are a key reaction in today's state, and we must be able to negotiate with them rapidly and effectively. Then I mean this week. It so happens that there is a contract meeting with nurses tomorrow and, as I did with the Minister of Health, I specifically encourage the secretary of finance to complete contracts with these key classes. Nurses have indeed answered our call, not only those who are active now but also the retired nurses, they have already registered in the health - care department, ready to contribute, and now I feel that we are in this hall to respond to their call. Let's finish the dress contract, let's give nurses a good bargain and a special strain on this situation. You can imagine the pressures we face today in medical institutions, and unfortunately, the pressures of life are likely to increase greatly. They're people who put themselves at risk just by coming to work because they're working to protect the rest of us. Mr. President, let's be done well. I worry about those who are now out of work and those who are out of work. I'm also worried about students. The summer and spring's professional ratings of students are virtually zero. These are groups who do interoperative jobs, often in tourism, groups we must not forget. I know the government hasn't put out all the cards it holds. Since more is yet to come, I want to use the talk chair to highlight what you can do more and remember certain groups. These include miners. I think the bridge's a pretty good way to go. They just need to be careful that their conditions of borrowing, who will get the loans, and so on. It is a question of how well the loan is suitable for small services that do not happen in some investments. Again, I'm trying to get the discussion to the point where we fit small and medium-sized companies, they're about to get in a lot of trouble. They're companies in the service sector, hundreds of companies in tourism, and we need to remember them. I'm really worried about them. Then there are systematically important companies, such as Icellands, that need special attention. I would like to recall some of the ways that we were able to follow the collapse of the bank. I keep referring to the collapse of the bank because at that time the government undertook many measures to soften the blow, and there is no need for us to come up again. After the collapse of the bank, there's a whole toolbox we can search for. One of the findings at that time was the takeover, and I believe the current president of the Generals, Stigrim Sigfússon Sigfugson, has proposed a bill for taking over national interest in important companies. I know we're not there yet, but we need to consider what happens to the big, systematic, important companies. It's not easy, I realize it completely, but Iclands are in trouble like all airlines in the world, and we need to be particularly concerned about whether the state simply overrides it or how it will be. Likely, everything will be considered in that subject. Icelanders are a business that is our lifeblood to the world, not only in public transport, but in freight transport. We also need to be careful that national interests do not simply use the losses and the personal profits. I think it's all right that in such an emergency, the state of state has a business, whether in flight or in any other way, to save the company's business. I'm not talking about saving the stockholders, I'm talking about saving the operation, making sure the operation continues and saving the work. This was done in the collapse of the bank, and special laws were passed on the establishment of an official community to promote the reorganization of operating companies. There was an official community that had even been established. access to possessing possessions in the relevant enterprises. This is an upbuilding way in which I am trying to push forward and encourage ministers to look especially at the current situation. I'd also like to mention the enterprise fund that the pension fund set up after a crash. The pensions bought companies, repaired them, and then sold them when things were handled well. This is a way that I think we should look at in this unprecedented situation. Of course, it is tempting to go to numbers, but it is likely that both committees will consider carefully whether this will add a little to the child's improvement and consider possible additional investments. Of the 15 billion investments, only 2 billion in innovation and the green economy. I wondered if it's possible to add a little bit more. So I propose to the relevant committee whether we can focus more on the green economy and so on solutions, innovations, and research. 2 billion are only 0.2% of the gross expenditures. Mr. President. We in the United States support all practical suggestions, and we will, of course, try to add them and make them better, bring new ideas, and call for more response. As noted above, these are the first steps of this procedure. There's a lot ahead, and I think everyone agrees that there's more to be done here and that there's more to be done, so that there's a level of equality and general guidelines in order to make a point that, and hopefully, an Icelandic life of employment can rise up relatively fast again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u44	President. In March we are now experiencing funding, which has its bearing on the situation we face. This financial bill contains several measures to deal with the consequences of the Covid epidemic in Iceland. In the first place, the cost is increased by 21 billion, which divides into 3 billion tourism; child damages are just over 3 billion as well as the specific budgets of 15 billion. In addition, it is authorized to take up to 140 billion dollars. A loan to make arrangements according to the regulations of these funds. 140 billion is seven times higher than the 21 billion I mentioned, but the explanation seems to be that there are additional sources in Article 4. The bill on increasing stocks in public communities, providing contributions for special temporary investment initiatives to counteract economic contractions and finally negotiate with the Bank of Iceland to allow the bank to provide payment to facilitate additional loans to companies. As a result, 119 billion go strictly to this three - open authority decree. It certainly ensures a degree of flexibility in difficult and variable circumstances, but at the same time, the Allied Council hands over an extensive budget for the government. Therefore, the government must exercise caution and not be tempted to misuse that power. Piranha will be on an effective basis for this. If a person is trusted to be an effective member of the Committee on the Work, then he will be able to do so. paritaprevir Officer Leví Gunnarsson, Pirata's representative of the budget. Government action is presented as the major action of Iceland history at the same time as it suggests that more action is likely to be needed. The fact that the Council gives the government $ 119 billion in operations, such as temporary investment initiatives and additional loans for businesses provides a wide range of abuses in which there is little or no limit to these budgets. Therefore, it would be advisable to set up similar conditions on these budgets and were set up for the government's credit rights to Iceland's e-mail, that the government needs to make clear to the council for financial decisions based on the financial rights granted in this law. This can be the reason. It's a legal committee. Hv. paritaprevir Leví Gunnarsson, a member of the Pirata Committee, calls for it and suggests that there are special requirements for handling this in terms of the circumstances in which we face them. The bill's report discusses the special 15 billion investment campaign and how the funds are involved. There are 6 billion transport workers, 2.3 for other infrastructure projects, 2 for maintenance of real estate, more than 1.7 for research, innovation and creative articles, more than 1.3 in Digital Iceland and other information technology projects, more than 1 in new building and major restoration projects, and finally 500 million in energy exchange and green solutions. We see a greater proportion of the funds involved in this special effort to make road repairs, new buildings, and maintenances of houses, such as concrete and malaria. I have to inform you here that I have a interest in protecting when more money is put in a baccarat as an employee of a plan in a baccarat in 23 summers. In between, I've traveled to university and attended Congress. There's a lot of things you've been doing. I will not accept dues unless there is a national accord on such matters, of course, I will let the national will rule. It is never more important than now, and the epidemic must not be used to take measures that are very controversial and that do not have a solid agreement. People will then feel that their need is being used and that they ignore the necessary call for solidarity. Such things would be irresponsible. If they want to go that way, they have to make sure that there is a general agreement in the community about this process. What else would be irresponsible? It is positive that we are increasing investment in digital solutions, creative branches, and innovations. Likewise, a contribution to energy exchange and green solutions is a source of joy, but an investment in all of this is only about half of the resources planned for road transport. Women are less likely to work in construction and road construction. So it would be a wish to see the greater power of investments that works professionally for women. A financial committee should take a view of what can be done in this regard. Further measures by the government should also be taken into consideration, and it shows that in preparation there is an even greater investment effort in the year 2021/2023, which is wishing to take it into account. It is being granted to the state to authorize a contract with the National Institute on Maturity and market campaigns abroad between 2020 and 2021 to address the negative effects of the pandemic in Icelandic tourism. I'm sure it's a warrant. Once the pandemic is over, this can help you to recover. Whether or when to recover from travel, it is uncertain. She'll eventually do it, but when? That's the big question. We do not know when the measures due to Covid19 will be removed, and therefore it is wise to immediately support the infrastructure and occupations we know to have a chance to attend today, in the pandemic period. We have many opportunities to support creative articles, wands, and pioneers who can create modern high - tech products that earn money, regardless of whether there is a ban or not. These include software, music, movies, books, video games, and table games. Only those jobs that can be done mostly over the Internet, sold, and distributed despite social distances, and meeting bans will flourish during a pandemic season. Economic measures at the public's expense must be taken into account. In fact, there are not many other things to say about the bill, considering the message that accompanied the presentation that these arrangements were the first steps to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u45	Mr. President. As I mentioned earlier in a discussion of the government's bill on economic impacts following a pandemic, the crown virus, we welcome in the central category of measures aimed at improving the status of people and companies in the unprecedented situation in which we have come. It is important that we act swiftly and that we walk together to minimise the economic damage we are facing. The situation is serious. Therefore, such options need to be handled properly and meet the great challenges of an enterprise, many of whom are involved in looking up at and those who come to lose their jobs for this reason. All have an understanding of the need for this bill, but it is necessary to look at it with critical eyes, especially because it involves a lot of financial resources for the sake of the state and the authority to borrow 140 billion dollars. When a bill this is presented, a bill that includes high financial expenditures and has been given in a hurry, it is necessary to be careful and avoid all mistakes and complications when it comes to carrying out the case so that we do not rush out on time in this important action. It is equally important that the bill be of best benefit to those who need these measures and, in the past, be careful with official funds as required by the law. First, I'd like to say that the suggestions presented in the bill are that I know that it's too complicated and that it's necessary to simplify them. There is danger in so - called special decisions that are never good when the problem is so widespread. They need to be cared for by the companies and households of the country, and we in the Middle East are all over it. We have special suggestions for the material I traced earlier this morning. The bill hides, including in particular that the public, i.e. taxpayers, will lend companies in trouble of money. However, it is not clear enough on what conditions and on which ideals the public will lend the money. It must be ensured that government funds and taxpayers are not borrowing or saving companies where owners or managers have paid high money in recent years, that government funds do not lend money to companies who have been buying their own letters or giving high proposals and options to managers. The budget is to assist and save individuals and homes that really need it, not companies that don't need it. V.E.G. Prior to today, a minister of finance emphasized that a company that would not need this payment would not seek it. I'm just saying that it's supposed to be the goal, and it has to be sure that the companies that need this have to be paid and not the ones who don't need it. It is proper to mention in this context that the European Union of Iceland has concluded that if it is decided to give public responsibility to companies, governments should provideocracies to families who face problems with State responsibilities in the same way, whether because of a mortgage or any other burden of commitment. It should be kept in mind that providers in those enterprises who receive support will have to pay that support back in some way. Then I don't mean that the bank gets the loan back in the so-called loan line of state funds. The shareholders must not get away with the so-called risks and then get government support in the form of loans from a bank with a state guarantee. It is, in fact, a prize-winning venture, and it is unacceptable that directors and managers will continue to receive high-pay, salary, etc. In the unprecedented situation in which we are in, and the state funds are entering. It is necessary to explain in the manner in which the Kingdom responsibility for new loans to an enterprise will be established. Will it be assumed that the pledge will be evenly divided between the bank and the state if it is borrowed from the mortgage or that the bank holds it to itself? V.E.G. The minister of finance declared that these things would be replaced and needed to be fulfilled. Also mentioned the highest. Ministers that the state responsibility would be until 18 months. This is likely to be revised as we gain more information, and we will see how circumstances develop in our economy and how quickly we will recover when the virus is removed. I hope she disappears as soon as possible. In effect, this is the second time in a short period of time that the largest nation's industry collapses. Now it's travel service, but the banking system collapsed 2008, as we all know it. In effect, what is concerned is more than the collapse of the bank and will have greater impact on the entire economy. We all know what happened on the bank crash with the dollar and the insurance policy. We cannot rule out a repeat, but hopefully this will not happen. However, the government needs to be prepared, removing the index for sudden weather conditions. When the bill was presented at a meeting of the budgetary committee, it was specifically noted that these important points were not on the table in the implementation of the government, i.e. The crown's rapid decline, the drop of currency, and the inflation to jump. However, it was observed that this trend could not be excluded. In addition, it was observed that there was no discussion about interrupting the insurance policy. I'm worried, Mr. President, that these very important things were not on the top of the table as they said. It is absolutely essential to have a strategy that will help us to deal with the circumstances we have previously faced, with serious consequences for our homes in the country. Next time, Mr. President, I'd just like to step up on the so-called bridge loans and the stocks with the access to employment insurance. I think this is too late because it's obvious that it takes too long and it's too complicated. The process needs to be simplified. It is important to discuss within the committee how this can be done. We need to keep in mind small and medium-sized enterprises because they are no less important than other enterprises. Our actions need to be public and accessible. For example, a wiretap I'd like to call a innovation wage should be considered, i.e. that the government pays the pay of those at home, pays salary to employees and companies in those areas, so that those at home can start a new era to develop ideas and innovations. This is very important to us in the situation we are in today. It is important that we try to use the workers who need to be at home because of the situation to bring new ideas and that as many as possible are active. It's for everyone's good. Businesses should be given the opportunity to obtain a so-called innovation loan from the State to, for example. Three years old to use the time to develop ideas. The credit terms are, in fact, a special skill that must be done very carefully, in terms of conflicting interests and not becoming too complex, as specifically attributed to me. There's got to be a state of complete transparency. On my account, the banks are giving up a lot of money, banks that have been making big money and have been buying out their own letters. It must be demanded that the shareholders return it, i.e. with my own money somewhere else, to deal with these tragedies. I think it's also necessary to think of the options to be paid, such as. The private bank of Arion Bank has agreed. All of this needs to be considered when the loan and the decrease in the bank tax becomes a reality. The bill considers the arrival of Iceland's National Focal Bank as a responsible for these loans and loans to companies. At the same time, the S.H.I.L.A. has been under surveillance of financial companies formerly under the SEC. It is clear here that there is a conflict of interest. This is one of the classics that were referred to against the union of UNECE and the Federal Bank, i.e. that the bank is a responsible officer, a borrower, and a surveillance provider, as shown by agreements between the Huns Bank and the banks on such responsibilities. Such practical conflicting issues are undesirable. The bill recommends a number of legal resources, but it is important to consider more closely how these are and what to do with the work being done. True, there is an overview of this on page 18. Thirteen, but it's just general. V.E.G. A minister noted that the export would be in the form of a synonym and that it would have been desirable to have been able to inform on the projects in this discussion. The same is true of contracts with the National Institute of Iceland and contracts with the Secret Bank. They're not available. It is taking over a significant amount of power for the development of these objects, and it is important to consider monitoring and transparency. There's always a risk of conflict of interest. Likely, what is added in the bill is too small, and the options are too late for many people. It's soon next month. These suggestions do not address the challenges of the enterprises, which over 90% decrease in almost one night or perhaps two weeks. They have little access to budget and cash and the next month's conventions are likely to be difficult for them. There is a risk that the problem will become more complex in the system over a short period of time, and we need to prepare and intervene. In this context, it is appropriate to mention both the disinfectant bill and the partial pay. There are very narrow conditions. They need to tackle the problem that exists in companies with no income and that have lost them almost overnight, as I mentioned. This problem can also be not limited to the company, it can take on landlords because rent is not paid, it can take on banks because loans are not paid, it can take on suppliers because products are not bought, etc. Then it is necessary that, as I said before, the funds and responsibilities of the Sensitian Bank be transparent and clear. We are faced with emergency problems, this is clear, and therefore it is urgent to act quickly and that instructions to the state banks for their approach are clear and that the whole process will be as simple as possible. This may be the first step to make further progress and aim for how the situation develops. I will make this my last words this time, Mr. President, and will present myself in front of the Central Party on a budget board when the bill will be discussed. I expect the committee to meet together on the important task ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u46	Mr. President. Here's another Senate case available for the Covid-19 virus. As we know, four rural areas in the East have joined together, and today the need is clear that for obvious reasons, the rural election there is to be delayed. It's so easy. The Environment and Transport Committee takes steps to provide the bill of this element, the bill to correct the change in rural government law, No. 138/2011. 1st par. It says, with permission of the president: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: Despite regulations 125th. The Ministry is allowed to suggest that the establishment of a new community due to the cohesion of the Fundavogshrepps, the urban hippos, the River Valley province and the Seyol Fjords and the approval of the local government should cancel their decision from February 14, 2020, on what sort of community community unity will become valid, as per 1 mgr. The article. As a result, they all fall in touch with the Ministry's decisions, according to 125rd. in force, such as in the work of rural elections, including home management elections, on April 18, 2020. The Ministry shall, with a proposal to prepare the establishment of the new community, make a new decision on how unity will come into force. 2.g. is that the law is already valid and that the Ministry's decision to make a decision is made within three days of their execution. The report includes the following:Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending On February 14, 2020, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs confirmed a proposal to prepare the establishment of a new community due to the unity of the four members of the four rural community. At the proposal of the preparatory government, the Ministry decided that the Union should be elected to the rural administration of the new joint community on April 18, 2020, and that internally held votes should be initiated in accordance with a government vote. On March 19, 2020, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs received a request by the preparatory administration due to the cohesion of the election to the rural administration of the new united rural society to be announced to be suspended. It was referred to as a health minister who temporarily restricted the meeting for four weeks to slow down the spread of the Korean virus, which causes the disease Covid-19. It was then noted that the preparatory government sought the direction of the governor, the head of attorneys, the head of the management board, the Eastern Presidency Committee, the Eastern Commission, the head of the administrations, and the point of the available initiatives, and that none of the above against the postponement of the election. This was accompanied by the request of preparatory management conclusions made by the four rural administrations, all of whom agreed together to request a continuation of this election. 89th. a law on the election of the county government states that the election in the election department on the specific day of the district election is due to an uncontrolled election within a week to be introduced to a re-establishment. Clearly, the regulations of the Law No. 5/1998 does not include the authority of the head of the administration to postpone the sub-election bill, as well as the uncertain duration of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. There is no provision in the government that allows the Ministry to cancel its decision on the date of the election. In addition, it should be kept in mind that the right of the people of the rural community to make elections for the local government at 1 mg. 78th par. The constitution and therefore it is important to make decisions about the continuation or reinstatement of an election that is already denied a reliable legal basis. However, it should be noted that the decision to postpone elections has been made on the basis of administrative emergency rights, as per the General Assembly's resolution to the continuation of the General Assembly election in 1941. However, it is not necessary to allow the Ministry's decision to postpone the election because of the unity of the four rural organizations at this stage, as the General Assembly is still active. The purpose of the provisional principle is that it is possible to disappear from the ocial vote on April 18. In view of the election for rural development in the new rural society, the need for unity to take effect is laid down to allow the Ministry to be authorized to cancel its decision on how the harmony takes place. It also considered that there is a lot of uncertainty about the situation of the next month and may not be a time for a new district election. It shall be stated that by re-vocation of a declared election, the election will fall to the Commission for the election, an ex-election directive already paid, an offer if it has been submitted formally, and any other items associated with the election's proclamations. It can be expected that if a new election is announced, there will be a need for a re-elector and a re-examinement. The review of the Ministry's review also includes the reimbursement of the government's decision on how the community's unity will go into effect and shall be made to propose a recommendation to prepare the establishment of the new rural society. Therefore, the unity of the four members of the community falls, not away, but only the decision of its taking. It is then assumed that the law will immediately become valid, and in view of the importance of making quick election decision, the Ministry is granted only three days to make such a decision. The bill was employed in cooperation with the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs, Justice, the Union of Iceland, and the preparatory management of a new community. The bill has nothing to do with a constitution or an international commitment unless the law's directives are intended to satisfy 1 mg. 78th par. The Constitution of local society's right to vote for its government. The bill will not have an expense effect on the state funds. The point is, Mr. President, to hell. The Environment and Transport Committee presents this issue united, and according to the Convention, it is not necessary to refer the case to a committee and provide a committee opinion unless requested by any members of the Parliament. At the return of the bill, Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, says here, Jón Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Teleika Árnason Savarsdóttir, Vilmimurmá Hárnasson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Góðður Brjánsson Bránsson, Leví Gunnarsson, and Karl Hjaltason Einar. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u47	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the P.R. law. The bill proposes a new law on civil duty at a time of danger that ensures public access to employees from work to carry out activities that are most important at risk. Such tasks include: that the need for public service can be maintained and if necessary the change in jobs and even the work areas of the individual employees can be requested as needed, but the employees will maintain the same salary conditions. Official organisations under the bill refer to state, societies and companies of their own. A moment of crisis in the sense of this law is when the governor has declared an emergency phase that is the highest level of public defence under the rule of a public defense strategium or has declared that an emergency level is imminent. The P.R. may never have been declared an emergency until now in the fight against the epidemic Covid-19. Recently, several public agencies have been working to update response programmes, including Based on the risk of avalanches, volcanic risks and epidemics of Covid-19. Many planning programs now state that it is permitted to transfer people to work in order to carry out important tasks at a dangerous time. Jobs with all the challenge schedules have found the need to provide the legal basis for the public authority to move employees to work as needed. Such a warrant must be available regardless of the subject of action, since decisions often need to be made rapidly and safely in the emergency phase of public defence. By 19. legal on P.R. is the civil duty of all of them aged 18 in a time of danger, free of charge, a job in the interests of public defences in a district where they will abide by the authorities' orders, the beauty of the P.R. or the State Police Department. On this account, I have updated regulations that took place on March 18, but it is reasonable that less resources or legal requirements are implemented and paid by human officials. Thus, government agencies can use their resources in unusual times as these in the most important activities. By means of the agreed bill, workers' duties will be met to carry out their civilian duties at a crisis entrusted to them on the basis of this warrant. In judgment and in order to detect only the bill, actions aimed at preventing, even. The spread of epidemics involves bringing people to work in various ways. The same is true of responses and measures to maintain public service at a critical moment due to another disaster. Some services may need to be transferred from a work station, e.g. the day - to - day services of the disabled and/or the elderly will be conducted in home service, education at educational institutions will be conducted in telecommunications or requirements for working at home. They may need to hide employees from other jobs, but they do all the same, such as increasing roles in cleaning and in preventing disease and leaving specialised service and financial work. In any case, if you happen to have a number of employees in one work station or at one workplace, you may also need to transfer them to other public agencies to care for the necessary public service. We immediately see evidence that rural society is experiencing enormous problems because of a number of infected or contaminating people. This will have a tremendous impact on certain jobs and necessary public service. Of course, there are more medical procedures, avalanche surveillance, and service to elderly ones who may come to this time but who must always care for the most necessary public service. This document may therefore include transfer of jobs within a community, between rural society, between rural society and state, between local authorities, etc. In accordance with each individual official agreement, taking into account an average value. In this situation, however, the circumstances of the workers must always be considered at one time, such as if an employee or another person responsible for dealing with an underlying disease or circumstances that otherwise change activity would be at risk of safety or health or for which they are responsible. In such a situation, the employee should be excluded from the obligation of this arrangement. By means of the approved bill, public authorities will be authorized to act rapidly and safely at the emergency level of public defences and will be able to assign their employees to projects that have a priority and must be taken care of in these delicate times. It will have important and positive effects to cope with danger and to provide the necessary services that society needs at each time. At the preparation of the bill, they were working with the European Union, consultation with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, and contact with key representatives of the public organisation. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill. In the P.R. due to the epidemic of Covid-19, the legislation proposed by the bill is urgent to address the smaller rural areas, which are already experiencing a large proportion of employees in an environment that can affect a number of public services that must be maintained despite the need for a public emergency level. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u48	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this bill, according to the report, not only due to the current epidemic but also to the preceding events of winter, i.e. the danger of avalanches that we remember and the danger of volcanic eruptions and weather disasters that occurred during the winter. The reasons for making this bill are many, not just this epidemic. I'm going to ask the Minister a little bit on a few things. First, I want her to explain more fully what what what what is called a crisis really means by the law. I realize that's in a report. It's stated in the bill, and it's also in the law, but I'm wondering if the explanation presented in the report is sufficient, if it wasn't a reason to put directly into the bill itself when the time of crisis had arrived. I am aware, though, that generally people who take care of the public defense have some sense of when action is needed. I realize that, but I ask the highest. The minister is not sure if there was a basis for enforcing it, because the explanation is based on the report not quite easily understood by me. Second, I ask, "What talks have been made to stakeholders and particularly the employee organisation to make this bill? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Of course, there is now a need to update all the laws on public protection. We've had a lot of experience, and we're working on a new legal policy in the Ministry of Public Safety, as needed. These laws, however, must not wait. Today's legislation refers to the time of crisis as the highest application level, while the P.R. works today according to the grade of seriousness expressed in the regulations. Then we're talking about the points that Iceland has begun to recognize because we've been at an uncertain stage almost constantly since December. The stairs are just up to an emergency level that people experience for the first time in these times because of Covid. Emergency levels are defined as the occurrence of events that caused accidents on people and/or loss of workers. The task at this stage is characterized by immediate action to preserve life - saving assistance and efforts to avoid further accidents and to prevent further damages to the world. And there's a little bit more about this at the Public Defense Department. That's how it's defined. There is now a need for these levels directly in the legislation so that there can be no doubt that they can be activated in a public emergency situation, which are the levels being performed today at a number of times, such as during a number of times. A senator, whether an avalanche, a volcanic threat, or a epidemic, mentioned today. It is important to make this clear, but it is as clear as I think it is possible for a report, which can, of course, be added to the committee. It was not considered possible to include in the terms of the bill some point that is not defined in the law itself. I'll get to the discussion later in answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u50	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer, and wait for the reply to the discussion. I believe it is very important that the committee, if time is won, specifically agree with the officers and nurses that I expect to be the best members of the staff as well as the health care professionals who may be called in a moment of danger, as follows. It is important to talk with these classes, and especially with possible risks because they are at the front of most areas in which the crisis, such as this epidemic, has proved, as is the case with avalanches and weather, as is the case with many times. I think it's necessary to talk to these classes. It is said that there was a relationship with a major class. I want to know exactly what this relationship was like. Did these classes talk to you about this? This will be the classes that will be the most intense when this is discussed. I'm just gonna go to the first question. I mentioned whether to explain more clearly what a crisis is. As the report puts it, there is a time of danger between being a public defence emergency and a public defence crisis. Not only is there an emergency but it also seems to be something that could happen at risk. That's what I'm talking about. It says that when a crisis occurs when a governor specifically declared it, he probably declared it above the crisis level. What, then, is it that the State Marshal is especially to state when it is time for some sort of crisis? [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm asking the highest. Minister for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u51	A respectable president. The discussion discussed with BHM, BSRB, ASI, a teacher's relationship, nurses, doctors, and others. There were some comments that we made, including in a report. It is very important to have good consultation with these individuals, and this test puts special classes beyond those of others, but it may also test all the classes other than those that are usually in the front but need to move, be prepared to observe in times of danger, and there is no one to do it or to do anything else that needs to be done in order to maintain a particular public service. There may be a wide variety of positions. That's what I'm talking about. A senator asked me about my previous and second answer. I tried to explain that these points are not defined in the legislation. I've reiterated that she needs an update, but she didn't have time to complete it by making one change. Therefore, it is clear in the report that at a critical moment, this bill means the emergency phase of the public defense which is the stage we set for today. Of course, it would be wish that we could go along with all the public defense laws and make them clearer and in line with what we're seeing, but it's a future project, and I'm going to be the one to do it, like all the public defenses I've already started and set off before all this uncertainty came upon us. That work has been a little delayed for this and especially because of the pressures of the Federal Police Department in recent months. I have to take advantage of this opportunity to commend her for her efforts in the past few months. Of course, we are all under the control of the world, but it is the main consideration of all parties who need to be involved in matters like these.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u52	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I thank you again, the highest. Minister for Answers, and I'll discuss some of the points, the ones I asked about, and one or two more. Here we will discuss one of the laws that exist today because of the situation in society and not only because of the virus epidemic we are dealing with but also because of recent winter events, avalanche dangers, and volcanic danger. Thus, it is not only the epidemic that calls for this change but also the more events of winter call for a change in public defence. The objective of the bill is to enable work in a crisis situation, to resist the ability to please and render the necessary service at a dangerous moment. The bill expects to shoot in a new 19. and to current 19th degree. it will be 19. a. The article divided into three sections, first of which the article applies to the civil duty of public employees to act in behalf of public defence at a time of danger. Officials are allowed to assign employees temporary changes in their duties in order to carry out hazardous tasks. Finally, these employees are required to maintain the same remuneration at the time. Of course, this is true, and it may be necessary in times of danger for everyone to work hard to help. I think our community is still a force for people to put forth effort to help their neighbors and society if there is much need. It doesn't make any difference, though, that I don't have any particular comments about this bill going through. I have a few comments, as I mentioned to the highest level. Minister before, on the concept of a crisis. A definition of this is based on a lesser awareness not to be found in the public defences, not soon, but it is often mentioned. I'm not saying that public defenders, Marshals, or Marshals, who are in charge of action at a time, did not realize when the crisis is due. I don't mean it, I just think that when people are going to use a warrant to say goodbye, take it out of their jobs, transfer it between their own jobs, possibly between communities, which I don't comment on, they have to be clear legal documents behind them. The words about the moment of danger cause me a little heartache because it is not clear at all. I'm going to read a little bit from the report, with the permission of the president: A dangerous moment is thought to be in the sense of this arrangement when the Marshal has declared the highest level of public defense... This is understandable, it's an emergency. According to current stairway rule, the highest level of emergency is taken. It's perfectly clear. And then there's: ▪... or has declared its imminent arrival. When is that imminent? Is the danger level, which is the next level below an emergency level, sufficient? Or does a U.S. Marshal specifically have to state that an emergency is imminent? This is the whole point I'm asking you about. It seems that it is not enough to say that there is a crisis. Rather, it is the government's special way of declaring that the crisis is imminent. And when will that be? It's clearly in the emergency phase, but can it be in the crisis as well? When? Need to do so in particular? I think maybe you could adjust the procedure, explain a little bit about the time of that crisis. This may be relevant when you leave for an amazing number of people to do some self - determination work and perhaps go between parts of the country to prevent potential dangers. I think maybe the committee could take a look at this. I didn't see this in the law itself, even though the old law often refers to a time of danger. The second thing I'm going to mention is the most concerned people. The number of classes and public staff may be large, but, of course, police officers, nurses in the case of epidemics, and in most cases police officers as well as many others. I'm not gonna mention all that party. I believe it is very important that the committee calls the representatives of these classes for consultation and for a total, especially these two classes. Perhaps there are also hospital staff and others, and they can also be assigned to the committee. Then I'm especially talking about what I asked the highest. A minister on the risk because, as today, certain professions are being put at great risk when they are put in place for all of us in order to stop or prevent this crisis and to perform various tasks. Hence, it is important to discuss these classes with them and to examine their viewpoints regarding this change of law. V.E.G. A minister said that perhaps it was time to review these laws, and if I understood them correctly, there is some work at the Ministry to review them. There may be something else that might be adjusted in view of the fact that the public defense system has been activated repeatedly, more often than ever, because of events of various species. That's right, and I'll say it with the highest power. Minister on it. I'll show her 20. The law. I think there's something inside that's even forgotten to walk away. In 1 1. reports that the management of the region should be in the hands of a police officer in the relevant district. So says 20. that when you stop, the manager or the county may call every grown man available for immediate assistance in the interests of public defence. The county thing must be some old thing to clear out. They no longer play a direct role in the law unless it is stated in the 20th chapter. This reminds me of something else. The number of clients and police officials was reduced in increasing the districts as the number of rural governments dwindling. In the years that follow, rural governments are reducing their predicted numbers, increasing the size of the districts and the number of these modules. That is why the rural and regional settlements and districts that have not actually a police officer and that are not the seat of a local government or the seat of a public defence committee are growing. I'm pointing to the highest. This is the subject of the minister's office. That happened in the winter of the avalanche. I can take an example of Flats, where there is no one from the three lines I just mentioned, i.e. A police officer, a government officer, a public security committee. These pillars are not located there and in many other places. Perhaps it is due to the time when the public defence law will be revised to include some of the laws that the sheriff can in these cases, because the districts have become very large, perhaps by the tip of the local public defence committee or by some local community, have been appointed in the area that is remote or without the members I mentioned as a public defense link or representative who would become some kind of official party and take charge if the person was isolated. This could be considered in the revision of the law as well as what I mentioned about the wording at 20. " The words, " " "the time of danger, " " " and" the "things I know to the highest. " Minister's definitely working on it. Of course I support this bill and its goals. There must not be any barriers to us when we perform our public defenses and when there may be a great deal of urgency in calling out to help and to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-82.u53	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. It's just like what's wrong. A senator noted that many needs updates, but perhaps it is not as much need as the adjustment I bring now that needs to be approved quickly and well to make a special contribution to the communities that are already experiencing the epidemic as where important jobs are involved and important public services are involved. I take this discussion with me for the work being done, including with a new P.R. policy that ran out in 2017. We are finishing a new public security policy and, of course, will take what we have learned from our work during the past few weeks and months into it. Also, for the first time, I activated the Public Defense Commission to review the public defence response after a storm in December and their impact, how we react, and what we could do better. Let's hope something comes out of something we can also benefit from this work. There's a lot of other jobs going on. State Marshal's Department of Public Defense has been funded. There was a new man, Reynisson, now known nationally, who brought in with a state police officer just for years but who knows it well. There's also been an increase in the status values and reorganization of the department, and I know that a new marshal is also very interested in supporting this department, being very important. We've just seen the past miserably say how important this cooperation is and that we have good people on the bridge and clear policy on how we're going to deal with public health conditions like this and the conditions that have been here for the past few years.
