ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u1	The President has received a letter dated October 12th, from the chairman of the left movement ◯ green offering, and from the chairman of the Council of Independence Party on human changes in the committees of the Parliament. Changes in these paths including of the changes on the committee ship that were reported at the assembly session of October 1st. ... toprescription of why. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornólfjörður of the Council of the Left move. The changes are as follows: The chairman of the Council of the Left Motion has reported that Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir takes his place as the head of a universal and educational committee called them fully organized. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson takes up his seat as an assistant to a budget committee rather than the Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's Daughter. The chairman of the Independence Party has announced that Sigríður Ah. Andersen takes his seat as an assistant of the General and Education Committee instead of Álavor Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, and that Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson would take his place as a guardian of a financial committee instead of Brubbur Níelsson's son. Then, the two members have agreed on the following changes: that Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir takes place as the head of a budget committee instead of a Trausti Truster's Kárason, Trausti Trausti Friðbertsson, as a guardian of the Board of Sheeps instead of the Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson takes his seat as the head of a professional committee instead of the Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdjarnsótir, Birgison, and Óli, instead of Steinunn, Njläläríll Fribertsson, who takes his place as the chief foreign office in the National Committee for the Bjarny Islands of Oljarnar Gjörístir, and Kjöríllík Kjörður, who Þóra the branch office of Steinhjörður as a viceal committee of the United Árnadóttir. These personality changes, which are in the agreement between councils, are considered approved without vote if there is no objection.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u2	Mr. President. During this assembly, along with members of all groups, I present a proposal for an action plan against aging prejudice. It may seem odd to present such a language. Many people have wondered: " Is there such a thing in the community? However, we need only to ask ourselves, " How are the discussions, the communal systems, and other factors involved in dealing with older people? ' These people have to live on hospitals, fill expensive space, don't understand modern, can't drive, they don't know how to use computers, etc. Of course, this is a direct harmful view and a harmful comment when it is heard or said. They actually hinder our community from taking advantage of and paying attention to all the social services in older people and creating unnecessary gaps between generations in society. So I've made this suggestion, in which the Minister of Social Affairs is assigned to order a group of workers to get to the bottom of this, whether or not we can change this and for the better. You see, as a community, we are to rejoice in the variability displayed in different ages. We are not to approach it as a problem. Rather, we are to rejoice in the activities of every age. We are to approach the entire population, their expectations, their hopes, their desires without prejudice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u3	President. It is symbolic that when governments no longer get away with the sweep of the new constitution under the blanket, they are trudging away the truth of their indignity to the national will. A wall that has stood uncivilized for years, covered with graffiti, has suddenly become a priority for the Council of Control. It has not occurred to governments for one second to clean up the wall. Only one innocent question required: Where is the new constitution? Where is she? The European Parliament's Venetian Committee submitted the opinion of the changes to the constitution as the highest. Prime Minister intends to suggest. Especially is there a democratic procedure in the preparation of the Council of Government celebrations, making it plain that if the government is to explain its case, the matter must be thoroughly explained. Not merely saying that they think something better is better. Rather, they need to be explained in a material way why the proposals of a administrative body are unpleasant to them, as far as the democratics are concerned in the history of the 2010 National Assembly of 2012. V.E.G. The prime minister owes the nation a clear and convincing explanation of his route and the reason why much of the proposals of a governmental body approved in the Council of Nationalitation are given in 2012. Otherwise, voters, you can pick up the market account year after year and tape it out of the General Assembly in pay for those who do not respect your national law. Finally, I'd like to encourage all of us to enter the New York New Year's website and sign a challenge to our senators to legalize the new constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u4	Mr. President. At their last meeting on the export of share loans that are designed to reduce income and young people for the first purchase at an economic setting, a well - prepared board of directors received a fine presentation. By sharing loans, the state lends individuals 20% of apartment prices and does not borrow interest or payments. An apartment owner will then pay back the part of the government if the apartment is sold. It is crucial to ensure that 20% of the funds assigned to the share loans go to the country. Each of these may be a new home or an earlier setting. It is important to have one's own housing for the poor and young people running around the country, supporting housing security and positive urban development away from the economy. The construction and construction agency has informed us that there has been a sufficient supply in the capital area for the last eight months of housing that meets this requirement, about 600 apartments. In recent news, it has been clear that this is not the case. The remaining 40 new apartments that fall under this definition have been identified in the countryside and are not included in the example of reformed and renovated facilities that are also to be available. There is a great demand for these loans available from November 1, and now it is a construction contractor and rural partner to meet this new provision for housing through creative thinking and practical solutions, resulting in a quality of living conditions that will be useful to the consumers of income. There is no evidence that rural housing and housing programmes suggest that there is a great need for building up a practical home throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u5	President. I was going to talk about the attendance of senators at a committee meeting, but today's transition to the constitution is much more interesting. A recent report on a recent study says, with permission from the President, quoted by the Management Board's Management Board's Management Board's directorship: The Council's Department's Department's Department's Department's office received a tip from the prose and innovations on an inscription painted on the wall of the Ministry's housing for the weekend... We now took over late summer and made a contract with the Ministry to care for the surrounding premises and property, and this contract includes cleaning up all unscrupulous graffiti. And this was the first graffiti that came after we took... We just got a tip from the Ministry that there's been an autopsy. We've got surveillance systems and security around the houses. So it just showed that the wall had been painted. But the graffiti wasn't cleaned, just the question of where the new constitution was, you can see in the picture taken for about 30 minutes. There's a lot of graffiti right by there that somehow passed by the nice, high-pressure barpers. Then you wonder if it was the first graffiti they ever noticed. Had they looked a little further to the left, they would have seen a lot of graffiti. We are a bit in a situation where the government is a wall that stands in the way of a change in constitution according to national law. I just want to ask this simple question, "Why haven't they been moved away?"
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u6	Mr. President. Today, there are a number of systems in the community that are under great stress, and there are failures, some of which in the case of trust, but in other areas, they are more serious. Your health system has been able to feel the teawater in the wrestling with the virus. A thousand thanks to health care professionals around the country. The root is getting heavier in a hospital. Because of the epidemic, the epidemic has a major impact on all other activities. Now again and again, a familiar tone from which it flows. We can't graduate completed patients. They're weak. They're weak. Nurse's missing. Home service isn't enough. Patients are alone, unable to go home, or not able to make accommodations. Yes, Mr. President, there's a lot to discuss about the lack of long-term resorts. Is it because they are so few? No, I haven't. Relatively, we may not have world record, but we grow old in Europe record in that area. Is it because older people have less health in this country than they do elsewhere? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The game focuses on the community structure, on us, on the setting of our older people, what support we give them in order to enjoy a secure, loyal, independent life in the best housing with proper support, and what safety and modern health care we provide. We ignore countless opportunities for these people and tapes in the same recent year. The minister promises 200, 300, 400 new nurses. That settles it, and it's dead. When does this government intend to open its eyes to the fact that this service rage against older people will only end one way, on a screen? Mr. President. We are certainly not on the future in this regard, but one thing is sure to be solved right away, the graduation problem that is now facing one more time in a land hospital and will be restored. And it must be ensured that the hospital can play a vital role as an emergency hospital in our critical times. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u7	V.E.G. President. There are reports of increased domestic violence in the third wave of the Covid pandemic, which can lead to a large part of the risk of alcohol and drug abuse. THE U.S.A. has offered children an alcohol - based, high - cost psychology service, but this education plays a key role in helping children cope with the problems of alcohol and drug abuse. This is a preemptive work that is vital, even for children to realize that a sick person is really two people. Similarly, the U.S.A. has provided a parental education program for parents of children who have problems with addiction. Today, there are about 500 individuals on the waiting list at the Hospital Vog. I've heard tragic reports of older citizens who have been very isolated from the Covid epidemic and heard stories about how people are helpless because of their consumption. The problem is a lot hidden in this situation, but it's there, and I'm sure it'll grow. There is no increase in funding to the U.S. now. Although there is some increase due to an index in the course of years, there is no real rise. This year's situation brought about over half of the money for fairy sales. THE year has been paid for about 600 beds per year, but now it will be halved. I direct my words to the World Fundament Committee to address this problem and to provide handsomely with the expensive resources that are evident in the activities of the U.S.A., which for decades have shown tremendous success in the treatment of addictions, so it has been observed in many countries around the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u8	A respectable president. The crown - virus epidemic causes heavy loads. Happily, there is evidence that vaccine development is successful this winter. Norwegian authorities expect vaccine to be ready early next year. Høie Høie, health minister of Norway, declared this morning when he gave the Norwegian Council oral report on the struggle against Covid that a vaccine against Covid will be free for all Norwegian citizens. There will be no costs for individuals, communities, or hospitals. The Norwegian State Fund will pay all the cost. In the Faeroe Islands, people are still optimistic. It calculates the health authorities that the first Rebes will be vaccinated before Christmas. At Steig Nielsen, attorney for the Faeroe Islands, the French media said that by noon the ever - increasing national government will see to it that all Movers are being vaccinated for free. What will the government do? Is preparation for the implementation of vaccinations in this country, and who will pay for it? Will the bills be sent to the public, or will pay the state funds for it, and how will the organization become organized during vaccinations? Do high - risk groups, such as those with underlying diseases, older people, and health care professionals, come first at the time of vaccination? In Norway it is determined that rural communities will be put in charge of planning vaccination within their bases, but the government will pay all expenses for this. Has the government ever considered this? Why not make it wise for the government to inform the General and then inform the people on these matters? How are we going to make the vaccination?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u9	Mr. President. Although I say that climate change is the greatest challenge mankind has ever faced, I tell you nothing new. But it is true. Our future on earth depends on the fact that together we all make radical changes in our production and life - style. The responsible way out of this historic unemployment crisis right now to the green future lies in a truly green revolution. The United States has put forth an important list of measures to combat disaster and unemployment in the process. In this situation, it is wise to set priorities for climate activities, which also have a stimulating influence on country demand and employment levels. We're supposed to use a good interest rate and investment vector to attack a much more efficient green structure than we've made and to increase the value and production capacity of the nation's population and to prepare new green export branches. But to do so, we have to set up new goals for at least 55% of greenhouse gas reduction by 2030 and major climate control. Then we add to the Union a green investment fund with 5 billion stocks to support the development of green jobs. We want to attack the construction of industrial parks and green high-tech industry, advance public transport and speed of the city line. We want to speed up the energy exchange, stop the new reports of fuel and diesel cars before and at the same time, we need to build up a powerful loading system and the power of the spread system. We also want it to be attacked in a real jungle effort. Clearly, employment will not cope with this problem on its own, so it is essential that the State step in with force and start a green job revolution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u10	V.E.G. President. Meetings are not just a good and beautiful term. A concordance can be a powerful tool, promising to increase the likelihood of success in projects that under certain circumstances call for measures that need to be controlled. Happily, the battle with the crown virus is unprecedented, yet it is an example of such circumstances, circumstances that directly require and require solidarity. Today, when we experience increased intolerance to disease prevention, talk about freedom, and growing concern over economic and social consequences of uncertainty and uncertainty over time, it is understandable that they will grow in solidarity. Then it is important and perhaps it is wise to remind ourselves of what is involved, what it can and should be returned and what is involved in each case, the use of disease, social and economic measures, and to consult a common understanding of the issues involved. Our tools work best when we are united, certainly in the race for time, on a broadly clear rule that shapes the decision we make. When it comes to that decision and the guidelines, we all agree that the decision will follow. We even have slogans for this. The tool will work when it comes to preventing the disease. We know this, and so all of us should be united in the outworking of the action in that area. Let us recognize that we are in a different place in life, not necessarily agree on how far and wise it is to walk when it comes to rules. It presents a challenge for endurance, for tolerance, for respect of rules, to unite in the course of action. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u11	A respectable president. Yesterday we received a welfare committee to our Homeland and Engineing Institute to review the first steps in preparing to enforce the shared loan laws. A memo submitted to the committee and has now been published officially shows the number of new apartments sold in the first eight months of the year and met the prices and sizes required, based on the regulations made in the regulations of the Regulation. There are 220 apartments in the capital area and 545 apartments all over the country. It's something. It is the assessment of the Homing and Mobilization Agency that this provision for the housing market should be used to successfully end the above figures well with the analyses that the Agency did when the options were first considered. The Agency has no reason to believe that a budget of loans can be purchased at 400◯500 apartments, which fall below this size and number of rooms, can be followed. The law has a value on November 1st. and since the bill was adopted at the General Assembly, both individuals and construction contractors have shown this keen interest. The aim of a sentence of law on sharing loans is to make it easier for earners and other people to gain their first property. It is no less important to encourage the builder to build an economic living house throughout the country that suits those groups. Share loans are creating this impulse. The idea of sharing loans is derived from Scotland, where they have given good results. It has resulted in increased supply at economic facilities, both in cities and in the scattered areas. The experience of a Scotsman shows that construction has increased in the rural area, which would be a positive development in the right direction here. It is much more expensive to buy a new home in the country rather than an older home in the same place, as there is a market problem in a real estate market in the country. President. It's amazing to watch the discussions and news transfers that have been tried to turn out and to speak down the share loans. I ask myself, " What's behind it? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u12	Mr. President. Now, at the beginning of a new council, you would think that the government would put the government in charge of a number of issues that would take place or prepare society for the recent shock that has become quite predictable, i.e. There is much or great reduction in the income of a state fund with unprecedented interest in spending at the same time. Three of the nation's largest currency branches fight in banks. The tourism industry is at freezing level, the aluminium industry is in a high flux and the fishing road has been able to cope with hairy and lobster failure in recent years, and the macrolide is uncertain. The time of the council and its committee are precious, never as it is now. At such times, a government should provide basic warnings about how to react to the situation, the gross success of domestic production, and its natural defenses. Hard maintenance measures in the management system where all unnecessary waste and broil would be removed. Professional and stimulating measures, reducing taxes and curses on people and businesses. Anticipating the terrible consequences of unemployment in the homes of the country and preventing families from being expelled from their homes, as happened here a decade ago. Simple regulations, making the administrations more services to serve companies and the public. But what is the program for the Council today and the last days when it is time for the presidency? It presents the focus of the government preferably: names of men - so would be putting down our individual human tradition from land mine, the true national characteristic of the Icelanders, instead of making it possible to solve the unique, difficult issues that seem to be the cause of this law. The bill on the sex ratios of the committees and of the Generals' administrations, the position and right of the sex, the new legislation on equality, where the management of these cases seems to be made more complex and systematic than ever before. The appointment of a new panel of equal rights, as the first has proved to be an inconvenience to governments. Three primes on sexual autonomy. A bill about a cab driver's driving - please destroy a cab driver's working environment now. During the collapse, the people came to the point of selling alcohol at the General Assembly at the time. It seems similar to us today; pets, and matters that may wait. But urgent topics are out of the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u13	V.E.G. President. During the week, that event took place at the highest rate. The Minister of Education and Culture, Lilja Dögg Dög Alfreðsdóttir, proposed a comprehensive policy by the Icelandic government on filmmaking. This is an event, for it is the first government policy on filmmaking. I welcome the contribution of policy, especially now that a good TV material fills up in the days of many who stay at home. Now is our chance to contribute good and good things, not just for the Icelanders, but for the whole world. You see, in these strange times, a good movie can improve our mental well-being. Movieism to the year 2030 guards the ambitious course of the article into the future. Part of it is a new investment fund in the culture fund and creative articles in Iceland, a fund that supports television shows. I think we can all agree that we enjoy watching Icelandic TV programs, but financing on television has long been heavy. In recent years, we have been busy watching good and good Norse TV programs, but it is not for good reason that our neighbors have worked hard to produce it. This new fund will be reassigned to the Norse Films and TV Funds. Me and the Icelanders have talent, stories, and ideas to get big on TV shows. Now the waiting support. V.E.G. President. By this procedure, we will not only support television programs and films but also support other jobs in our country. Everything stays in the hands and together we're gonna do more. Moviemaking creates considerable value for the state funds as well as the creating of a fourth thousand direct and secondary jobs. When autumn and evening come and rain come upon the windows, how much better it is to light candles, to sit in a sofa with an Icelandic wool blanket, and to buy an Icelandic TV show! Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u14	A respectable president. I'm going to give the highest compliment today. Seafood and agricultural ministers. While we may not do enough to give commendation for what is well done, ministers today are to be commended. This morning's job website is presented with a report that says, on the permission of a president: ▪ Kristján Þór Júlíusson, marine and agricultural ministers, has decided to lose all the remunerations of the Food Institute in 2020 due to the impact of the COVAD-19 pandemic on Icelandic food producers. It's an example, and I'd like to encourage other government ministers to follow through. That's what I'd like to say, give me a bill from the top. Secretary of the budget for 2021. That's where it's a bit sourer. The prime minister suggests increases in carbon charge, oil tax, general, and a special mile tax, general and special fuel fees, automobile tax, and tax from alcohol and tobacco. It is assumed that these increases alone will bring up the state budget of nearly 1,800 million. K. every year. In this case, the remuneration fee for financial monitoring should be established, i.e. increase in the rate of pay due to the payment of the debt's post, change in the amount of emissions under climate law, and other factors. Then the plan is to raise the so-called nasal taxes, i.e. The bill of radio and payment for the elderly. In addition, there are a number of registrations of the public institutions that would be appropriate to automatically stop an increase, while there are examples from the present time and then the minister of finance was placed in the government of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, the son of Gunns, in the years 20133/42016, where it was decided to stop the rise automatically for one year. If there was reason for it at that point, it is certainly present this year. The middle class will when they vote against all the remunerations I mentioned above, for these funds will not be made out of nothing but will be picked up in individual and corporate pockets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u15	Mr. President. At the beginning, I want to be a little positive, never lacking, and agree with a point in the speech of the gill. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason here spoke earlier. I can agree with him that in such times as this, the government's priorities, the Generals, are discussing the issues involved in dealing with the crown virus, whether with preventative measures, other such official measures, or economic measures to reduce the effects of the virus, and to help us recover quickly. That's why we're talking about. paritaprevir I agree with Karl Gauti Hjaltason. I say, however, that since the release of the virus on spring, this has been a priority for both the government and the World Congress. When these are matters that concern the handling of these situations, they have certainly come first, and many times they have been in good cooperation with the government. I hope that it will continue to be that when we have issues that are urgent because of the circumstances, we can unite in giving them priority and all our efforts to do what we can to cope with the situation. But I disagree. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason means that other issues cannot be arranged and without any reason to speak in such a way that the duration of the council is not well spent with other forms of government launches. This must be done progressively according to what they happen and what they call for discussion and payment. But the priority in these critical times must be about how we react to the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u16	Mr. President. We have recently received a new answer from the Independence Party on the refugee problem that people should be allowed to come to this country under the pretext that they are going to work. Not all refugees are looking here. The members of the Independence Party have then pointed out that the problem is that that that way is not exactly open, and that is absolutely true. But for the three years that this government has spent, the Independence Party has not provided any suggestions to change the rules of professional rights. However, the party has offered a series of conservative alien elements over and over, which will lead to a lack of shelter for refugees in Iceland. That road will not remain open either. For some reason. Councilmen VG at the Hall of Congress and say that refugee camps are out of the question. I don't know why they're protesting something they say isn't on the program. Maybe it's because they're not exactly sure. The members of the Independence Party are now talking about how long ago this rule of work should have been changed and the provision of foreigners to come here to work. Why have they not thought of this before? Do these senators not know that they belong to the greater part of the council? Don't they know they're government? Do they walk about with good ideas but, unfortunately, do they not know anyone who can accomplish them? I'll let them know that the opportunities are here, and the support is at the plagion's room, and I want a bigger part to go that way. If you want to open up Iceland to good people in the Icelandic labour market, you will have a grand opportunity for the job market and for the nation to come. There will not be aground on the smaller parts. But it seems so fun that those ministers who represent foreigners, Ministers of Justice and Social Affairs, sit in the same government, and be able to change this one, two and three if they want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u17	Mr. President. The discussion on the priorities of the General Assembly is of interest. I can honestly say that priorities are important, and it is important that we be careful. Lately, both in this room and even in the community have been told of the negative consequences of our going too far in certain measures that impair the individual's freedom of speech and action. Since then, it has been pointed out that the most important thing to do is to protect the lives and health of all of us so that we can enjoy that same freedom. The discussion here in the past few minutes about what the council should do and should not emphasize in this situation a bit of the same. How important it is that we stress our urgent work! All of us know that the loss of jobs and the failure of domestic income, individuality, and corporate income is one of our greatest projects today. But there must be a requirement for us to perform that assignment without taking it out on the number of people who have long waited for reliefs, perimeters that have long been waiting for their release. Happily, there are several such matters on the program here today. I warn you that we are going to approach this urgent project with either the Δir, or the ideologies. We can take care of our mission to ensure justice, to ensure reasonableness, and to ensure the equality of all society's citizens, as far as possible, and to work on the basic reforms that the Korean epidemic brings to us. [[The president calls.]] So I look forward to the discussion today and the next few days about both major groups. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u18	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize with a change in the law of the General Assembly. I present the bill on behalf of the Trustee's Committee for Presidency of the Generals. The whole committee is on the move of the bill, along with the audience members of the Wings and the Gangs. The bill of this is the 80th matter of the Council on deck. 81. In connection with an overall review of the law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men, the prime minister requested that a survey be made of the council's will that Congress be adjusted in accordance with the laws of equality so that the level of gender in committees, counsels, and general governments would be equal. In discussing this matter, the prime committee considered it proper for the bill to adjust the political order, change of the Senate's internal plays, to be established according to either the presidents of a council with a president or a prime committee. The highest yield of the bills. On the other hand, prime minister on equal positions and equal rights of the sex and on the political affairs of equality has now been proposed and is actually on the next schedule for this meeting, along with other related issues. Thus, this is the bill, of the change in the council order, of the proportion of women and men in committees by Generals and Governments, of committees and of advice chosen by the Council, closely linked and part of the overall re-examination of equal law. In the 15th. Assimilation laws require that the proportion of sex being equal to or less than 40% for more than three agents by national and local administrations be taken into account. It has been considered that this law of equality is not appropriate when representatives of committees, councils, and governments are elected at the General Assembly, including with reference to legal evidence, however, some criticism has been directed to the General for not being too careful about equality, including for the election of the Parliament's regular committees. Thus, in view of discussions and views on equality in the community over the past few years, it is reasonable to suggest a change in the political order to ensure that the proportion of women and men in committees, advice and the management of the General Assembly is at the same rate as the circumstances allow. The objective of the bill is to make changes in the council so that there must be a gender basis to the election of vice presidents and division of members and, of course, to the choice or vote of a representative of committees, councils and governments handled by the General Assembly. There, be sure to make sure that the proportion of women and men is as equal. It must always be kept in mind, however, that this will always be limited to the proportion of women and men at the General Assembly at any given time. Similarly, the gender ratios within the individual councils can create barriers that are difficult to overcome and weighed against other principles, such as those that members of Congress receive their relative resources reflected in committees, etc. It is vital that this double nature be kept in mind. These include the International Parliamentary Committees (WCCs), the Committee for Presidency, the Committee to Presidents, or the Committee to Deal with the General Qualitions to bring in here each time. Likewise, odd sex ratios within individual councils, especially the larger, if that is the case, can create difficulties. It is different when the Council has been given the legal task of choosing for governments or councils outside the council and, of course, is not bound by some percentage of elected agents in such an appointment or election. First of all, in paragraphs 3 and 14. Parliamentary elections that require the election of vice presidents and the order of the Synod Committees will be added to guide the proportion of women and men to vote in committees so that it is equal to the results of General elections and gender proportions within the council. As mentioned earlier in my case, it is clear that the General Assembly is bound by the findings of elections, and the proportion of women and men within the council is also having an effect. Of course, this does not change the fact that it is very important to consider these important views as possible, that there is a principle in the synopsis in these matters, and to look for the best possible outcome when choosing regular committees or choosing a prime committee at the beginning of each terms. Mr. President. It is clear that this principle, or guide rule, as it were, will lay down considerable duties or burdens on members of the Parliament when they begin at the beginning of each terms with their important task of trying to achieve a common status of committee elections. Second, a more definitive change in 82 st. Parliaments on elections of committees, recruitment and management of the Generals, and there added an order to ensure that the proportion of women and men equal to and not less than 40% of both genders in the presence of more than three agents. Here it is recommended that there be a far more undisputed rule than the vote of the prime committee or fasting committees, since the council is not bound by the results of the General elections. In line with the proposal that new equality laws are stated, of course, that provisions for the proportion of women as well as men do not prevent the vote of people with neutral registrations into national records, in order to be taken into account of the individual situation, as well as the sexual autonomy laws. In this regard too, the terms of engagement are being updated to the rhythm of new legislation in this field and are well established. Mr. President. I have finished reporting on the main subject of the bill but I would like to let it be said at the end of the practice that the basics of changing the law on the General Assembly will be discussed with the Commission and Control Committee. But since the General Information and Education Committee will likely agree, such suggestions will be discussed on all the equality issues related to this matter, including the two basics from the highest level. However, this time the bill is going to the General and Education Committee after this discussion so that all these bills can be accompanied and taken together. I have informed the chairman of the administration and monitoring committee on that matter and I believe that this is an understanding of the evidence. Of course, at the end of the discussion, I would like to show that the General and Education Committee can request the opinion of the administrative and surveillance committee on this matter in which it is certainly intended to become part of Congress creations, and that it would be a good thing if it were to be done. But I think there's a better kind of work and savings in that one of the committees has all these big equality issues to consider, and that's a universal and educational committee. Mr. President. I have concluded my case and suggest after this discussion, the matter will be passed to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u19	A respectable president. This refers to the duties of the council groups in order to carry out and enforce these laws, and I merely wondered about the consequences. We're here with our own independent party commission at the council, each of which usually appoints one member of the Parliament to each committee. Some groups of others, and these may be more appropriate to groups that include more members of each committee. But if the results of the individual council decision for each party become a certain gender ratio in one committee, who can say to any group: You are responsible for fixing this rate, and you are not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u20	I don't think I actually talked about responsibilities, at least in a legal sense. It is clear that this change places no legal obligation as such to members of the council. What I was referring to is that now, from 2011 to 13th C.E., the principle of Congress is the principle. If I recall correctly, in the big article on elections in committees, it is attempted to achieve an overall agreement between government and government opposition and all council members and to divide confidentiality and to look to the relative level of Congress. It involves both design and design in the committees, and it also takes note of examples of prehumanity in these committees. It is an enormously complex puzzle that all know, and it is in the history of that change that if it becomes a law, an additional rule will be introduced into the work of the Councilmen to whom they see them, a guide rule that one of the council leaders is as good as the circumstances offer, as the general proportions and proportions of individual members of Congress offer. The task of the council classes is complex, and that is what I was referring to. If an agreement is not reached then, the project will usually move to two blocks, a greater part and a smaller part, offering a different list of each and we should expect that within these blockers, it would continue to try to achieve the best sex distribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u21	A respectable president. I just wanted to review the results of the bill, positive and technical. How positive it is that there is, in fact, a goal to achieve such an equal proportion! I want to start by making it perfectly clear. However, problems with ordering are present, as I entered the counterweight earlier. Independent units, members of Congress, provide one member of a committee, no matter what the rest of them do. No group of members of Congress asks what members of the Parliament should be listed, what kind it should be, or what it is. It is only on the custody of each body of members to appoint members of the committee in each committee. As a result, yes, there may be women or just men on one committee. What is this bill about asking the question, "Wait, isn't there anything you can do about it? " That's as far as the bill goes. Prattian, no group of members of the council can order another category to bring anyone between committees, say: You should take this member from this committee and replace him with someone else. It's just theoretically impossible. Then we'd be talking about a very careful use of power. I want people to know what the goal is, what the fence of the law is and where it is. Where does the legal obligation and understanding of the law end? It always ends with every member of Congress saying: "This is the senator who is going to this committee, and there is no one who can change it. It's just that way. Without a doubt, the goal is, and the discussion is about, trying to reach a conclusion. But in the end, it is prachicically just one person who can actually say something about who's supposed to fix a sex point on a committee. It is never that much more of a council or more on a committee or anyone can decide to take one away to replace someone else with a gender ratio or something like that. No one can say that this class, but not the other, should adjust the sex ratio. This is just a practitional point regarding a particular balance of power at the council and the internal office of each senator and members of the council. Another thing I would like to add to the discussion is that perhaps more than one member of the body could be assigned a legal obligation to a body of members with more than one member of the committee. Rather, it can be said that it is some kind of richer obligation to maintain equal sexual ratios. As part of a financial committee, there was an e.g. The independent group of three men, until a change was announced today. With these laws, it is an intriguing fact. If something were wrong, it could be done in terms of these goals and proportions in a slightly clearer legal interpretation. But as for the independence of each body of Parliament and every senator against his seat in the committee, we must be absolutely clear that yes, we want to achieve those goals. But no, they can't be forced.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his word on this bill. I think we agree on our goals, and actually we do. Today, members of Parliaments are dealing with a wide range of issues, and many of them demand a great deal of negotiations and are quite successful in solving them. I think it's pretty clear -- it's perfectly clear, and it's also been presented in the case of an authority, the highest. The president of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon - that this does not require a legal obligation to use this, to achieve these goals. So the question is, Counts out. A senator's recommendation in this document increases the likelihood that we will reach the target of gender equality as far as it goes? This is something we've had on the list of jobs when sorting into committees. We've tried to do what we can. Today, there is an even clearer and clearer declaration of the will of the Generals. Is this not just one logical step in that direction, and is it even more likely that we will achieve this goal? Or thinks so. A senator that there is some vague understanding of the role here? Has a what? A senator is concerned that members of the council are fulfilling certain duties that they cannot fulfill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u23	A respectable president. These are very good questions, I appreciate them. First, it is a law, and in these laws it says that it makes sure that the ratio is equal. Although we're here discussing what this really means - and I'm beating the bad that this can't mean that a party, rather than somebody else, can be forced into the committees to correct the ratio here is spoken of - it has become a law. What is needed for it to be carried out is some kind of process it should take. But there is no such thing, so I believe that independence between members of Congress and members of Congress is completely spent. It's good, though, to be clear about this. It was vague, it was such an unwritten rule, so to speak, one of them. I like that it's getting clearer, it lives better between Congress when you're working with these things. At least it's not negative. If people in general want to observe what the council approves, do not talk about national pay, it is better to keep them in the law, even though there is a theoretical impossible with regard to the independent decision of each body member. The Prattic impossible is still there, but having it by law makes it more likely that it will produce results.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u24	Mr. President. I'd like to have a few words about this bill. I just wanted to guess, as long as I can remember, that, of course, I'm happy to get the case to the General and Education Committee where I'm seated and can continue to discuss it there. I have to say, though, that I may not feel at all necessary to connect this with the bills to the highest degree. The following is where the prime minister moves. In my mind, the issues related to the General Assembly are considerably different from the issues involved. I might as well have anticipated that this would be part of a board of administration and monitoring and that I would get independent coverage there, even though I'm not likely to have any cause at the time of the shooting. Never in the past can I agree with a considerable amount of what you're talking about. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson spoke earlier about the technical problems that may be concealed in his intention of enforcing Article 1 and 2. magazines, which are shaped by the articles. Of course, it's presented, like the highest. The president could about, of course, a principle to observe the gender ratios of the prime committee and the committees, but with the premonition that it is said to be the equivalent of the general elections and gender rates within the council. It can be said that the articles as they appear here primarily include putting into the Senate guidelines that have at least recently been established by members of the council in committees. It is tried to make sure that, based on the way the General elections have been done, who have been elected at the Council, and for what categories. Of course, it is true, as it were. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson showed that one congregation cannot be demanded to tell others what to do by the way he conducts certain tasks here within the council, so that it is said. That is true whether the body is large or small. Although larger categories may be larger than smaller categories, they may not always be. The members of the United States must always be independent of whom they choose as members of their individual committees. The point mentioned here, this principle of 1 and 2 Peter 3: 1. J., of course, has been discussed at the council committee and has been developed in conversation there. Section 3. is a little different in nature, both in the face of opposition or in its subjects and in its implementation. It is elected by committees working outside the council. Indeed, it is true, as expressed in the case of the highest court. President, that there are groups of members of Congress that do not place themselves in the same manner as when choosing from members of a council or members of a council; the scope is more and therefore easier to respond to such views. However, I have to guess that I find it hard to plan to go over the rules of sexuality for the Commission to a panel of committees that follow stories to reflect political proportions, which can be of all kinds and depend on a variety of factors other than the sex of the nominees, so I have such general notice in this regard. Output 3. When I looked at it here after the bill was submitted, it was quite novel. In fact, it can be said that this is the first rule of general order, which takes into account the general rule of equality that the ratio should not be less than 40% for more than three agents. It adds a requirement for the position of individuals with neutral gender registration. I don't know exactly how to put it together the other rule, what it's gonna be like in praxize, I can't figure it out. But it is at the end of the third rule, which says: The proportion of women shall never be less than 40%. I have to say, it's a little out of the question and I don't have any particular explanation for this. I think this implementation must be something that comes to mind when it comes to the committee. Without my going to spend many words on this rather, I just wanted to put these views into question. Personally, I believe, and probably at some point have expressed it, that it is preferred to be in the council's committee on the basis of a percentage position at the council, that members of the council, or after cases of government and government opposition, will be represented by members of the council in accordance with percentages in the council, reflecting the findings of democratic elections. I think it's a 14th. present, from 2011, in fact, there are difficulties and complications. If I were to hire this one person, of course not, I'd go to the 2011 commission, because with some other changes that were specific in 2011, and I participated in it, I'd say so, I don't think they've led to a better job at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in charge of the positions of groups that include more than one member of the committee. In fact, they have a greater impact on the sex ratio in the committee. The Independence Party is now with two female members and a lot of men, and the Central Party has one woman and a full pile of men. The central category is e.g. with two seats on the environment and transport committee and the job committee, if I recall correctly. Would that not really mean trouble? paritaprevir One member of the two committees would have to be a member of the Árnadóttir's Kolbrún Meal to settle this just? I'm not talking about the way a financial committee was at the Independence Department. It would have had to be fixed there. What effect does this law have on the decisions of individual councils, even though it is not a matter of the overall composition, and on the choice of the members of Congress itself when he has more than one choice?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u26	That's a good question. Really, I could answer her, so it doesn't have to have any effect. This may not have any effect. That's what the situation is, like what's wrong. A senator rightly pointed out that the Independence Party party has two women who can be appointed in the council, but it has nine men who can be appointed. And it's arranged in some way. It's arranged, like a sledgehammer. Senators must be aware, after a lot of other viewpoints than just sex. It is also arranged. depending on where the body counts its strengths, the field of interest for the members of the council, etc. So the principle of this kind will never bind the hands of members of a council, small or large, in this regard. I don't think it should. It may be that there are others who feel that their hands should be bound in this regard. But I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u27	President. As a computer scientist, I find this to be an enormously interesting problem, just a combination to make and an independent combination to play from. That's why I'm very interested in this matter. Aside from my sex friendship, I find it most interesting to try to reach positive goals with an arrangement that would include an impossible option, such as the dog. A senator has crossed over. It would be a problem for the nation if it were not a member of a committee with both interest and knowledge of that committee, whether a man or a woman, to be the subject of such conversions that we see to see. This is a major problem in general, the sexist and the sex ratio, and I find it a very interesting problem that is being tried to solve. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In spite of all of this, I feel positive about putting it out in this way to try at least. [[The president calls.]] But this is a very interesting problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u28	Mr. President. I'm sure I have a little less sense and less interest in this than in statistics, but I think I understand what's going on. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is leaving with this. It is, in effect, saying: Here is a principle or a guidelines or the procedure that will never be able to enforce 100%. That's how I understand him, and I can totally agree with that. I just wanted to say that this is no longer any longer than the efforts of those goals to be met based on the gender rates within the council and on the way the elections go. In itself, that is all well said. This, of course, is in harmony with what members of Congress have tried to do when they have been setting up for the past few years or at least from the moment I began to follow it. Then there is another debate that we can ask ourselves, whether the Convention should be the rules that should be of any purpose or objective. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u29	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect the speedy deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u30	President. I was so unfortunate that I missed giving an answer to a talk. paritaprevir Björn Ármannsson, the Birgir of Gunnarsson, was so lucky. paritaprevir So I was able to strike two birds in a single stroke and answer to a problem. A senator, but actually he has a conversation with both of them. He is privileged to be a spokesman for the two of them. I have listened attentively to the discussion that has taken place and must admit that I am not quite the problem that I feel has been pointed to here earlier in the discussion that I do not fully understand. Like what? A senator has entered, Mr. President, is here referred to as looking for a way of life and something like that. Earlier in the discussion, it was said that there could be no clear requirement or what it was like today. But this is something different than simply being done every week when the committees are ordered to keep the sex ratios by the law, for example, in which the process of execution is carried out. The Independence Party Ministry, class of what? A senator, must this be fulfilled? Member States in the town of the nominees, and they have to somehow work together because they have the best sex ratios, i.e. In the spirit of law, though this host, which is called, will not be enlarged. Isn't this practise all over here almost every day, and why is there a problem here? The only thing is here is that we've got 63 senators here, but we're not on this bill just assume that it's not a simple one, but it's the most searching? What, then, is the problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u31	Mr. President. Hv. In fact, a senator himself answered and may have missed out on some of our twins'conversations. paritaprevir The son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, and mine. We were just discussing that it was actually being introduced into a convention principle or a directive that has been carried out within the council as far as possible. Of course, it is possible to consider the results of the General elections and gender rates within the council. If this were absolute rule in the same way as in terms of e.g. The administrative committees appointed by counsellors could lead to an unattainable situation, e.g. A panel may appoint only women, or men alone, to avoid being assigned to a committee under some circumstances. With 1st and 2nd pars. this is taken into account. Then there is another discussion. A senator may be able to accept an opportunity that is much more general and broader and is concerned about whether he should have sexuality or not. And where I'm not sure we were. A senator will agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u32	President. The best answers always come when you simply ask and answer yourself and do not have to interfere with the conversation with some other viewpoint. Hv. A senator may have met the nail on his head and actually drew out what I wondered, " Am I living under his words on these matters? ' I don't see why. A senator is justified. Because of the way 1st and 2 grasses are put here, I don't see that the situation is at hand. A senator talks about how to surface. That's why I wonder, it may be that there's an attitude. A senator who promotes sexuality in general uses his words? So when he disagrees with equality in general - I allow myself to take the discussion there first. A senator began discussing this on a general note - an effort to maintain the greatest balance between the sexes, actually just two?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u33	Mr. President. First, I wanted to correct it, if it was. A senator experiences it so that I will lie against Article 1 and 2. The bill. I won't. In fact, I noted that these articles involve some kind of guidance, some principle, that cannot be strictly carried out. This, of course, is in line with what has been practised or carried out here by the council groups when they have sat down and tried to establish some universal arrangement in committees. However, regarding the general question of sexuality, I described, and still declare, doubts about sexuality in general and like a whale. A senator will be watching them, but I don't have any doubt about this. [[The president calls.]] I think equality is better achieved by conversation, by evolution, by the implementation rather than by a explicit law letter in this regard. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u34	Mr. President. I just want to say something, for to be honest, I don't fully understand the concern of the above words. It seems there is full scope for that reality, or that position if the gender proportions of members simply don't offer full equality here. But I also think about it if we look at political developments, what happened here, for example. In the 2020 election, when the proportion of women fell very dramatic at the council, I think that it took between 48% and 38%, that we would be at the same time expressing doubts about being able to take these steps. Should we not really turn the matter around, that the council strike that tone, thus protecting the way for the political parties? Of course, it is not an accident that the proportion of women in the council failed at this time because there are certain categories that simply do not fit in with the same age as gender ratios. To that end, I just wanted to reiterate it: When you look at the regulations, they're very mild - tempered. They set up a set goal, set a theme, and allow a certain amount of space. But I don't think the General is in the position to be able to tell the community how it behaves when it comes to the equality of the sex if they don't trust themselves to follow this procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u35	V.E.G. President. I choose, as I did in my answers to what. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér, that I am not speaking in my words to express opposition to pars. The bill. I just draw attention to the fact that, as the law puts it, the reality that purpose or plans cannot be carried out on certain proportions of committees regardless of the results of the General elections and the appointment of members of Congress. It just doesn't work. So I'm focusing on someone other than my party, and there's no such thing as that I can't knock. The middle party, who only has one member of her body, to have one woman everywhere, where the Middle Party has two representatives. You can't, it says itself. In my case, the situation is a little simpler because of the decision of the General election. Then there are the ways in which categories choose in their list of languages. It is the matter of voters whether or not they choose the particular category. If groupings go, e.g. that, as has long been done in my category, it is difficult to control in advance the definition of gender ratios. It is simply a force of votes that leads to that conclusion. For example, when it comes to the council committees, the situation may differ considerably from that of the administrative committees, for example, in which there is one officer who has a different way of handling matters than we do here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u36	Mr. President. Now it sounds to me that we basically do not disagree. The senator standing here realizes the point. paritaprevir This isn't exactly the case with an Birgir Ármannsson. My view may be that I don't see that there are any great warning signs on this trip. The law is open in its word, and I'd be very sorry if the Allieds don't have the guts to stand by the idea that it is a general theme where a sex ratio can be achieved. It's the message that shines through. Of course, the situation arises that it is impossible to deal with. But I don't think we have time to approach that goal so that it won't be reached. Of course, it must be the goal for the ratio to be equal. And in this context, I also want to say, because there are times when there is a conflicting view of recruitment - as if it could not be a critical view of having sex.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u37	Mr. President. It's good for us to end up in harmony, me and you. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir. Looking at these viewpoints can be very challenging. Similarly, when it comes to committees, various other viewpoints are viewed. As mentioned in my earlier case, members of the council must especially look to the strengths of the members of that body, their interests, and where they are most likely to be useful, when they select their representatives as special committees. It can depend on a whole range of views other than sex. It is not that it may include some abuse or some discrimination against the other sex to be arranged in a certain way. It is not to belittle women, since the above was an example of three representing the Independence Party as men. [[The president calls.]] Men are not being minimized when two representatives of the Independence Party of the Foreign Affairs Committee are women. [[The president calls.]] This was just because of the interests and strengths of the members of that body. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u38	Mr. President. I recommend here for a bill of equal status and equal sexual rights. It has been interesting to listen to the above discussion about other matters, since this particular bill was still a matter of interest. It's called a special pet case of what? Central Party senator Karl Hjaltason Hojaltason. The problem with equality may be that they are often viewed as quality projects. Sometimes you, even in the year 2020, hear that this is something that can be stored up until later when all the important things are over. That's why I'm surprised. Councilmen to read this bill in a paper, especially a historical summary on page 24. In spite of all conversations to drive the sexes into equality, 1,915, which accurately describes the amount of time this has taken. For example, in 1911, women received the same right to all offices as men and were entitled to the same amount of pay for such jobs. It was 1911, and now in 2020, we are not at the point where we have reached the full salary equal. It was in 1958 that Iceland validated the same amount of pay given to the International employment agency from 1951. Then Iceland owes itself to ensure that men and women earn equally valuable jobs. It was 1958. Then, in 1961, I was not yet born, nor was I given a special law on married women and men, which was given five years of time to implement the law on pay balances. Women were then to increase their wages over the five years to the same level of men's pay for the same job in general work, factory work, and business and office work. It is a matter of the fact that the professional roads would allow room to conform to new attitudes in women's dress. Despite this long induction period, however, pay balance was not really achieved. In 1963, Iceland approved No. III about discrimination in regard to employment and employment at the Council of the International Labour Organization in 1958. In 1973 a law on the Equal Prize Council was set up in 1973,1976. It did not have an employee or office position, this fine equal advice, and no doubt it was considered priorities at the time, but it confirmed the two principles, the equal pay of men and women for such valuable and comparable jobs as that for employers, it was forbidden to forbid discrimination by sex. Then, at the time of the first general law on male and female equality, the law of the law was taken away in 1976. So, it was 1976, that year I was born. There was also a law on teaching equality in schools, but it took 35 years, or for 2011, to put the term equality into the main textbook. But then it was one of the basics of a primary course, that I know I've been a minister of education at the time. All of this has taken time with all this conversation and the development discussed earlier. I'm not going to continue to follow this story, but it is true that from 1976 onward, the law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men, a significant step has been taken, and indeed, all this time, since 1911. Nevertheless, according to UN, it is as if we are still the nations of the world, not especially Iceland, far from reaching world goals 5, the world's goal that is the world goal that is always about the rights of men and women. Then we will recall what John Stuart Mill said back then, that there were few discriminations that were more entrenched than that of men and women. It seems that as in so many other subjects, Mill had quite a point. The bill suggests that there will be a new total law of equal status and sexual equality. Here at the beginning, it should be noted that the bill is composed in broad consultations with the labour market partners and with various stakeholders and is submitted along with my bill on the political affairs of equal rights. The bill I'm recommending below leads to the order of equal rights administration in the field of this bill. Also, as law on equal treatment regardless of race and ethnic background, No. 85/2018, and even management law, No. 86/2018, cleaning up. The proposals include the work of an equal rights firm and the Justice Committee of Equal Opportunities. This arrangement makes more clear the role of an emissary and the judicial committees of equal rights to the implementation of the three laws. It is time to place new universal laws on equality between the sexes, especially in the light of the trend that has developed in equality since the creation of existing laws in 2008, but it is safe to say that this group of languages has become increasingly important both in the country and in the world. If the bill is approved, the law of equal status and male and female equal rights, no. 10/2008. Mr. President. In the bill it is recently suggested that multiple discrimination be prohibited. This is the case when an individual is discriminated against on the basis of more than one difference factor. Conventional equality is focused on one differential reason at a time to form gender, race, or disability or sexual orientation, and there is a risk that all women's experience can be weakened by one group of women, leading to difficulty in handling multiple differences. Then we can review how different and varied the accounts we heard around # I like the revolution, where to make up stories of disabled women were different from stories of women without disability. The stories of women of foreign background were also different from those of women born and raised here in Iceland. It is proper to respond clearly to such discrimination, using specific guidelines as suggested in the bill. That would include. to improve the protection of women of foreign origin and women with disability. The bill means "message." That, too, Mr. President, ensures that people with neutral registrations of race into their national records are equal and equal to men and women. Thus, all the general regulations of the bill on equal status and the sexual rights of the sex also apply to persons with neutral gender registration. Also regulations against discrimination on grounds of gender. So the bill will support people's right to define themselves, as is the law on sexual autonomy, as well as contribute to a greater sense of public being that the traditional homosexualism is not absolute, since there is a group that does not agree with it. Thus, it is a great act of justice for people with neutral gender registration. It should be noted, however, that the bill also contains a provision based on the fact that at any given time, a number of women and men with whom we have been discussing are similar, with the aim of equalizing the potential and impact of these two groups in the community. An example of this is the law of the bill in which the minimum number of women and men on committees, counsels, and government officials are recommended. The bill seeks to maintain such regulations unchanged, while trying to ensure the status of individuals with neutral registrations of a generation with special requirements. There may be differences in the view that the authority for neutral sex is now three or whether the sex remains two, but at the same time, individuals may choose not to belong to either of them. In any case, it is necessary to assume that there are three groups of people with different gender registrations. In order to ensure this, it's with the term, "genhe·siʹ in the bill" referring to women, men, and people with neutral registrations of gender. To that end, the vow of the law is also made to be a law for equal positions and equal to the rights of the sex but, as it is known, the stated law of the current law on equal status and equal rights of women and men. Mr. President. It is suggested that labour markets and pay equals as in the current law will be divided into more regulations by headings for an explanation. Professional unions and union unions are expected to work hard to balance the position of women and men, taking care to ensure that the legal status of people with neutral sex registration in the labour market and that they are paid equally well, and enjoy the same discretion for the same work as that of equally worthy jobs. The bill contains requirements for job vacancies, training, re-education and continuing education as well as the coordination of family and employment life and the obligation of enterprises and institutions of a set size to maintain an equality plan or integrated equality policy in worker policy, as it has been. There is also a law on sexual violence, sexual harassment, and sexual harassment, as has been done, as well as the prohibition on discrimination in terms of job discrimination and recruitment, as well as information. due to a lawsuit or a correction requirement. The change from current legislation is proposed that the requirements for working in the same job driver's general law on pay equals to the European European standard are no longer required, and changes are proposed to the requirements of the current legislation on equally pay-relieving. Among other things, monitoring roles with the same salary and equally remuneration will be given to an economist, but next year's budget will be expected to be supported by the Agency to meet the tasks entrusted to them in the bill. In fact, I think it's very important that we be more supportive of this one government agency in the field of equality. It has an enormously important role, including with follow-up and follow-up of these laws. More guidance on what is being said is sought, usually on a yearly basis, when assessing the size of a company is falling in terms of a number of employees. Other implementations are expected on a so-called proven route. It allows less companies and institutions to choose whether they will receive equally pay, after the review of the recruiter, and receive a equally pay badge or a equally paid test as an Assumed firm provides the results of certain documents which, in the opinion of the Astronomical Office, demonstrate that there is no gender discrimination in the company or the agency's remuneration. It is suggested that the minister assess the results of the same salary and the equally pay check every three years. Just as a remuneration, or as a result of a equally paid test, should be justified to confirm that a critical point of view is in charge of pay decisions. The induction of the equally paid system according to the equally paid standard or the equally remuneration does not preclude the evaluation of individual factors for pay as well. The certain minimum percentages of women and men in committees, administrations and government agencies are still being recommended, and I turn back to the prime committee that was here for this discussion, which I celebrate and count full reason to be fulfilled. The bill discusses the general prohibition on discrimination, the prohibition on discrimination in terms of goods and services, as have been the provision for education and school work. There is also a ban on discrimination in terms of advertising and bans on rights. The bill suggests reducing the number of members of an equal rights council to ensure efficiency and more specific activity so that six representatives will be appointed instead of eleven. The change is also proposed that according to the order of giving an equalizing campaign every other year from the election year's election to ensure that the Council will be held on a regular basis regardless of the general elections. As has been said, Ministers are expected to propose a judicial resolution to the implementation of the sex - sex policy programme to implement measures aimed at implementing key ministers in this field for performance and administration, depending on events in cooperation with other members. In addition, equalism is still intended to cover and monitor equality in the topic fields of the Ministry and its institutions. The importance of the analysis of gender-specific statistical data is then recommended to be a consistent part of the public economy where appropriate. The report is that public members should seek to distinguish between genders in all statistical development except special reasons, such as personal protection, against it, and it is still recommended by the government to integrate gender and equality principles into the day - to - day work of all advisers. The petition is that if a person in a criminal way violates the laws of the law, he should be subject to physical damage and miscommunication according to the general regulations and in accordance with the requirements for the clearness of penalties, it is suggested that the laws of the law that can be considered specifically in the law of guilt are listed. In view of the trend that has taken place in equality since existing laws were passed, it is suggested to bring expressions of equality to modern prospects and to seek not to use ambiguous language. Finally, the law on rights and duties of the servants of the State is proposed to be in line with the sexal laws and to conform with the above - mentioned bill to a new layer of equal status and sexual rights. Mr. President. As I studied at the beginning of my speech, gender equality is certainly not a pet project, it doesn't belong in the corner when we discuss a more important matter. We're here talking about the basics of our community. This bill, this global review of the law, is intended to work against discrimination and to maintain and ensure equal treatment of people of all genders, as well as to promote the remuneration of the sexes in a country that has not yet been met. I'm not going to spend more time explaining the principles of the bill, because there are other issues on the agenda, including the administration of equal rights. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u39	Mr. President. First, I'm going to celebrate the fact that this subject has come along and, in fact, this series of issues that are on the program here today. The legal environment has certainly failed to follow the recent trend in society. So these are all very timely changes. What I'd like to mention here in my previous answer is a multi-item of discrimination. This equality bill takes a very important step, not just for men and women, but for all genders and other discrimination factors. First of all, I'd like to ask the minister if he needs to recommunicate the discrimination a little bit more because it works a little below. It acts like it's been added to an old bill. It's normal when we're getting out of the old system, but it's missing, I think, to wrap it in better. Second, whether it is not even necessary to talk specifically about certain groups or in some way even dealing with how we reach, e.g. to disabled people or immigrants who may need groups to look directly to them rather than expect them to know and to be able to get their rights. It may be necessary to take the initiative to help people to get what is right. And since we're talking about these specific groups, I would like to ask ourselves, " What advice has been offered to those groups, and especially to those who are disabled, where there is a obligation to communicate with governments over the general obligation of the Mexican government, not to change laws without consulting the people they touch? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who says in his opponent that it's time and I agree completely with that. It was also time to transfer this group to the Ministry of Presidency, I think, to ensure increased integration in the management system. This, of course, shows that each government matters. Hv. A senator in particular asks about the wide variety of discrimination, and it may be necessary to improve its involvement in the text in general. It's a novelty, like a dog. A senator, of course, is referring to the discussion that arose when the bill was prepared, which is the same discussion that has been conducted in many other parts of the world over how far it should take place in the expansion of the global equality concept, i.e. how much to expand it. My conclusion was that, rather than expand it in a way that we were actually only with one equal law, it would be necessary to continue to have specific legislation on the equal status of the sex and then also the two law columns I mentioned earlier on equal management of a labour market. I think you're right. I believe the most conclusive reason not to go all the way in this case is that we still have a long way to reach full equality between the sexes and that there is a need for special legislation on this subject. [[Up front.]] Should this be more integrated? I say, you may well be right. The reason why this is not being done is the new thought that we are entering the bill. In terms of consultation with the disabled, it is actually a matter of who came to the formal consultation process by the Ministry and then only the traditional way through the Board of Justice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u41	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer, and I would like to have my second answer just to discuss this particular dilation of the gender concept that we're working on here, which leads to, in fact, this. ... oftheSexualSystems we recently agreed on. Naturally, this bill is a bit rich in double-minded. It's just the structure of power that has been built up in the community over the centuries and we're reacting to it. So that context is useful in understanding the social picture we are trying to change. However, I feel that, because we're dealing with a new reality, as if a neutral sex registration was added almost as afterwards. I would especially like to mention 28. g., of participation in committees, counsels and governments of the government, where the order of persons with gender-involved registration comes as the last paragraph and doesn't fully fit into the article. Would it not have had to write this article from the foundation so that it would reach all gender? So it struck me a little bit when I read a report that there may be a difference of opinion as to whether the authority to neutral sexual records means that there are now three sexes or whether they remain two. As far as I can remember, we've taken care of this by the laws on sexual autonomy. It says in a report, from the same highest. Ministers, that in the old environment, only two have been suggested, but it's certainly far away. Those were the words of the prime minister at that time, and I would like to see the committees grapple with this matter, so it reflected them more than that men and women are somehow maintenance of the basic law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u42	Mr. President. First of all, communicate with those who are disabled. I just wanted to reiterate here that it was specifically requested representatives from their stakeholders at the beginning of the law that had a mental conference on the content of the law. However, they sent in specific references in their consultations. For gender-related registration, the condition may be affected. A senator has some feeling about this. Nevertheless, this was accomplished entirely while writing the bill. In October 2019, I appointed groups who worked in that assembly, if I recall correctly. Since the year 2019, the Law was under all conditions. As regards the difference of viewpoint, this actually testifies to a discussion that has been on this subject. What is presented in a paper does not necessarily reflect my opinion on the subject. And I don't think that anyone in this room is being paid by overlooking the discussion that has been involved in these matters. We have provided advice to our most skilled experts when it comes to the affairs of those who choose sexless registration. It's really just something people have to talk about. I don't think anyone is willing by trying to hide that there may be some difference of opinion. That is why it is presented in a paper, even though it is not the case with me. I think that's exactly what's important. This is being discussed by the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u43	A respectable president. We're here on the administration of equality, and I agree with most of the information that comes out there. This is the best part, but we can't somehow get our hands around... Although we are on our way only with equality, we do not achieve equal wages for women and men. It seems like it's a little hard to get. And then there's the other thing, which is kind of the saddest in all of this, i.e. The difference between those who suffer from disability. That's where we can, for example. View the access of disabled persons to public employment, as you did at the time when many people in wheelchairs were laid off at the bus when changes were made and changes were possible for women. So this discrimination seems to still be in us, and it is remarkable that not long ago it was under way. And then there is something else that we may never have talked about properly, i.e. The discrimination of the retired women and men. The fact is, women have far worse pensions than men, and it's really incomprehensible that they haven't long been able to level there, at least Partially, e.g. A waiting list, which often puts women in a very difficult position when the spouse falls away. At that time, they are often very financially poor. The question is, How can we take that into account as well in these equality issues? What's the big deal? Is it possible for a president to see that such a situation exists?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for bringing this up. You see, discrimination is widespread. What was discussed earlier in terms of the wide variety of discrimination, age and sex, or disability and gender, or other factors that are still increasing. And there are many of them. We can talk about the indiscrimination of access, but clearly. A member of this body makes it a subject of discrimination in the social security system, especially in older women who do not have full rights in the social security system. That is exactly what we were coming to the top of our bill. Department of Social Services asked for additional social support for the elderly. As a result of reviewing and identifying who were bowing down in that group, the picture of individuals who were not fully entitled to the social security system, either because there were people of foreign descent or women who had not been in the workforce, was drawn. This action was designed to meet that group. But I think that when we look, for example. As people get older, we will see that those who have had a higher salary and as a result have put more money into the pension system have a better place in later years. Then, the remuneration of the sex sex is made clear. So it's clear that while we don't correct this job discrimination, they'll go up the stairs until people get older and start enjoying money from a pension fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. I completely agree with her that this needs to be handled. In itself, the rights must be matched to a relapse, e.g. A husband from them will hold back his surviving wife the rights that her spouse had so that it would not be inclined. They have probably been in agreement and have lived together for a long time, so this should not be a big problem. But if we think about equality, because now we have a relatively large amount of -- there are strange male and female classes. We know, for example. with a teacher that much of the male class used to be here. Now, for the most part, it is a women's class. Just as these changes have been made, the status of boys in school, unfortunately, the numbers about boys have become terrible at the university. The question is, Is it the sex palace that chose it or what? We need to deal with this, and especially with the women class. Since women are more of a class, they usually pay. It's some kind of ill that I don't understand why they put on a year after year. I'm asking if the highest. A minister sees a solution because, as she said, it has been over for a long time, trying to get a few steps ahead of this. How long will we take these steps into the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u46	Mr. President. Only once again to a greater degree of discrimination. Senators are calling here. As I mentioned earlier, it is a significant change that we take into account more factors than gender, i.e. that we also look to another discrimination, direct or possible impact factor on discrimination. By changing the law so that we have a special law on the administrations, which will take into account different discrimination factors, we are actually lifting them up. It is something that matters to women with disability or women of foreign origin, and this is what we have changed the administration and that makes it a matter of non - sex factors. But only in terms of that. A senator came to the second time, with regard to the sex market. Work is now being carried out in agreement with the labour market body based on a declaration published in relation to collective agreements obtained at the BSRB earlier this year for a special examination not only of the genders but also of the sex market. He's very sexual in Iceland. We are actually watching a subject that is reaching out to the school system, for it is also related to a sexual choice of study. I'm not going to promise that I'm coming here with a solution, but this group is supposed to make adjustments so that we can take more steps than a chicken step in equalizing the ideals of the sexes. Then, on the other hand, we need to focus on the pay and on this huge exchange of genders at work. I am very optimistic that the action that will be there will be progress, and perhaps more rapid progress in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u47	Mr. President. This is directly related to the concluding words of my final talk. Here I recommend a bill for the legislation on the rights of equality, and present it along with the bill which I recommended earlier on equal positions and the equal rights of the sexes. This bill compares its subject to II. the section of the current equality layer, which is the head of the Management Board. It is suggested that this value for the organization of the administration proposed to set the value of equality and that, under these administrations, the total law I gave earlier and then also the law on equal treatment regardless of race or nationality, No. 85/2018, and even management law, No. 86/2018. With the arrival of the above laws from 2018 on equal treatment in the labour market and the correction of equal treatments regardless of race and ethnic background, an equal rights firm and the judicial committees of equal rights were assigned to handle equality in a wider sense than previously practiced here. Of course, it has to do with a discussion that has been conducted in many of our neighboring countries on the dilation of the ideal and how far we should go in that expansion. As I mentioned earlier, it was my conclusion that it was important to have laws on gender equal care, and it was very detailed in various other aspects of these two layers; however, it is being worked by means of a multi-communication in the bill on equivalent sex status. After the General Assembly agreed to these laws from 2018 on this law, the Equal Court and the Court of Equal Opportunities were assigned to deal with gender equality and equal treatment regardless of race or nationality within and out of work markets, as well as the principle of equal treatment of work markets, regardless of religion, principles of life, disability, lack of ability to work, age, sexual orientation, gender characteristics, or gender language. At the same time, the minister of equality was entrusted with a government in the fields of equality, which referred to the principle of equal treatment in a larger sense, as shown above. No changes are made to that arrangement in the bill. However, the change is proposed to address the order of the administrations in one law rather than within the law on sexual equality. This is a normal continuation of the above changes, including to ensure full perspective, enhance clarity and improve the implementation of the law. A respectable president. Then I'll take a closer look at the regulations of this bill. As previously assumed, the Minister of Equal Opportunities will administer the administration of these laws unless there is specifically mentioned and an assice to be referred to earlier will continue to be a special institution under the administration of the Minister of Equal Opportunities and to care for government in the area of the above laws. The change from the current law is proposed that the rights of an EL office be divided into more regulations. The Agency's monitoring programme for the implementation of the law has been made clearer by proposals in the bill, including with daily stress in more specific situations. In fact, even rights firms were given permission for daily stress in certain cases in current equality laws, which were added by law no. 56/2017, about a equally paid witness. Therefore, according to the way a violation is involved, more than one date will be considered in the current law. Is it possible to cause a misunderstanding, and it is suggested that the above articles become a special law and receive the headline Dagekt. Mr. President. It is assumed that those who claim to be violated on the basis of the above laws of equality will continue to be allowed to sue for an independent NTSB, the Advisory Committee of Equal Opportunities. In view of the fact that the Court's Committee of Equal Opportunities is not merely a discriminatory decision on the basis of sex, it is good to add to the demand for expertise within the judicial committee on equality. So it's suggested in the bill that at least two committees, including presidents, should have expertise in the field of equality. Furthermore, representatives of the NTSB are suggested not to be appointed to the same time, so that it can be ensured as much as possible that certain knowledge will always be available to the appointed members of the Commission, even if there is a switch to representatives. It is suggested in the bill that the NTSB of Equal Opportunities will be given clear authority to direct the instructions for the guilty to take steps to correct matters when appropriate. The decisions continue to involve binding conclusions for the participants on whether or not the laws under the NTSB have been broken but are suggested to be clearly added that when appropriate, the Commission can direct the instructions to the guilty to take appropriate measures to correct matters so as not to be able to make a decision with complete inactivity. Then an equal court will be better able to fulfill its role according to the current law, which is to comply with the rulings of the Commission, at the end of the day. While the Court's decision in favor of the Court's Court of Equal Opportunities is still expected to be in favor of the defendant, the evidence officer refused to accept it and appeal to an invalid court hearing for the decision, the prosecution receives a legal fee from the state's budget for the district, national rights and the Supreme Court, as appropriate. It is suggested recently that at such a lawsuit, the Prosecutor Committee of Equal Opportunities should also be directed to defend the case. On the basis of this, no one knows better the basis of the decision made by the Committee than by the Committee itself and the right to make a case and a legal basis for the decision to be legal and correct rather than a charger alone as the present order of the matter is handled. It should be noted that, on the other hand, in such judicial cases, there is still an opportunity for a person to come to all his views on the matter, as he is also a guardian of the case. I call attention to the fact that this arrangement, if it is legal, is comparable to what is normally used to form in Denmark, where a judicial committee is also a part of a judicial case, is involved. Then it is suggested that if the Court's Committee of Equal Opportunities has a case in mind regarding recruitment, sentence or a job order, she can obtain more information about the case from the person to whom the job was entrusted, it is considered to be a reason to inform the matter sufficiently in accordance with administrative legislation. It has been discussed, but not entirely, both in the courts and in the opinions of an agent of the Generals, and I believe that this is the way that the warrant meets the indications given by the agent. This too has been discussed in the courts and, as I say, not exactly a simple result in these matters. The bill stipulates the obligation of the Commission of Equal Opportunities to publish its decision, according to current laws on equal status and male and female rights. It is suggested that there be a requirement added to the committee's obligation to report their jobs to a minister, key findings and guidelines that would result from its decisions, which would increase transparency and make it easier for people to observe the implementation and interpretation of the laws under the judicial committee of equal rights. Mr. President. Ministers are expected to submit a report on the status and development of equality, but this change is proposed to enable a minister to do so even during an elected period, not at a two - year equal assembly, which will be held at intervals of two years, and in the same way. the evaluation of the status and effectiveness of projects in the current Convention Recontraction of a sex-separation programme. The change is proposed that the equality programme of rural society, which includes gender equality only, will now be a plan to be careful that more causes of discrimination than gender, i.e. Also, race, disability, sexual orientation, and so on. No longer will the set-up of a special County Equal Opportunity Committee, but instead of the fact that the local government is covering a community council or another member of the community with equal rights in the community and with the support of staff in preparing and implementing a plan. Finally, the necessary changes to the work market equal treatment laws and balance treatment regardless of race and nationality, however, are proposed to ensure harmonization between the laws and the bill, as well as to the bill to a new layer of equal status and sexual rights. Mr. President. If the bill is legalized in the current picture, there is no reason to believe that this will directly affect the spending of a state fund beyond that resulting from the implementation of current laws on equal status and equal rights for women and men, to correct equal treatment in the labour market, and to correct equal treatment regardless of race and ethnic background. The plan is to promote the more powerful administration of the jury and to build a greater knowledge of equality within the administration. Then, as noted above, this strength is expected to lead to an increase in justice protection for people who feel that they are discriminated against on the basis of sex, race, ethnic background, religion, biology, age, disability, impaired working ability, sexual orientation, gender characteristics, or gender, thereby increasing social equality. Mr. President. I have now explained the basic principles of the bill and suggest that it be referred after this discussion. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u48	V.E.G. President. There are two things I would like to mention, on the one hand, I would like to take advantage of the fact that I believe that in the Committee, only the arrangements for handling the findings of the Commission of Equal Opportunities, i.e. what will be considered in the courts and in the like. I think that experience has shown that there is a need to change present standards. But I want to keep it in place that I'm not quite sure of the way that lies in the bill about it. But enough, it will be the task of the Committee to discuss it only from general viewpoints on judicial and judicial hearings. But the other thing I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister on comments that have been reported by the General's agent on the case and its findings. I have come to remember that in the summer, when the bill was on a consultationbar, a comment was made by the Allied agent at the bill, including. based on or based on the authority's comment that in some cases the DA's office was out of its working area in connection with evaluating, independent assessments, on the qualifications of candidates for jobs, that would have actually gone outside its field of equality laws, would not have considered matters solely based on the views of equality, but would have been introduced into a much more general political opinion of the legitimate decision of the employment council and the main factors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. ... fora senator. I'd like to review the judgments that have been passed on by the Commission of Equal Opportunities and that, if only clearly, the Court of Equal Opportunities does not have the authority to correct counsel, sentence, or order that the professional has decided on or acted on. The Supreme Court's decision can be reviewed since 2017, where it was found that it did not affect the value of the Court's decision of Equal Opportunities that the agent had previously granted the opinion that it was important to give to the person who is able to perform the task. The Supreme Court's decision was that this would not have been necessary, since the committee had no authority in either case to address the counsel that the hosts would have made and acted on. However, it is up to the opinions of an agent that the NTSB is authorized to consult the person who receives the job, despite the fact that there is no change in the fact that the NTSB does not have a chance to settle a hearing, just to make it clear. Hv. So a senator asks if the Commission should go into the process of assessment. I just think that's a good thing. The General Information and Education Committee for their review of the bill. On the other hand, the board of equal rights has noted that most women and men are not divided by proponents: well, he was hired because he was a caller - but rather by an underlying factor in the hosts' assessment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u50	Mr. President. It's true, it's rarely that this is so crystal clear and nature of a case that, of course, all the conditions that are fundamental to the decision of the hosts are to be considered, or what we call a recruiter. Of course, it is important to determine whether all the underlying factors are grammatic and, in any way, relevant to the field of equality. However, there may be a number of other estimating provisions that can be effective in recruiting when we weigh specific items together, such as study or professional experience, whether to weigh the weight, study, or experience, for example. It may contain a variety of estimating provisions, what should be said, which are not relevant to the candidate's sex but can still be controversial. But anyway, my purpose in coming up here was to draw attention first to the fact that these were the points that we needed to go over to the Committee's work, and thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. But we will have to discuss these factors and these implementations a bit on the committee, especially in view of the fact that the factors I have been taking over here have been controversial and have been handled both in court and in the opinion of an agent in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. I wonder what. paritaprevir The Birgir son of an Ármannsson felt that the prime minister was too formal when she spoke about the catering authorities, which would be a turning point if that was not so. A senator believes that he is too far gone in formal language. But what I'd like to say is that it's, of course, very well discussed in the report of the previous bill, where it was written in the 19th chapter. will be discussed on grounds of gender when it comes to recruitment and working. It presents the guidelines and the assessment protocols, i.e. that if a person claims to be a offender, the facts or other evidence must be submitted and information that will lead to direct or indirect discrimination on the basis of gender. If a accuser assumes that such discrimination is likely to shift the burden of evidence to the employer or to the host, if we are very formal, that must be shown that reasons other than sex have been fundamental to his decision. At this, the agent has made the statement that going into the process from A to Z is not a NTS. But you may ask, as I mentioned earlier, for there is rarely such discrimination on the surface so thoroughly that it simply stands in support. And then there may be a problem with equal rights, for how should it be judged that some nonverbal circumstances have been fundamental if not included in the recruitment process? In my opinion, though, there is considerable evidence there, what can we say, legal differences between key experts in this field, and I think it's positive that the committee is well versed in that matter. This bill aims for improvement without necessarily making sure that we have all the final answers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u52	Mr. President. I should have been allowed to discuss these matters together because they're all close to me, but I didn't want them. So this is the first of three primarys, very simple, but is a 20 - year - old case of a change in sexual autonomy law. The bill is employed in cooperation with the Ministry of Presidency and a group of staff who were appointed according to an preliminary II law on sexual autonomy, No. 80/209. The provision included the work group. ... to reevaluate the law's date to be reduced due to the right to change the registration of gender and to cooperate with the Children's Institute for Children's Health, Children's Agent, and a gay interest group. This was the initiative of more of the General and Education Committee. When she finished her discussion on the sex - self - discipline law, the change in the bill in the treatment was made that age criteria were increased from 15 years to 18 years. The leading section of the Committee discussed the change, pointing out that it is important to work better, to look at it closely, and to have complete consultation with all parties. This group was active from the fall of 2019 until August 2020. He returned a report in September published on the Presidency Web site, which is suggested as a review of the original provision, i.e. that the court will live at age 15 instead of at 18 to change the official registry of gender and at the same time name. Thus, any person who has reached that age has the right to convert his registration into a gender registry, while for children less than 15 years it is expected that they will be able to change the official registration of their generation by means of their guardians. The assessment, which was naturally determined to provide time for consideration, for which age should be binding the rights of children to change the registry of gender, especially on the rights of children and on the rights of children to influence decisions relating to their own lives. When considering this, it is important to apply the principle of child - law that what is best for a child should always be put first in making decisions on the matter, according to the rules of a child's law, No. 76/2003. Furthermore, it is necessary to keep in mind that sexual awareness is part of a person's self - image and is protected by the rights of human rights that depend on privacy. Mr. President. Youths who experience sex abuse are a very sensitive group. The above report refers to foreign studies showing that many of them are subject to physical and mental harassment and discrimination. This can result in in insecurity, social isolation, distress, and mental problems, with a higher frequency of depression, anxiety, anxiety, anxiety, self - injury, and suicide than in other groups of adolescents. Self - worth is vital to our spiritual health and how we fit into our society. All youths are important that they be listened and that their feelings and feelings are respected and mattered. This is of utmost importance to young people. Juridiskt's Swedish study of 2014 shows that most researchers agree that it has a major impact on the mental health of people to the degree to which they are respected, whether they can express it in normal social situations, and whether they have the support of the next person. The support of both family and community is essential for youths to develop their senses without being subjected to prejudice, harassment, and excommunication. It's really about how this group of youths can adapt to society and experience that their sexual sense is as important as that of other youths who do not have such feelings. Mr. President. I mentioned earlier that more of the General and Education Committee should have given this clear opinion. This is not unnatural in view of the fact that, according to legal requirements, individuals under law become 18 years old. Parents of a child or those who replace their parents with legal advice until the age of 18 called them legal guardians. Preservation is in accordance with the rules of child - welfare laws and child - protection laws. Thus, a child enjoys custody of parents or guardians until the age of 18. " God Is With All Things, " No. 76/2003, is a child's rights, and there the child has the right to live, develop, and enjoy protection, care, and other rights according to age and development, and without any discrimination. Any form of violence or other disrespectful behavior is not permitted to be used by a child. It also provides the principle that what is best for a child should always take priority when making decisions on its issues, and a child has the right to express his views in all matters of concern and should take into account their opinion according to age and development. Furthermore, parents should consult their child before deciding what to do as the child's age and development allow. The child's attitude should be increased as he grows older and matures. The above provisions are Article 1. Child law reflects some of the principles of the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which was legalized here by law No. 19/2013. A guardian who is obliged to consult his child on decisions that concern his or her life with the child's right to influence and express himself on such decisions. This means that the custody and decision - making authority of the superintendent are decreasing with age and growth in children. The obligation of guardians and others who make decisions about the interests and lives of children to do what is best for a child requires listening to children's opinions and experiences. When considering the implications of children's views, their age and development and whether they are aware of the consequences of the decision to make should be considered. Mr. President. The results of the group of work that worked on the case were that adolescents at 15 years of age have enough maturity to make their own decision in changing the registration of their generation and recognize the consequences of that decision. The result is based on an overall assessment of the data and information collected by the group, as well as consultation. In this regard, the work force stresses that sexual awareness is the personal experience of an individual and that it is very difficult to prove whether the child's sexual abuse is the right thing to do. However, the work group refers to the reversible and simple process of making the decision but also points to the importance of making it easy for children to come back to the point where they find that they belong, despite all the sex assigned to them at birth. By allowing youths from the age of 15 to decide for themselves which of them should be written to have confidence in the community and to accept their own experiences. This may have a profound impact on the feelings of youths who suffer from sexual abuse and may also give them the opportunity to further check their sexual senses before any further treatment takes place. Does the task force believe that the importance of the change in sex registration is justified in limiting the custody of parents or guardians to this extent? The service group describes in their report an understanding of the status of children with serious psychiatric disorders and a multiplicity problem but considers that the potential risk to these children will be weighed in view of the benefits that come from extending the right passage of children and adolescents to make their own decision on the change in gender. The results of the task force are that the consequence of the reduction in age range was not conclusively so serious for these children that it is properly eliminated. Based on the objective of the work group, the reduction in the age set means a clear correction for the majority of adolescents. The bill is based on the results and proposals of the group. It will be preferable that individuals will be able to gain the right to change their sex registrations and names at 15 years of age, while most youths start high school at this age. Thus, it is a turning point in youth's life, and it is important to be able to start a new school with the right registration of sex and a name that conforms to the person's sexual sense. In this way, it is interesting to consider that there are various rights and responsibilities associated with 15 - year - olds, e.g. is a child who is an independent child at the age of 15. Then at 15 years of age, a child is convicted, as well as a minimum of 15 years of sexual age. Furthermore, at the age of 15, children receive increased rights according to traffic laws. Madam President. The bill also suggests limitations of the 7th paragraph. the legislation on sexual autonomy, which includes the change in the registry of gender and concomitant name change only allowed once, unless there are special reasons for it, does not apply to individuals less than 18 years of age. Each person's senses are shaped into adulthood. Some children have lived in corrected sex since their early years, but others do not experience homosexual acts until they are young and are seeking and unsure about their sex. Thus, it is not likely that some individuals will want to reevaluate themselves if they learn that their sexual senses are consistent with all the sexes assigned to them at birth. It is important that legislation takes this into account and that young people in this situation do not have unnecessary obstacles. It is recommended that a new paragraph of the above - mentioned law on sexual autonomy should be added as it is recommended that individuals under 18 years of age be excluded from the limitations of 1 mg. The article. In addition to these changes, changes in human names are proposed to maintain harmony between them and the rules of the bill. The bill has to do with the implementation of information in a national registry, but it cannot be seen as having a negative or burdensome effect on administrative matters. It is possible that applications for the change in registered sex and its concomitant name will increase, but the impact on national activities may be negligible. Individuals themselves pay for changed sex registrations and changes in their names as well as new IDs. So it cannot be seen that the bill will have a negative impact on the financial resources of the state. Madam President. The approval of the bill would improve youths who experience sexual abuse. It has been shown through research that it makes a difference in the emotional and emotional health of youths that their self - image is recognized by people and friends and society everywhere, and so they come to understanding in their social dealings with others. The importance that transadolescents can express their sexual senses in normal social situations has a major impact on their well - being. One of these conditions is that society recognizes their right to make its own gender. If the bill is legal, it should help to improve the feelings of teenagers in Iceland. President. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The General and Education Committee following the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u53	Madam President. Now it's time for the number two bill that is linked to the sexual autonomy law, about the changed sex registration. This bill was employed in cooperation with the Ministry of Presidency and a group appointed under the aforementioned committee, even the Second Amendment Act on Sexual Self - Control. The provision included the work force's being assigned to discuss and make suggestions on how to make adjustments in other laws needed to ensure the rights of people and those of the Intersex people. This group was represented by the Ministry of Justice, Department of Social Affairs, Department of Health, and Department of Transport and Division. The head of the group was appointed by the prime minister, and the director of the Ministry was a member of the group. The task force was appointed to ensure good advice on the most extensive legal adjustments and to consult with other agencies as appropriate, including those without special representatives in this group, such as the Ministry of Education and Culture and Economic Affairs. The group also had a meeting with representatives from the Conspiracy of '78 and Trans Iceland. The bill is based on the proposals of a group of workers published in a report to me in September of the past, published on the Ministry of Presidency. V.E.G. President. The changes required to be made on the law because of an approved sex-adversity law fall to the main policy of two categories. On one hand, these are changes due to the sexual autonomy laws that allow individuals to have a neutral sex registration. The source makes it possible that in legal requirements involving gender (man, woman) a group that prefers to have a neutral sex registration, it must also be assumed. However, changes in various laws must be considered in order to ensure the parenthood status of a person and individuals with neutral gender registration. Icelandic law has not made it a requirement for the conversion of people to their sex record that the person is having a sterilization procedure. Thus, it is possible that a person who is separated could walk with and raise a child and that a transwoman could have a baby. These possibilities were in place for the sentence on sexual autonomy, but the adjustment of the law has not been made to reconcile them with these realities. Many Icelandic laws contain laws that involve gender. The need to change all of these requirements is not considered necessary; some of them can be assumed to be at least It would be used in a clear explanation, or according to legal cases, of individuals with neutral gender registration. In particular, on the basis of the bill it has been emphasised on regulations that require individual rights and modalities in relation to gender status. Two basic methods of implementing the needed legal adjustments are considered, and this is, of course, an assessment. On the one hand, laws can be changed so that they will have nothing to do with gender. However, it is possible to set a rules for individuals who have changed their gender record. This bill uses both methods, depending on the content and structure of the rules and the style of the laws that discuss which is more appropriate in each case. A respectable president. I'd like to mention that the Minister of Justice will provide a bill for a legal adjustment in child law which contains suggestions that require changes needed to ensure the status of parents and people with neutral genders. The changes are extensive, and they are presented in a special bill that is expected for the council during this month. One of the proposed changes is to be added to the laws that recommend the provision of other laws dealing with a mother, pregnant woman, a recently pregnant woman, and a breast-feeding woman also includes a man and a person with neutral sex registration in the same position. A similar reference to a father will also be made to indicate that he also applies to a person who has changed his or her gender and who is considered to be the parent of a child, other than the one who bore it. This helps to reduce the extent of the adjustment. For example, there must be no need to make any special changes in the terms of child protection laws, counseling and training about sex and having children, pregnancy break laws, social security laws, birth and parental law, and health insurance laws. The changes suggested in the bill involve various laws. First of all, there are judicial decisions involving pregnancy and the birth of a child, especially financial assistance to parents. Second, there are legislation on assisted reproduction techniques and third measures related to gender equality. Fourth, the bill contains suggestions for changing the specific requirements of the general penal code. Here are key groups of substances. The bill suggests a change in certain laws on social assistance involved in mother's pay and father's salary. It is expected that the article will be added to a new paragraph that recommends that this article's requirements should also be changed for parents who have a neutral sex registry. Second, it is a law on assisted reproduction techniques and the use of human game cells and embryos for stem cell studies. The proposed changes to ART laws are primarily related to extending the range of values of the law so that they can also extend to persons who have changed their gender registry, whether to persons undergoing assisted reproduction techniques or to their partners. In addition, an additional directive is given to a specific article of the law that commands that a couple be married or registered together be allowed to give each other sex cells. It will be an example in this country that women who are married or registered living with each other have given each other to their egg cells during assisted reproduction techniques, i.e. One woman has had a baby conceived in assisted reproduction techniques, where her wife's egg cell has been fertilized. There is a reason for clearly establishing this authority. It will also be used by men who take steps to store their egg cells before having a sexual correction procedure that impairs their fertility and allows them to be given to their partners who walk along and give birth to their baby. Third, there are laws that depend on the equality of the sexes that we have been discussing here earlier today. I'm not going to have many words about it, but I'd like to say that it has been consistent with the proposals to make adjustments in terms of equality with these bills, and I'd like to reiterate what I earlier to see that there are various laws on gender equality aimed at balance the potential and impact of men and women in society and their potentials, based on the number of individuals of each generation at any given time being similar. I can mention, for example, a law we were discussing here about the minimum proportion of men and women on committees, advice, and governments. That policy, then, is reserved to preserve such requirements but endeavor to ensure the status of individuals with neutral sex registrations with special requirements. Then I'd also like to mention the law on maternity and parentorof which states that the law is intended to enable both women and men to coordinate family and professional life. It is suggested that, instead of the words, both women and men come: parents. In this context, I also want to mention laws on basic schools and laws on the media. I mentioned the penalty here, but the changes in general penalties laid particularly on the two chapters of the law. It's on the one side of XI. The section on incest, i.e. the law on polygamy and polygamy, and the false information about the birth or throat of a child, and the XXIII. A section of killing and injury, particularly of a mother's offense against the child she gives birth to or to the fetus she carries and of the procedure for mutilation of the female genitals. In many cases it can be assumed that 1 mg could be used. 1st par. a general penalties, but because of the requirement of the clearness of penalties, it is proper to change the laws of the law and the specific requirements of a mother and a pregnant woman. In most cases, the wording of the laws is changed to make them genderless, but in some cases it is suggested that a specific provision be added to the points discussed. XXIII. the section of the general penal code is a law about when a mother kills her child in birth, leaves her helpless after birth, or kills her fetus. Change in these terms, however, should take into account the changed definition of the term "mother " in the aforementioned bill for the adjustment of child law that I mentioned earlier, and because individuals with male or neutral sex registration can give birth to a child and become guilty of the violations of the law. Here is where the law needs to be thought to be sexless. It is suggested that the word a person is used to describe a potential doer. The Word A person - here comes a significant grammar lesson in this fine speech - is not sexizing, and its root points to the species. The term is a woman's word, and it applies well, as it can continue to be used by its first name in the rules. This is where lawyers save a few steps. Madam President. There's a lot of sex in my lectures about a president, and I'm asking for credit. The influence of the bill is primarily in that by law some legal rights of sexless registrations and by transtransmissions, including the U.S.A. is contraindicated in children. The effect of the bill, therefore, is primarily on legal reforms for this group of people in which the sex registration of the group is fully recognized and equally protected by law. If the bill remains unchanged in the law, it is not expected to have a financial impact on a wealth of money. I expect that, because this, of course, is a considerable change, of course. The General and Education Committee will review this case in detail and there may be some use of words to raise questions. The more discussions the bill offers, the better. After 1st. I suggest that the case be referred to. A top-of-the-art Board that'll look after these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u54	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in sexual autonomy law, the third in a row, about atypical sexual traits. This bill, like the first, worked at the Ministry of Presidency and was based on the proposals of a team working under provision for temporary II, not I, in the sexual autonomy law. According to this, a minister was assigned to appoint a group of personnel involved in the affairs of children born with non-typical sexual traits, including health care, and to make recommendations for improvement. In addition, the group would write a bill to correct a change in sexual autonomy law that would include addition of laws involving changes in the sexual characteristics of children born with a nontypical sexual traits. This is a sensitive subject, and it was decided from the beginning that the members of the group represented those who have fought very hard for the rights of this group and the representatives of the health groups who have worked with this group. In the staff, there was a child surgeon, a child's surgeon, a child psychologist, representing Intersex Iceland, representing the Associations '78, a sexist, a ethic, and two lawyers, one with expertise in child rights than the other in human rights. The head of the group was appointed as minister. With the group, the Ministry of Presidency employed an expert. We believe that this combination has ensured the need for the use of specialists and representative stakeholders to work on the modification of the sexual characteristics of children born with atypical sexual traits as well as the making of extensive consultations. The bill is based on these suggestions in a report published to me in September, published on the Presidency Department's Web. Madam President. Part of those with atypical sex characteristics defines themselves as an intersex, by permission of a president, which is sometimes explained to cover a wide range of inborn physical symptoms, which exist between standard male and female concepts. Intersex subjects are born with symptoms that are not entirely male or female, are a combination of male and female, or neither male or female. Intersex people are born with atypical sex traits that may appear in chromosomes, hormones, genitals, and etc. The typical sex traits can be obvious, and they can be recognized at birth, or they can be hidden, and they do not appear until later in life. These typical sexual traits of the Intersex population do not fully fit the medical standards for males and females. There are very different ways in which the Intersex people experience their gender and their relationship to the traditional dual sex definitions of gender. Some are male, others are female, others are neither male nor female, and are free or sexually active. This relationship with gender definition should be required to avoid sexual orientation. In a general consideration of the bill, the term "typical sexual traits " will be applied to those with non - sexuality or intersex characteristics as appropriate, but in a discussion of the subject the bill will be used to identify the term atypical sexual traits. Madam President. In recent years various international and human rights agencies have encouraged countries to establish laws or forbid unnecessary treatments on individuals with atypical gender characteristics to form irreversible surgery and sterilization without an informed consent. A number of international institutions have noted that in many parts of the world it is common to perform medical treatments in order to bring children's sexual traits back to what society considers typical of either man or woman. Such medical treatments are often carried out without the child's informed consent, and often without medical grounds requiring prejudice, standards, etc. Any unnecessary medical treatment without informed consent includes violations of the rights of the child and can result in very negative results. Among the human rights rules that have been cited are the prohibitions on inhuman treatment, the right to physical immunity, the right to health/health care, the right of children, and the prohibition against discrimination. Such rights are protected in our constitutions and in many international agreements made by Iceland, both legal, in particular the European Convention of Human Rights, and in the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, and inexorably, to form an international civil and political agreement, an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights, on the United Nations and on the European Council on the ban on Europe's torture and social agreements. Further interpretation of human rights commitments includes To find such principles as Yékaarta, plus 10 put together in 2006, updated 2017 of an international human rights specialist. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that no one should be exposed to irreversible medical treatments that alter gender symptoms without informed consent unless necessary to prevent immediate and severe damage. As a result, the duties of countries are outlined, including to ensure that legislation protects children from changes in sexual characteristics without consent, working against prejudice and surrogate ideas, and ensuring that the idea of a child's best surely is not abused to justify measures that violate the right of children to physical immunity. In 2017, the Council of Europe adopted a resolution of No. 2001/191, about the human rights of intersex people. In conclusion, Member States of the European Council are encouraged to forbid unnecessary, legalistic measures - I apologize for these smooth, ordinary measures or how we can put this into practice on good Icelandic and other treatments carried out in an intersex child without their consent. In addition, Member States are encouraged to ensure that all treatments intended to alter the symptoms of the child's gender, including gonads, genitals, or internal organs, will be postponed until the child is able to participate in treatment decisions unless the child is at risk. The European Parliament also agreed on a resolution on the rights of the Intersex people on February 14, 2019, where normaliser - here it comes again and I turn to you. Councilmen, whether they think of anything, but we also discuss this on the Council Committee - operations were condemned and Member States were encouraged to forbid such measures, such as legislation in Malta and Portugal. The rights of intersex people have also been discussed in the UN institutions. The Committee for torture acts on the basis of the United Nations Convention on torture and other cruel, inhuman, or disrespectful treatment or punishment. The Committee has discussed the rights of the Intersex people over the years in comments on the reports of the Member States of the Convention. The Committee has expressed concern over unnecessary and irreversible surgery aimed at determining a child's sex without its informed consent and called upon Member States to agree with relevant legal and administrative measures to protect the physical immunity of intersex people. The United Nations Committee on Economic, Social, and cultural rights has also taken a firm stand against unnecessary surgery on the sexual characteristics of children born with atypical sexual traits until they can grant informed consent. Similar rights are reported in the children's contracts and have the United Nations Child - Court Committee and Women's Courtal Committee also encouraged Member States in their comments to ensure that children with atypical sexual traits do not have to endure unnecessary treatments or surgery. The same view is expressed in the joint declaration of various U.S. experts and regional human rights institutions in 2016, which include: that a state must be, out of urgent need, forbidding nonessential medical action and treatment of Intersex children, as well as of the 2019 United Nations Human Rights Commissioner for Human Rights. Madam President. As you can hear, it has been a great international discussion, and this bill aims to secure the rights of children and protect their physical immunity. The bill examines the main reasons and the rules for changes in the sexual characteristics of children born with a non-typical sex disorder. In this way, it is tried to prevent children with atypical sex traits from becoming subject to unnecessary treatments for their gender characteristics without informed consent. The bill suggests that sexual autonomy laws add new laws to the changes in the sexual traits of children born with an atypical sexual traits. The principle suggests that lasting changes in the sexual characteristics of a child less than 16 years old born with atypical sexual traits should be performed only according to the child's will. However, if a child because of his or her age is unable to agree with it or because of others unable to indicate his will, it should be permitted to change the symptoms of his gender permanently if medical causes require it and then only after a careful assessment of the need for change and its consequences to a shorter and longer period of time. Social, psychological, and physical reasons are not healthy. Lasting changes include Surgery, chemotherapy and other irreversible medical procedures. Detailed management measures are recommended regarding the decision for permanent changes, including it is suggested that the minister appoint a new team for babies born with atypical sexual traits. It is assumed that there is a special rule of action due to a short urinary tract in the Latin language called hyposapadias and chemotherapy due to an undergrowth of the penis, which is also called micropenis. It is suggested that the performance of these treatments should be less pronounced than that of other permanent changes in non-typical gender symptoms without the child's consent, however there are stricter guidelines for these therapies than for other medical treatments. In these two cases it is suggested that although a child born with atypical sexual traits is too young to agree with the standards for evaluation of the need for treatment and therefore it is permitted to view social, psychological, and physical factors. However, in other respects, and especially in the case of verbal treatment, the same rules as the rest of the permanent changes in the atypical symptoms of children without consent, including for the detailed treatment of paediatric patients born with atypical gender characteristics, documentation of treatment information, etc. In fact, the definition of atypical sex traits is suggested here to ensure a wide range of protection for children. Madam President. The bill is intended to provide a full set of laws on patient rights and child - shaped treatments for children born with a non-typical gender characteristics. The legislation on the rights of patients shows that the patient is entitled to the most qualified and qualified healthcare professional available. Furthermore, he has the right to a service that depends on his condition and prospects at any given time and the best knowledge available. Under the law, the patient is also entitled to information, including the health of, planned therapy and information about its progress, its risks and benefits, other possible alternatives to planned treatment and its consequences if there is no response and the possibility to seek the opinion of another doctor or other healthcare professional as appropriate for the treatment, condition and prognosis. In addition, the above law states that the patient's right to choose for himself whether he will accept treatment and that no treatment can be undertaken without the patient's consent. It should be agreed as much as it is possible to write, as the patient's information was provided as well as to understand the information. IV. section of the patient's legislation on the rights of patients is a special rule for sick children and children as caregivers. It says that if a patient is less than 16 years of age, parents should be informed and given information to sick children taking into account their age and development. However, they have the right to refuse information. The law also states that parents who have custody of a child should accept the necessary treatment of a child less than 16 years of age. As far as possible, sick children should be consulted and always if they are 12 years of age and older. Furthermore, according to child - protection guidelines, parents who exercise custody refuse to accept the necessary treatment. It will show that if there is no longer enough time to seek the protection of a child under essential emergency treatment in a sick child, it is mandatory that the health of the child be guided and immediately resort to needed treatment. A patient's right to do whatever is possible for a sick child to develop and enjoy quality of life despite illness and treatment as indicated by the condition. Furthermore, children should be spared unnecessary research and action. Madam President. Children have the right to the best health care. This includes both the administration of necessary treatment and the inclusion of treatment in accordance with the patient's informed consent. In accordance with local requirements, treatment must not be carried out without the patient's consent. In particular, it is stated that children should be spared unnecessary testing and action. In this regard, it should be noted that when children can accept treatment. Parents and guardianal responsibilities may limit the right of newborn and young children to self - determination rights and physical immunity, where they cannot communicate and agree. According to Section V, parents and guardians have responsibilities toward a child, including a child. envisages a child's right and a parent's right to determine the personal condition of a child. Parents should consult their child before deciding what to do as the child's age and development warrants, and the attitude of the child should be increased as the child grows older and matures, in accordance with the guidelines of the child's law. That's what I was talking about earlier, too. Thus, we build this bill on the principles set out in the above principles of valid laws, but more important measures are needed to protect the interests of children born with atypical sexual traits. We set up a new team for babies born with atypical gender characteristics. The laws on sexual autonomy already recommend the task of a team of child-adolescents: Land hospital on sexual consciousness and atypical sexual characteristics. The task of the team with regard to non-typical sex characteristics will be extended to the new team, as well as to enhance its role with the bill. Then there's a code of increased charges under the law, including to the surgeon and the Ministry of Health. The financial impact on the state funds is not expected. It is mandatory to note that within three years of the implementation of the law on children born with atypical sexual traits, a minister should appoint a team of experts to review the requirements based on the available experience and development of research and knowledge and best human rights projects. In particular, the group should evaluate the paragraph on the above-mentioned special rules that I covered before because of the urinary tract too short and the treatment of penile hypoplasia, including the right to dismiss the procedure. The task force shall submit the proposal to the Minister. With this bill, I believe that we would, if we consent to it and make the law, be willing to accept a great deal of justice for babies born with non-typical sexual traits and their victims. Behind this bill is the hard work of the group I mentioned earlier, where there were quite different views, a lot of knowledge and experience that each agent brought into this work. I hope that the great knowledge and experience have paid off in this bill that I believe, as the others I have recommended today, deserve a detailed discussion by then. I suggest that the bill be referred to at the end of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u55	A respectable president. We here deal with a very good bill in many respects, about atypical sexual traits, and sexual autonomy. On page 18. 11 Indeed, with the permission of a president: ▪ The actions are permitted with conditions of recovery. The bill sets, i.e. with the child's consent or if the child is unable to accept when there is a medical basis, then the procedure prescribed should be followed. And then come what I want to see: In cases where foreskin surgery is typical, and as such actions may be carried out or planned for religious or cultural reasons, extravasation and the regulations of the bill do not affect whether such procedures are carried out or allowed. Earlier today, we were talking about a law about what is best for the child. On page 18. 5 states: ▪ Necessary medical treatments without informed consent include violations against the relative rights of children and can result in serious negative consequences. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Why on earth is this exception? What is the explanation that for religious reasons, only if someone thinks of it, this operation will be carried out? Why is it not true that when the child is 15 years old, he can make an informed decision about this? How can you ever get it to the point that it's an equal?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u56	Madam President. How in the world do I get it out, ask it. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. I get it this way that my role as a member of the Generals approved by me in terms of sexual autonomy was dealing with medical procedures on children with atypical gender characteristics. I was not assigned by the General to comment on male circumcision for religious reasons. It does not spring from their being born with atypical form of gender. The bill I post here, based on this much work that has been over a wide range of views and skills, is about babies born with atypical sexual traits. I think the rest is a very second discussion. A boy's circumcision falls away from the definition of atypical sexual traits, which is what the General asked prime minister to do. That's what Prime Minister does here, and he puts up this bill. Then I just want to remind you that foreskin surgery is done here, sometimes for health reasons. This is because the foreskin is too narrow or causes pain. This can cause problems with passing urine and infections and other problems, to form with sex. Therefore, it may be medically necessary to attack to remove or open parts of the foreskin without removing it. When it comes to children less than 16 years of age, such actions take place under 4. in which sexual symptoms are considered atypical. But predevenges where the foreskin is just ordinary, and since such actions may be carried out or planned for religious or cultural reasons, simply fall outside the framework of what the General appointed me to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister gives the answer, but I disagree deeply. The above article discussed such action, and, fortunately, laws have not been made that would be unnecessary and unnecessary surgery on the female and female genitals, which were also performed for religious reasons. Yes, they are serious, and in many cases they are far more serious than the actions being performed on boys' genital organs. But it does not matter whether you use less violence or more violence, it is not okay to say that such action can be carried out on the basis of a religious issue. I just can't accept that. I find it quite remarkable that we here in Iceland, with all our legal systems and equality, let's just keep this out. I can't find any reason for that, it's just like boys and girls. They're supposed to have the same rights. And if it is forbidden to operate on girls for religious reasons, that also applies to boys. It must be minimal enough for us to have things like that. I'm just saying, Guð is evil if he wants to allow it to be to a child. Let your child be 15 years old. Let's let it decide. Let's do this if we have to, as we have seen at the highest level. Prime Minister, for medical reasons. But I have no understanding that such things are done solely for religious reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u58	Madam President. It was a recent assembly case that dealt with male circumcision and predestination operations on boys for religious reasons. There's nothing that can stop him. Parliamentaries to set up the matter. As was clearly shown in my reply to my previous answer, this bill is about enforcing a preliminary law on sexual autonomy and about changing the laws about atypical sexual traits. For religious reasons, predestination or circumcision is not about atypical sexual traits and has nothing to do with the sexual autonomy law. All right, everybody. However, members of Congress can arrange for these matters if they wish to do so. But I just want to reiterate that I am here to enforce the will of the Generals and that I have prepared for the important work that has been done. I'd like to reiterate that this is a huge improvement and corrective case for children born with an atypical sexual traits. The second matter should be discussed specifically and should not be considered in the context of sexual autonomy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u59	President. The bill we're discussing here leads to an Icelandic tradition. The world-wide name tradition is one of our special characteristics as a nation and is always receiving a great and positive attention abroad. If this bill becomes a law, it will overthrow our unique tradition and all that it has to do with it. Here it is suggested that all can choose their names freely. The result? Yes, father's name and mother's name, our main characteristics, will gradually disappear. Men and women will pick up their last names and throw their last name, or mother's name. This is necessary because of the highest. Minister of Justice has heard stories about someone who doesn't want to use his last name or mother's name, building a bill on conversations of unique examples in a town that is supposed to walk over centuries of names in the country. In 1996, middle names were permitted, and today most children have a middle name. In school, they are almost always presented with an intermediate name, but their last name and mother's name are omitted. Allowing a full name is a sure way to stop using a last name or a mother's name. It would almost be banning family names. In 1996 three names were authorized to be used. This was impossible for the economist and national records. What will this be when the same person will have ten names? For example, how will a person solve it when publishing passports? There is a requirement for a passport name to be the same as in a national file. It's the highest. Minister of Justice completed this assignment? It must be, yes, this is the top priority of the government and the Independence Party at Covid time. The most important issue behind the budget is to pick up your family names and name as many names as you want and throw away the human name system. Icelandic names are part of an Icelandic language, so it is a major part of the protection of the case that Icelandic names fit in with an Icelandic denting system. Madam President. I am very disappointed in the top part of my life. The prime minister, who is a great lover of Icelandic and a former minister of education, should approve this matter. It doesn't mean to claim to be Icelandic and then do nothing about it when it comes to Icelandic name tradition and Icelandic tradition. This is not the first time this government weighs on an Icelandic tradition, and I don't understand the journey of the Independence Party in this matter. The report on the bill shows which experts advise on the contract of the bill. We were not consulted by our leading specialist in this field, Dr. Guðrún Kvaran, professor of Icelandic studies at the University of Iceland, who was long the director of the School of Education and the Director of the Institute of the Year Magnúson and the chairman of the Icelandic Language Committee. Dr. Guðrún studied Icelandic names for over three decades. I'm sure she hasn't been contacted because she's completely against the bill, and I've talked to her about it. This bill is not part of supporting the Icelandic language, which is under attack, as it has been noted many times. Names and their dents are as important as all other Icelandic vocabularys, and the denting system is starting to bounce in the common Icelandic language. This is the most important case in the Covid season administration home. It can be called one of Icelandic culture's unique changes in our names from the beginning of the region far after centuries. Although various names have disappeared from fashion during the last thousand years and others have been adopted, the main source of human names remains the same as in the days of Ingólfur Arnarsson. These are much cultural value and one of the things that unite us as a nation. Icelandic man - made tradition involves deep information about ancient culture. It should therefore be kept and not run until any changes are made. Seminar's reported statistics reveal the names of the people of Iceland. That's where even the two of them come from. ... toabout 80% of the rolls are based on more than 200 names, indicating that big changes are not necessarily needed. People in general are attached to names, and experience shows that family names are often chosen or looked for a new name in Icelandic culture. I think it's inevitable that those who want to stand for a change in human names realize that changes in human names are likely to have a major impact on human names. I'm convinced they won't. The bill assumes that the Human Name Committee will be put down. If there is a disagreement, the National Registry will be cut off, or the Agency will need to be consulted by Magnúson. Don't we have two names? I'm asking, Madam President. If a human commission is canceled, we will see many new names appear on the scene that we have no imagination to think of today. The culture of our language is unique. It's, for example. It is remarkable that modern diagnostic devices can be used unchanged in the ancient language. In this context, we must not lose at all. In information and communication technology, there is an acute threat to the Icelandic language. The Icelandic is about to be protected. The Icelandic doesn't need this bill. A culturer is something that connects us with our past, our roots, and walks into our self - image. The idea of Icelandic culture is thus closely related to the idea of Icelandic nationalities. Icelanders were at the same time liberal and conservative when they came to be named after the conversion. Icelandic culture was a stable and a Christian custom was in harmony with our language and culture in various ways. Pagan names, even those that reminded of ancient superstitions, enjoyed how liberal and conservative the Icelanders proved to be after the Reformation. Thus, Thors'names did not lose their popularity with Christianity. When the Icelanders met Christian literature, names from various church publications began to appear. The nation's interest in the origin and meaning of names is no new word. In the book of Hawk, recorded in the early 14th century, it is said that it was accompanied by luck and victory to extract the names of the gods of its sons, such as Thors' name. If it was likely for longevity and prosperity. In a historical history, the name and nature of a person fall together. That is what the Bible says: "Who is the name of God, and why is it so? " Usually, parents are concerned about choosing their children good or pretty names, although the other person also wants to be burned that people do not always realize that other names could have a bad effect on the child. The 19th - century independence battle of Iceland had a significant effect on the nouns, and names were increasingly used in ancient literature and mythology. It would be proper for the Independence Party to keep this in mind now that he would like to put out an Icelandic tradition. I told it here in the beginning that this is not the first time this government has a name - making tradition. With a recent agreement on sexual autonomy, it was a law for girls to give their names to women and boys a man's name to be canceled. A Human Name Committee, appointed to our most skilled specialists, said of the issue that this meant that an Icelandic tradition could now be named, as an example, of the boy Þorgerður and the girl Sigurður. Now that a man can be named Guðrún, how to bend it? I know the highest. Will Minister of Justice do that? This change greatly affected the denting system. It wasn't necessary to go that way. It would have been possible to compromise, that alongside the defined female and male names could be added to a class of names, in which most were movie names could be given to both girls and boys. This should have been an example of dancing anonymity. In August 2017, the Ministry of Education and Culture introduced a grammatical program for Legality for 2018/2022. Among other things, the project aims to secure the way and access of the Icelandic language. So there may be a problem with the fact that at the General Assembly, a bill is presented by the Minister of Justice and by the blessing of the government directly working against it. Is this the subject of the Independence Party at the General Assembly weighing to an Icelandic tradition? You ask yourself. The removal of the law that names do not contradict an Icelandic language opens the way for the language, including names, to change and develop. It is important to protect and protect the Icelandic language. So there are spelling and grammar rules and, therefore, no reason to exclude names of people. The spirit of the bill is liberal and is expressed directly in the bill. People are trusted to maintain culture and customs that have meaning for them as part of a larger population. With the same reasoning, the highest will come to pass. I suppose the Minister of Justice would like to cancel the spelling rules and give the nation the authority to spell words by their own heads. This may be next on the government program. There is a contradiction in wanting to preserve the Icelandic language and then hide a person's perfect freedom to spell his name. This has been emphasized by a Human Name Committee. It is a search for parents who are unconcerned about what names they give to their children. When it comes to choosing a child's name or name, parents always be careful. The final decision is likely to be made in full harmony with parents. In exceptional circumstances, parents request to use a name or name that is not listed on a list of allowed names in Icelandic or written languages. The law on names of people leads to a direct route of such matters and a speculative decision. In most cases, payment is relatively simple, but at times the names applied are not in harmony with the law and are therefore rejected. Denial is by nature, so to speak. Interestingly, though, even unrecognized names are often not used at all. This has been pointed out by the committee of human names. Then it seems generally unknown that most of the human names committees return to the writing of names, whether it is permitted to write an Icelandic name against the Icelandic spelling and language. The Human Committee considers it clear that they should be protected by public interest and language to weigh more than the individual's right to write their name against the rules and language. In recent years, only a few cases of the decision made by a committee of human names have been prominent in the media, but it does not provide the correct picture of the activities of the Committee. Freedom is a term often used in human names discussions, and it is emphasized in the bill. All right. But which goes before, perfect freedom, or a banquet of Icelandic tradition and Icelandic language? Why, then, can we not just spell in the way we like it best? What is involved in using a different type of font? True, there are many ways, but it is obvious that results from unlimited freedom in this series of languages leads to chaos. And that is the way the government is on with this bill. Guide chaos with our most precious culture, our man - made tradition, and our language. The Parliament must work in accordance with a law that it itself has approved and validated in the land. It is enough to refer to a universal law on Icelandic languages, microbubbles, spelling ads and phrases of articles and a list of studies for play, basic and after-school schools. The Human Committee has for many years been the only cause of legal action. She has been given little support, only to the media and to others who have little knowledge of what is involved. Mrs. President I suggest that the bill be set aside, and the Allied Committee has a panel of experts asking to review existing laws and to adapt them wisely to changing times, but with regard to the preservation of the Icelandic language. The bill is the most harmful form of Icelandic name - name tradition and the English language, and it is the middle tribe against it altogether.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u60	V.E.G. President. I'm one of those people who think very highly of all these matters, both present and present, as is the bill set here. I have a lot of problems in current legislation. I'm not entirely sure that the bill we have here would bring all the answers, but I'm willing to consider it with a positive attitude. But for the sake of my names, what? paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, I wondered why he thinks the change in the bill would lead to an Icelandic tradition of harm. The practice is much older than the law on this subject. The human committee is a relatively new phenomenon. I have to admit that I think human tradition lives because it has a sound foundation with the people, not because some law code says something about that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u61	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm glad to hear it. A senator is a little concerned about these matters and the bill. I now believe that there is no unity within the Independence Party in this matter. I've talked to a lot of independents who are very surprised at how much emphasis is placed on this matter here, but that may not be what comes to the inquiry of a man. A senator in front of you. Hv. A senator asked what he believes is the way of the human tradition and that tradition is so rich. I base my opinion on the conclusion that I had carefully considered this matter and had discussed with our best specialist in this series of subjects, mentioned in my talk Dr. Guðrún Kvaran, and had a good conversation with her on this subject. It is against this bill that she believes will weigh to the Icelandic human tradition. A certain compromise was made in 1996, as I mentioned when middle names were allowed. There may have been some answer to their family names, that people were not allowed to record them. But what was the experience of recording the middle names? Yes, she did. Now it's only very common for children to be, for example. in school, also known as the middle name. Then my last name or mother's name is released, and I think it's a classic example of that. Guards, e.g. The family names allowed, as suggested in this bill, will gradually disappear from the Icelandic name and tradition we are supposed to protect.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u62	V.E.G. President. I have also listened to the family names of Guðrún Kvaran and others as well as to how they harmonize with the local language system. To this day, there is much more available authority to adopt family names than were the longest in the 20th century, and I'm not sure that it caused any breakthrough in these subjects. I think it's right to keep that in mind. The Icelandic language and name tradition have done quite well with the changes that have taken place. I can't picture myself, unlike what happened. A senator, although freedom was increased in this area, would lead to the disaster of the modern - day Icelandic tradition he believes. I think that on the basis of that, and if you continue to do so, you will have Icelandic language and tradition and customs in your language because you have a sound foundation for the people, because you choose to speak Icelandic, people choose Icelandic names, not because the legislatureor acts, and forbids the other or this. I think that's how we're supposed to get to it. I'm willing to look at the bill with critical eyes. But I reiterate what I said earlier that Icelandic human tradition is much older and more advanced than the law letter we are dealing with in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u63	Madam President. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. Senator. This certainly is a deep - seated, highly important and remarkable tradition that we have in our man - made tradition, and we must protect it. Even now, our freedom is certainly a good thing, but it is just so radically changing that it is a way of bringing up an Icelandic man - made tradition. Our greatest expert in this series has expressed it to me, as I mentioned earlier, and you are certainly supposed to pay attention to the people who have spent their whole life on this party. If we do not listen to those who know best about them, I feel bad about it. I'm certainly hoping that the committee will carefully review it and ask: Is this what the public wants in Iceland? I doubt it a lot, but... A senator, indeed. V.E.G. The minister of justice has mentioned that it gathers some stories about individuals who do not want to be mentioned by father or mother at all. I think it's just a great memory of the nation, and I don't think it's the important thing to suggest that we have here a system, a human tradition in the country that's so special that it's woken up and always attracts attention all over the world. I'm just saying right now, Madam President, I think it's the duty of the Independence Party to protect this tradition, but not to go this way, which has gone by overturning a system of great cultural value to us as a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u64	Madam President. When it comes to anything that is related to the English language, there is a difference of opinion. I would like to state that in general, name - making systems are in close contact with national languages and cultures. We can, for example. Look to China. We know the premise of human names there, and if you look to native nations like Maoria, you will see the same. And what about Russia or other Eastern European countries? There is a system that can be identified, and we view it as part of the culture of these nations. It is good to review the story and see how this has really developed with us. In the old days, as we say in the history age, the names were quite varied, and we know many examples of names that would not go on today, such as. Ljótur, at least it wouldn't work. Another significant point was that they had a nickname. My father, to the second tribe, was Þórólfur the smjör of Þorsteinsson, and it was often used; he traveled with a man who was called Hrafna-Hrafna-Flóki; that is another nickname. Who can't remember Auður djúpúðgur, etc.? This system, if we can call it that, i.e. That nickname, disappeared. Later, there was a middle name, like mine, Ari Trausti. It's not so very old, it actually became common or allowed. Later, these foreign family names, many of which we know about, Möller, and other things that often came from Denmark, are added. They were big, Dannar. The Norwegian came so later, especially through fishing and whaling, and there came yet another family name. Then, from the Middle Ages, the Icelanders themselves began to make their own last names, identify themselves with farms, shores, or anything like that. At times, the situation was unsatisfied, as was the case with Vídalín. At times, these were father - to - father backs, such as Thorkelsson or Thorlacius, and they went quite far, yet the individuals were few. Then comes a particular wave in the 19th and 20th centuries. We remember The Wrecker Breun Breiðfjörður. Then they recorded names that were real father names like Björnsson, Sveinn, that became a last name. And then all the Nordalains and Nordhal, with dh, and sometimes the spelling was different on those names, and this group was quite large. In my family is a family name, Father was literally a baptized Guðmundur of the Middle Miðdal, so I could be Ari Trausti Middle Miðdal if I wanted to. But what happens here is that immigrants are about to be introduced in the 20th century, and they were often from central Europe, and they kept their names for quite a long time until the rules for men to record Icelandic names. Páll Pampichler, the Austrian who was here active in the music, became Pálsson, for he had the same name as his father. But he was very upset about this, and through acquaintances, I know that he did it out of his shame to apply for the name Steinbítur Harðfisksson, but he didn't get it. Then there were others in this group who did not need to change their names like Vladimir Ashkenazy, the highly potent musictic. My family had been caught on this mother's side, and this was generally ill - seen. So it may have been after the growing number of immigrants in the country, and it is now time for more than 50,000 immigrants, immigrants, prospective Icelanders, or many of them, to have their foreign native names. Then one of them wants to take a name, and do it, or children or grandchildren do it, creating something that has the name daughter or son. That, in turn, focuses our attention on the subject of this bill. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir made clear one and another subject of reflection that is on the floor among members of Congress on the left green. I may come to more personally and simply say that I want to hold on to the main system in the country. I'd like to be the subject of the bill in another way. What I'm simply saying is that I don't want to allow any of the new Icelandic family names, i.e. to continue the tradition that was just beginning in the first half of the 20th century, let's say, i.e. that it is allowed to have a personal name, such as Icelandic or non - English, that is not all that counts. It is often said that parents can be trusted to do these things well, and most of them are probably right. But those of us who have observed the actions and decisions of the Human Name Committee, and who saw this in the media, know that many of the strange violins have found their way there to the names of children. I don't have to take any examples, we all know it. It's a question of how this would look with the Icelandic family names. Then there is another factor to consider, i.e. how the meaning of foreign family names, especially Europeans, gradually disappears. It's a TV show called an English police officer called Inspector Thursday, his last name is Thursday. I knew a woman in Germany whose last name was Ziegenhorn, or goat horn. For most people, this is totally neutral, and if we run it across Iceland, we can say that our personal names often have no meaning for people. It's like the name of my good partner, boy. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér; his name really means black leg, but there's no one to link it to his personal name Kolbeinn. There are probably very few people who link my personal name to an eagle, but Ari an old name for an eagle. This is one of the things that might be happening with family names in Iceland, many of them at least, that they would gradually become meaningless and stranger to the taste, and maybe it's okay. However, this is a process of evolution, whether it is a personal name or a family name, worthy of consideration. My argument is simply this: A humanized Icelandic system, as it really is, is supported by a culture in which I want to retain as a red thread in our culture. This means there will be three groups of people here, i.e. The sons, and the daughters, and the young men, with their own name. There is also a large group holding their family names as immigrants until they disappear if they disappear. And then they are the ones who have their existing family names and who continue with them as they have been permitted and who are sure of it. So, in my opinion, this is the only point that are the last names. I'm not thinking about the whole bill, as noted earlier, nor do I prophesy chaos like what was. Birgir This is Þórarinsson's bed before I do. My attitude is simply clear. We keep it as it is, but we do not allow any further family name. That's kind of what's going on. It has been put here in the symposium some question mark that the Council is involved in the development of human names, and my final words shall be of what we can call cultural development. In fact, I cannot agree because all of the work environments of culture, and hence all its effects, are conditional of all kinds of laws and regulations approved here, and we have agreed that Icelandic spelling should be subject to the approval of the Generals or the introduction of the General Assembly. We have also agreed that it is mandatory to use Icelandic language in administrative and other languages, and it can be said that culture is a complex interaction between governments, governments, organizations that do and fight for, schools, individuals, and all sorts of social discussions. This interaction is so common in it as does any other member of the council. I do not agree that this is a violation of some democratic tradition, ethics, or philosophy or law because the General divided himself from this sector of Icelandic culture. Finally, I look forward to seeing what comes out of work. The General and Education Committee will arrive and will perhaps attend. participate in these discussions later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u65	V.E.G. President. Here we still discuss a bill for a human name song. It's not the first time. Often, a pleasant discussion of this matter has taken place. There have been lengthy and extensive speeches for all of this, and they even thought that this was a nationalized tradition. It's not my feeling after checking on this matter as soon as I want to say that I think it's important to maintain Icelandic traditions and defend the English language because we have to defend ourselves on various fronts, e.g. On television, on the radio, on video games, and on other things, and I find that an English tongue has become full of colors. But there are positive things on the bill. We live and live in a changed society. What we recorded last year, i.e. When a person has a neutral sex registration to a national registry, he is authorized to use the name of a father or a mother for a suicide or a non-fiction name -son, daughter or -bur. The latter end of a landmark was permitted by the same legislation. Similarly, the rules for change of names in conjunction with changes in the registration of race in a national file were made clear. This is one of the things we're going through because we're living in a changed society and we have other criteria and we're going to agree with other things that we didn't do here before, and that's good, that's good. Our case, our community's on the rise, and the Icelandic human tradition is one of the foundations of our society. Still, we must have the courage to make changes and move forward. There have been reports of family names. I can agree with the members of the council who have discussed it before, but I don't see a direct reason why we're about to start taking names in large shape. It may be that there's just something I don't know, and I may have referred to a speech I've held here before, since I assumed that the person standing here would take up the family name Þverdalur and refer them to the senator's words that were put in front of me. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and other members of Congress, where something was taken from the human environment or something in human qualities or such, I refer them not only to my appearance but to the fact that I live in the Valley of Turfells. But there is now another story, and it can be said elsewhere than here. But there's one thing I'd like to call attention to in the bill, which I think is positive and I'm not sure that before that, according to this, it will be granted to Iceland's National Book that a baby in permanent foster care is taught to foster parents. The agreement of the child's birth parents, if possible, must be sought before making such a decision, so that I direct on page 3 of the bill. It also states that if a sex parent is not accepted as a change in her name, Iceland's national registry can allow the change if it is thought to be in harmony with the interests and will of a child. This I think is very positive, and I know a group of children who would like to look into it, and this needs to be done more closely. So there are positive things in this regard. Similarly, in the bill, a child under the age of 15 with the approval of those who submit to its guardianship or expert committee, as stated at Article 9. a law on sexual suicide changed its personal name and name, while changing the registry of gender. The change in name according to these laws is of no value until it has been entered into a national record. There are other factors in this and many positive things, so let us not be afraid to discuss these matters and continue considering them because we need to adapt to the way they are created, how society forms them, and how we accept them. A tradition would not exist and would not have been preserved unless we have an accurate knowledge of it. We like tradition, and we want to keep it. If we want to maintain the Icelandic human name tradition, I'm not worried about that. I think we want to keep doing this, and basically we'll stick to the situation as we've had it. I suggest that the committee take a good look and go deep into this. But as I mentioned earlier, the highest. President, if we can talk about a threat like that, the threats to our tongue will come in many places. It's, for example. how we handle the names of immigrants. I've been advised that e.g. on soccer players are using the first names of the Icelanders, their personal names of Icelanders, but then always speaking of foreigners or those from other places, using their last name in descriptions. It's out of harmony. I know of teachers who have got students into their classes with their natural names - and who are close to them and who love their names - and help them adapt them to Icelandic traditions and help them bend them according to it. I think this is also the thing we need to look at, how we're going to do it. I'll ask the committee to take a good look at this, look into the matter, as I know the committee will.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u66	President. As the president so kindly read up, my name is Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. You may realize that I have two names, both known to my father, Óttar, and so have my last name Proppé. Proppé is a remarkable family name, that I think, because it's about my family. We're here because we'reppé, the survivors or connected to those who have come from Claus Emger Eggert Dietrich Proppér, who arrived in Iceland in 1868. He was an importer. So if I were to stand here today against the fact that others would adopt a family name as I do, even immigrants who come to the country that wants to keep it, now or those people who have some other names today but who want to choose their last name. I will not do that, but will support the choice of people in these matters. As I came to, Mr. President, I have these two names myself, so I also believe in the ancient Icelandic tradition of being called to father. There are also some around me who are attracted to something else, to my mother, and some who are associated with me have adopted the fun innovations that came a few years ago, teaching themselves both to father and to mother. This is how we've developed and developed and adopted a number of innovations, which are good. In the foundation, we've kept the old system, which is also good for historians like me. I have faith that it will continue despite the fact that someone will take advantage of the laws that give them a choice. So I will support this case, with all the reasons that there is a possibility of fixing something up, as in the case of Congress, that's often where something needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u67	A respectable president. I've been giving some talks on this matter before. There's been more than just a few of them. Minister of Justice and it's very good to see it expedient from the government because it's likely to continue. Last, memorable, in a way that I didn't consider the Allied to be a credit to them. Of course, it is the traditional tradition here at the General Assembly to reject what the government puts into place, so, of course, things can fly through when the greater part gives them the opportunity to celebrate, for the greater part gives them good things like this. I listened to a talk earlier. paritaprevir Þórarinsson the son of Thorin, why. 3.m. South., and had seen the skunk. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, also on the rosary. Either I missed him or he hasn't spoken up, at least I didn't hear a speech from him. But in the speech of a man. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! I thought it was a very interesting view of tradition, English language, and Icelandic culture, and what it means to accept both. You see, I don't really disagree by myself. A senator says that we should have an Icelandic tradition. I love her. That does not mean, however, that I want to control what other adults, independent individuals choose to name. That's what it's all about. It is not about which one of us cares more about culture or tradition. That's secondary, and it's not relevant to a respectable president. Perhaps it is news for those senators who have spoken earlier today. That's not relevant. It's about who decides what to do. It is always the same story, when it comes to acknowledging the right of the individual to control something in his own life, the more conservative forces fight freedom on the ground just because they don't get to control and have things the way they want them to. That's what I heard here in talk. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! ... earlier today. He wants to rule it. He wants to control it. That's the issue, not which one of us loves the human name tradition more or who has more expertise in Icelandic or human name tradition. A respectable president. I come up here and I can stay up here today because I'm so called what. Senator. I'm gonna put myself on a little high horse right now and talk as high as possible. A citizen as a respectable individual. Dear Senator World, it's none of your business what I choose to call myself, my name. It's my name. I decide what I believe, you don't decide what I believe. I have the opinions I want. You don't hire them. You can come up here in a pit and bearded how you feel about the other opinions and if you think I should believe it or hold the other. But it's not relevant, and, more dignified President, I own my name, and I decide what it is, not the great General. If this talk is held in a committee or in front of experts, they always say, "Yes, that's right, the highest. A citizen or a respectable person. Senator, this is now just a registration. That, a respectable president, is out of turn to fall, misled, because a name is what we choose to teach ourselves, and when we tell the authorities that we vow this or that we vow it, the authorities do not record it if they violate and set some rules that my name, which they intend to record, should be written according to some particular tradition or custom, a respectable president. I find it so amazing that free people make it happen that the authorities will tell them their names. Happily, we are growing up by allowing the authorities to tell us which religion we can be or what views we should have, or sexual, or what kind of person we are, and naturally we are growing up because we want to be free, and this is a more liberal bill. It's just funny to listen to what's happened. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson here speaks of liberality in the bill as being something dangerous or dangerous. I'll let him answer for that in his second speeches if he chooses. A respectable president. I thought it best to also come up here as a citizen and point out to the high Council what we are doing at the Council that people are not involved, our work is here. To defend the freedom of the citizens, not to tell how they should conduct their own lives or their names. It's not our job. If there was only one thing I'd like it to be during this council. We are not used to talking here about government limitations or governmental limitations, which are a perfect prerequisite for freedom to do something. It's not a license. It's not a warrant. Of course it's a bill, though, like the ones that have come before, that there are some limits put there, so I don't mean to say that the bill is perfect rather than the ones that came before, but it has to be pretty lame to be worse than what you already have to be. Likewise, there are, of course, some technical obstacles. Suppose we need to have some form of Latin alphabet in the Index or to say just "U.S. alphabet. " I don't think there would be any particular problem with adding Danish ay or something about dead or even Latin versions of Arabic letters, the maltian, so something like that. Technically, I do not believe that there is too much problem, nor for the Icelanders to read it so that it is heard in every sense right, at least close enough to avoid offending people too. No doubt there are some regulations and rules and measures to meet technical limitations, say the length of names, or something like that. It's just technical solutions, a respectable president, and again, it's not relevant. We don't have a problem with this when it comes to addresses, we just set some rules, and people are really cool with them. It's not a real problem, a respectable president, and there's no real disagreement about that either. Congressers do not come up here and demand that their names be written in Chinese or Arabic languages. As a technicalist, I might find this interesting to me, but the interest doesn't go too far. Senators come up here to discuss freedom, that an individual in a free society has himself, and they decide for themselves what he believes, what kind of opinion he has, what sex he is. In fact, he does not necessarily decide, but telling it to others is the same person. It is not for others to tell them about a person, as is his or her name. If I simply feel that I have a name other than the government, that's my name. I don't care what authorities think about it. I'll listen to Dr. Guðrún Kvaran because I'm interested in what she says, theoretically. I find the tradition interesting, I find the Icelandic story interesting, I find the Icelandic language very interesting, and I want us to hold on to it. It's not about that, Mr. Honorable President. It's about that somehow the government somehow managed to convince itself, and the majority of the nation's population, that it was the job of the government to decide what to name people. It's such a ridiculous idea that I don't quite know how she ever got into the concept of a republic here. But I'm not going to have this much further, more dignified President. I've held this fistula or something several times before and I've come to hold it for as long as it's needed. But with the above answers, I support this case, making sure that there are some technical changes made, as it goes and happens, and is absolutely certain. I thought it was time to come up here and correct a misunderstanding that was so long ago, that it was something about how we feel about the tradition of names. That's secondary. It's about whether we believe that people in this community have their own names or not. I believe it. Right away. People want to come here in a pita and start evaluating traditions and freedom of person, I feel that they should just say that they don't have their names, that they don't feel that people should have their own lives because it's the direct logical result of what they've said in pont when they've held it up a different view. It's not just this, we live in a time in which there are constantly trying to draw out the individual's freedoms in different forms. It's nice to see you here at the highest. Minister of the Independence Party and what. A member of the Independence Party here in the hall somewhere, in fact, you don't quite see the entire hall these days, as we know, and there's another, pointing out the top. A minister of mine. All right. That's not the main thing. The key is the individual's freedom. I think the independence party is a little short on the subject for freedom of the individual. That is why getting it from the highest source is a matter of fresh breath. The Minister of Justice of the Independence Party that this is something of the individual freedom, not just the freedom of business. I have no reason to boast that the person standing here has taken up the matter of allowing domestic padding. The independent party does not seem to be interested, even in them. Members of the Governing Body, which includes the liberal spirit of that category. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, who is not actually in the hall to protect himself from this. I guess he'll come here and give a talk about it sometime during this council. The independent category is more concerned about people's ability to sell alcohol. I'm not against that freedom. I'd vote with a bill like that, with notices on how and what to do. That's not the main thing. Freedom is not just to buy or sell something or to buy something. In this country, individuals and individual freedoms include In that we say ourselves to others, but not in the reverse, of what kind we are, of what kind we have, of what kind we are, of what kind we are, and of what disposition we are, and of what honour we are. If that wasn't clear in this speech, I'm gonna support the bill and thank you very much. The Justice Minister of the Independence Party for presenting it at last.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u68	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the Iceland State Service Act, No. 39/1971, with subsequent changes. Since my accepting the office of foreign ministers, I have stressed reform, policy, and practicality for the future. The first action included an order of a member team that proposed in 2017 a total of 151 proposals for changing work environments, policies, and funding of the important work being carried out by the foreign service. One suggestion of that report was a review of the law on foreign services, but instead of a full reexamination, some aspects of foreign legislation are proposed. The bill was submitted to the 150th legislature but was not completed. The changes made by the greater part of the foreign committee have been taken into account. Within the foreign service, a strong group of people and directors work in the foreign service, much of which are from a group of embassies who move to work, either at the office or at the Ministry Department's headquarters. Those serving as ambassadors have most often dedicated their career to foreign service and have progressed to the office of ambassadors. There are, however, some cases over the years that have been appointed as ambassadors, successful political or commercial parties, which have developed links, knowledge and reputation in the world field and can be a valuable addition to international interest care for Iceland. The current state-of-the-endice law actually grants the Minister of the seminary a free hand in order to the ambassador's order as long as the person meets the minimum minimum requirements required to a government officer. The government is abdicating advertising. Specific requirements are not specified. In fact, during the past few years, the number of emissaries has increased progressively, so when I took over as foreign ministers, there were 40 of them and nearly a quarter of them were diplomats. Some have since retired, but in those years I have been in the Ministry, I have not appointed a new ambassador for office. When it is sought to assess the experience in the current requirement for the position of the workers of the foreign service and to draw conclusions from it, it seems that there may be a reason for taking some steps further than at present to conform to the rules of state-of-the-arts in the general public service, but in other respects the State Services's speciality must require that laws about it be governed in ways other than standard procedures. The changes expected in the bill aim to provide an ideal balance in this subject so that there can be a more successful management of human foreign service, i.e. the setting to attract qualified personnel to the foreign services, which receive normal progress and are subject to adequate vision so that special knowledge and knowledge will be most useful to them. The main changes proposed in the bill are four. First, the roof is placed on the number of ambassadors at any given time. This is how the number of ambassadors is made up of a number of emissaries. Based on the fact that they will be no more than a number of e - mail offices. The bill that lay before the last assembly was based on an 1.2 - rank ambassador's position in view of the number of emissaries. It was noted in the comments that the number and authority required to appoint or temporarily appoint ambassadors are well - kept. I have taken their advice into account, and I have suggested an even greater reduction in this group. An increase or decrease in the number of emissaries will always be carried out by consultations with the WHO State Department and by emissary offices today at 26 p.m. Second, such positions would apply to advertising requirements and qualifications, such as those of other officials. The bill expects no one to accept the public office of ambassadors except for the exception of advertisements and qualifications, such as any other government office. The basic requirements are university testing and international and foreign experience, as shown by the bill. Is this important to consider the progress requirements already being made in the foreign service. This will strengthen the setting to ensure that, at this office, powerful individuals, generally of the most qualified personnel of the foreign service, will be selected, and will ensure that the experience, knowledge, and skills they have taken over the process will be the core of this group of executives. Third, an ambassador's office, or special ambassador, will be granted temporary entitlement for a maximum of five years. The primary objective of such systems is to activate the valuables that may include expertise, experience, and relationships established by relevant individuals in other areas, whether political, cultural, or commercial, to care for limited projects for international interests of Iceland. The proposals of the State Department were made under the treatment of the case requiring university education and specific experience and ability. Has the law been adjusted accordingly. To this end, a minister would continue to be allowed to look beyond the order of the permanent personnel of the foreign service by individuals for special jobs and for the time being set aside. Such orders would not be extending, nor would the person move to other tasks or projects that have not been established. The number of those who can temporarily serve is limited, taking into account the number of emissaries and the number of public ambassadors in each office. This would ensure that the majority of ambassadors are always in accordance with local rules after the advertisement and application procedure. Regarding the order of both temporary ambassadors in accordance with this requirement and the advertised royal position, the adviser of the selection committee is then expected to take into account a comparable requirement for the positions of officials and directors of the administrative system. These regulations also follow the Commission's discussion of the bill at the previous Parliament. The fourth major change is that according to the bill, a minister may temporarily post as ambassador to those who now represent the office of the Ministry. This group contains a number of experienced and strong personnel who are middle executives in foreign service and who have experience and knowledge that is useful in the management and administration of the Ministry. Similarly, a minister will be allowed to transfer the council agents to the office office office office office office office, which was authorized while representatives had the office of officials. This allows us to make greater use of the powers of this group and to advance the progress of the couriers without bringing about a personal order in the ambassador's office. Because of a combination of employees in the position of emissaries and historical sex halls within the foreign service for decades, this adjustment greatly increases women's ability to qualify for formal progress, performs the role of ambassadors and directors of the office, and uses the diplomatic title in foreign relations at the time of the vacancy. Other changes recommended by the bill are consistent with the terms and status of those who already have positions within the foreign service. Mr. President. In short, I would like to mention just how these topics are handled in our neighboring countries. The Norwegian countries, in fact, have their own organization in their foreign service, and of course, there is a much larger and more extensive operation than Iceland does. In other words, the principle in all parts of the North countries is that the posts of ambassadors are advertised, either within foreign service or in general. All foreign services have detailed rules on requirements, criteria, organization, and human policy either in the form of regulations, regulations, or manuals. The largest part of the foreign service here is similar, but until now the ambassador's office and order have been made to form outside the framework. Although ambassadors' positions are generally advertised elsewhere in the North countries, the principle is that they are appointed from a fixed staff who have dedicated their careers in foreign service. But that does not mean that there are exceptions. Examples include, for example, of former politicians who have gone to ambassadorship within the Swedish system. In Norway, former politicians are often the role of ambassadors or couriers for special international projects, and so on. It may well be noted that a minister is suggesting to limit his personal authority and to reduce the number of his officials in the long term. The adjustment I suggest back here is part of a larger image to promote professionalism, clear demands, increase transparency, and strengthen the framework we have for foreign service. If the pandemic has taught us something about our relationship with the international community, then it is that when it comes to finding solutions, supporting, and saving our people, neighbors, and families in times of terror, a powerful foreign service is a cornerstone. Similarly, strong diplomats will make a big difference in maintaining relationships, building a new relationship in business and cooperation in humanitarian and development support at the end of the day. Mr. President. The bill I recommend here is not changed much from what was discussed and carefully introduced for the contributions and treatment of the last council. In addition to the demands on the total number of ambassadors, there has been an increasing increase in objective and professional requirements. My goal in these changes is, as it were, to create a successful setting for the educated foreign services by moving the system closer to what is normally achieved without affecting the special status of the ministry or the threat of its stability. The clearer and flexibleness of professionalism is what foreign service needs for the future. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Foreign Affairs and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u69	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his history of this bill, which is now moved for the second time. It was now that there was some harsh criticism, as it were, from government officials, at least Someone, with the bill and the reviews, from some employees. So I'd like to ask the highest. Whether such comments have been made by a minister. There's something special that the Ministry's employees see themselves forced to defend their foreign service, as it is today. That is actually in the reviews of those who received the bill when it was first delivered, and I would like to ask the highest. A minister may know of cases where the workers have acted in this way. If the highest. A minister could oversee these two factors a little.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Hv. A senator asks if any employees have gone against the will of a minister. Well, where should I start and where shall I end? I'll call attention to that, for example. that when there are any changes in health care, it is not as if health care professionals have been somewhat shy about criticizing them. If I recall, employees also have opinions on the plans of the Neo-creation Minister for the New Creation Center, for example. Of course, there are many other examples. But what's interesting in this, and let's just stop sugaring it, let's just talk about things as they are, is that the disintegrating government opposition has done everything it can to prevent this matter from going on. The arrangement for a minister to have full authority to appoint anyone for the rest of his life is something the government has done everything to sustain. The story in this is that. The U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs, on the demand of government opposition, sent a line on officials and ambassadors and asked for reviews. That's the story. I think it's very important that everyone is aware of this. I'm not going to lie to tell this story. On the other hand, if people speak in a material way about criticism, they are generally from the employees or those who oppose someone outside the foreign service, an ambassador may be an ambassador. It is not yet coming to meet that challenge. However, it is noted that there may be more ambassadors after the bill's approval, and this is met by a further reduction in the number of these advertised ambassadors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u71	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I must say, I'm very surprised to hear that. The minister of this important group of languages is coming up here and saying that some government officials sent in posts and asked them to send in envelopes. I don't know what it's like. I haven't spoken to a single government official in the State Department. I'm simply going over this matter, looking at the reviews that were received when it was first submitted, and then they come from employees, the fine staff working in that department. I think it's only natural to ask whether they've been taken into account, since these employees probably know the most about that operation, had been there for a long time, and therefore I'm not wrong with it. And I'm very surprised at this answer, if an answer should be called, or this remark at the very height. Minister, regarding the fact that the government's possession is ordering some reviews or the opinion of employees on this bill. I finally wanted to say, because of the highest. A minister mentioned an ambassador in this case, that when you look at these reviews, and what has been said about this case of those most familiar, those who are then the Ministry's employees, it has been driven to reduce the number of emissaries, that this is a small number of emissaries. I want it from the highest. In view of the fact that employees have pointed out that this is not the case, a minister at the end of his life whether he is still living up to the fact that this is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u72	A respectable president. Now, wait a minute. A senator listening to what is said here. No one's ever talked about anyone ordering some extraordinary comments. However, I told of it, and that I thought it was quite unique, that there was a review in this case from a messenger that is, I think, something that has rarely happened, if ever. I have no comments to that, just not a few. Each person should just say how he or she feels about it. All that I've had. A senator says about the quality of the staff of the foreign service, I am glad to agree, and I am happy to say. A senator appreciated those jobs. On the other hand, I reviewed it, both in the front story and in the counter, because it was pointed out that it could - that is, on the other hand, a very long fever - could be made more ambassadors than it is now after the bill had been approved. I specifically crossed it, in both my history and my answers earlier, that we changed it, so it's up to us, even though it's been very long before, it can't be right now. In terms of the suggestions that a greater proportion of them have. The State Department brought them into the bill, so their comments were taken into consideration. But then I wake up. A senator for that, because we have enough time - I would like to take this discussion because it has not been taken much in public practice, I hope it will become more in public practice now - to go only materially into what matters. A senator sees this bill, and then we can communicate. But to be clear, even if it was gone, it was the way it was. I'm not against it, not everyone has the right to communicate on this matter as well as anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u73	Mr. President. As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I intend to leave here a few words about the bill as it has become today. Of course, this is a firm review of the laws on foreign service and is being moved in a certain way to modern times and to enhance flexibility. I believe that it was successful to recycle the bill to the extent necessary. This, of course, is based on policy work at the Ministry that was performed a long time ago and is published in a report entitled Foreign Service for the future, which is, in fact, being activated to a large degree, of opinions available within the Ministry, and that's good. What has taken place is this by advertising an ambassador's office, a traditional official method, and limiting them at the same time to a number of emissary emissaries, since it is, of course, certain limitations on the number of ambassadors. At the same time, when this kind of office is advertised by certain demands, employees are doing well, authorities say, for their experience and education, and are well-placed to apply for it. This has been taken into account, such as the highest dose. A minister came in on, the tip, and the suggestion of our committee at the Foreign Affairs Committee, on the one hand, in terms of a recruitment committee, which will be aside to the main responsible minister himself, and will be there to advise him on working out the applyings being received. In itself, there is not an unknown system within the Ministry already. There is also increasing demand for education and expertise that those ambassadors advertised for special projects must have. There is a real benefit in being able to do so. It's up to five ambassadors. The misunderstanding has been that they were no doubt all appointed at once, so that soon five of them were sent by messengers. Of course, this is not the case because it is an assignment. I can mention what comes to my mind, developing cooperation, climate even in the process of action, even in the northern part of the world, it is well - known in many other countries that there are special Arctic ambassadors, and I can also mention a specific aspect of security, such as. a network security problem that is now very swollen. In each of these cases, people with expertise might come in handy, with ambassador's name and profession. In addition, delegates, who are second in line below a sitting ambassador, can be appointed as office manager or ambassador for a moment. It's also to increase the flexibility I mentioned. All of this makes me feel better. At the end, I just want to make sure that it is very important that these changes are made in the greatest terms of reconciliation with foreign workers. I reiterate what I have said many times before: This service is very important to us. It is often criticized for being too large and too expensive for business, etc. But I would say, contrary to the fact that it is not overcrowded in any way, nor is it too much for the whole of money, on the contrary, and the value of such service, efficient and powerful; for a small kingdom, it will be late overrated. So I now declare that we will readily accept this bill again at the moment. A foreign press committee, and it works as professional as ever.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u74	A respectable president. I thank them. Parliamentaries who participated in the discussion. However, it is quite surprising that in view of the efforts made to prevent this issue, it was a priority for the government to stop, not to come and discuss the matter materially here, so that it is said. Like what? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson was reviewing the importance of foreign services, and this case is part of strengthening and strengthening it. Like what? A senator referred to them as being relatively small, one of the few cases that have fallen in recent decades but not up - to - date, i.e. The traditional foreign service, however, has increased both the development and the defense issues. Why do I say that? Because I think it's very important that we discuss these matters. And if there's something that you think is more suitable for the bill in general, they'll have to discuss it, and there's no better place to do it than the Senate. I don't make any comments that people don't agree on everything, not at all. Like what? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who's in trouble, too. State Department, went over, this case has already been given a lot of publicity there and, as before, it was. introduce to employees and try to do it as well as possible. The big thing is that our little foreign service has to be well equipped to protect Iceland's interests because we have no better tools to do that than that. Our differences include... in that when you have such a small foreign service, you will, for example, become such a... The work posts are very small. What does it mean to have very few operations? This means that it presents a great challenge to each employee. I claim that the general rule is that we have more versatile staff in our foreign service than in the foreign service we compare ourselves with, and its knowledge is broader because it has to be. We don't have a choice. There is no doubt in my mind that the people who have chosen to serve in the foreign service are qualified and successful. There are many examples. Also, there is no doubt in my mind that foreign - service projects are very varied and demanding. The situation faced by this epidemic requires an even greater variety of challenges than we anticipated. I'm gonna take this opportunity to thank them. However, members of the council participated in the discussion. I can't wait to take this discussion, we'll definitely do it here at the council or elsewhere, because it's very important that we discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u75	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the Icelandic national capital. The bill was submitted to the 150th legislation but was not successful and is now almost unchanged but some of the comments received by the Allied Environmental and Transport Committee in April have been taken into account. The main focus of the bill is how to implement the national capitals which have been assigned to use the Internet as well as the names services for the capitals and documenting domains under them. Before I have a review of the subject of the bill, I think it's time to draw attention to the fact that today there is no law on national capital. is or other national capital with direct appeal to Iceland. In view of this and the fact that most countries that we compare with us have established a domain law, Iceland has fallen back from other countries in terms of local legislation. With regard to the international development and importance of the network in modern society, there is good reason to set legal decisions on national capitals that have directed appeal to Iceland. In particular, this bill had a security look at its contract and was designed to set minimal rules to promote safety. Thus, the bill is less than the proposed primes in order to form the 139th and 140th legislation, on the same subject but could not be achieved. A respectable president. I think it's time to swerve key elements of the bill. Chapter I explains its objectives, its values range, its domain management, its terms and its personal protection. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the safe, economic, and efficient access to the Icelandic capital and to strengthen their relationship with Iceland by staging on safe, efficient, and efficient management. As noted, there is considerable emphasis on safety in the target terms, and security will be the main interests considered in the bill's contract. It is urgent that the access to the Icelandic capital is good, but it also means that the management is safe without the community being upset or Tata. The field of values is determined by the management of Iceland's national capitals. The bill does not cover general proportions, nor does the Icelandic government have anything to do with it. Iceland has been assigned the national capital. it is not excluded that more countries will be assigned to Iceland in the future. Il. section includes terms for registration agencies, general authorization, reporting of operations and the role of the registration agency. It is suggested that the operation of the registration agency be reported but not authorised, such as previous bills have been assumed. The announcement is far less burdensome than a permit, yet it ensures that the government's perspective. The requirements set for the work in this country can be considered burdensome, but some of them take into account the security issues, such as keeping the work in the country and preventing the preservation of rights and practices from being stored in a cloud or data plant abroad. The role of a registration agency is the role that the Internet in Iceland, ISNIC, has today. In III. section of the bill contains laws on the registration of domains, closed, lock and registration of the domains, police resources and rights and the duties of the rights. No changes in site registration rules have been provided for the current site registration procedures. The register is largely electronic and sets self-registered registration regulations. The minister will be able to set rules for rules that honor the rules of rules of rules but will not set the rules for registration, since there are somewhat fixed international rules for site registration. A respectable president. I'd like to say a few words specifically on regulations number III. section of the bill for resources such as closing the registered domain, dissertation, lock it, or place it in place. In the 10th. There are rules that are in accordance with ISNIC rules but that should be set in law. I call attention to the means of locking a site, which means that no domain can be moved between the courts. Resources this has become available and useful, e.g. when there is a case for the treatment of a consumer room, e.g. Based on business and market surveillance legislation, No. 57/2005. In 1 1. ... areassigned to the police. It is suggested that police be required, prior to a court order, to document the domain lid recorded under Icelandic national capital in certain cases, e.g. if the rights of the domain, his agent, or his service partner has close ties to organized violations, or uses the domain for such activities. They suggest that the police, prior to a court decision, place a hold on a registered domain, and apply it in the investigation of official cases and the collection of evidence. The above sources are very burdensome to the court and include extensive intervention. It is suggested, as mentioned, that courts are always being sought to use such instruments. Then it is important, more importantly, to appear here in relation to the rights and duties of the rights of the domains, that the rights of the court do not receive direct property on a site, but only indirect property rights, in particular what is called the personal rights of a domain. IV. section of the bill contains various laws, such as surveillance, daylight, the national capital in times of war, and the impending terrorist attack, as well as the subject of professional action. The provision of temporary I is suggested that the state funds be premiumed to all parts of the Internet in Iceland, ISNIC. This law is designed primarily to ensure that the Society will not be released from Icelandic jurisdiction, although it is assumed that the state's budget can also be used as a premium if it is intended to buy an object in INSIC. According to the bill, a premium allows a government fund to enter an offer made in the Society. However, government funds are not obliged to use the rights. It should be noted that in the countries we compare with us, registration agencies are often run as nonprofit automatons. A respectable president. I have now made clear the general subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u76	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his explanation of the bill submitted a second time. I'm wondering, what, III? section 10, in particular. ... andmostly 11. g., involved in closing, locking and recording of domains and such. This suggests that things that have been discussed in the past and may be more complicated than at first. As a matter of fact, no domains are allowed to violate the laws and the like. I think it's a bit dangerous because there are bans in Icelandic law and there's some illegal material in Iceland that's not illegal elsewhere. I'll give you two things. To the 95th. a general penalties are forbidden to slander or taunt, or how it is spoken, foreign rulers, flags of various kinds, and such. I realize that it comes from international agreements and such, but the penalty is two years, and six years if it's gross. It is turned to house websites on Icelandic domains and to encourage people to violate these laws, as I have and will do. I've done it here in a pita and I'll do it again. I've encouraged people to talk about President Donald Trump as it is supposed to be about him, i.e. In a very bad way, he's a terrible president. But my problem is that the importance of a democratic discussion is strict under ban under Icelandic law and the penalty is considerably high. As far as I can see, then, it is strictly forbidden to encourage you to speak against Donald Trump or similar brutality in other countries. The other thing may not be so important now, but I may take it in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question that may be indirect in the interpretation of the law in this field, whether through a judicial authority, as I went over, when it comes to shutting and locking, putting up, or something like that. The criticism of someone who may be critical may not necessarily be the same as promoting a crime; I agree with it. Senator. You can criticize in a grammatical way. There may be a difference between us. A senator as far as it goes, but I don't have that experience with him. So I'm not so worried about this. But in some very special instance, as a boy. A senator can certainly say, since his view is that Iceland's law is wrong and he's fighting for their corrections, it's still a law in Iceland. I point to the fact that it takes the power of the courts to go so far, because it is very important to realize that it is extremely burdensome to intervene in a way authorised by this bill. That is why it is important to have a court order behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u78	A respectable president. Actually, I'm a spokesman for the grammatical criticism. A critical criticism of some, such as The president who now doesn't sit very much anymore will just be pretty ugly before it's taken to heart. In fact, this is true of various heads of nations. But I realize that the law in Iceland is a law, even though I don't like it myself. That's why I'm worried about this. I wouldn't worry if I believed anything else. V.E.G. A minister rightly mentions the need for judicial authority. That doesn't make me feel much better because it's like the highest. A minister pointed out that the law of the land is a law of the law of the land, and in my opinion it is a failure in this regard. There's more to it than that. I realize that this is a taboo subject, and I'm probably getting tired of my teaming up in Iceland all the time, but porn is forbidden in Iceland. This is not forbidden in the countries we compare with. Actually, it's not two years of exposure to pornography in Iceland, but pornography would clearly fall under illegal material, I think. P-E-T-E-T. it shows that using a domain to share illegal material or material that encourages penalistic behavior can be a prison punishment for up to two years or more. While pornography is a subject, and it seems like who it is and all it is, I think it's important that we know what we're saying and what the consequences of our actions are here at the General Assembly. Therefore, I feel that we need to ask out loud: Does this mean that a site on a site on a site could be unencrypted? Is it a-lover, or where it belonged to Iceland in any way, if it housed pornography or illegal material of such a kind? This, of course, is a warning that the definition is very high, so that no more can be said. It is part of the problem that this is not fully defined, either by courts or by the community or by scholars. That's the problem. That's why I think it's important for me to make this clear. The question is, Is it really true that, after all, the line of punishment is not to be raised in the bill and taken out or slightly reduced to close sites on the basis of public penalties? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u79	A respectable president. Again, name your name. A senator of things that are precisely defined and assessed. Again, I refer to the need for a legal action, there is not just one person to determine whether it is a violation of criminal conduct. These issues, however, are of the nature of my view that the committee might be deeply involved and wondered at the suggestion. A senator, if he can use it instead of the text in the bill and the way it has gone. I trust the Committee to look into the matter in the case of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u80	A respectable president. First, I'd like to agree with that with the highest. Minister, I'm sure the committee will only consider the issues we were discussing in the answers, which are about the line of execution in front of the bill. But I thought it was time to come up here and discuss the bill itself. I'm also going to go out a little bit more on the points I mentioned to the highest level. Minister, in terms of closing, locking, and registration of domains, and in particular their relationship to the general penalties and various alleged defects in them, or what I think is a defect, and possibly a reason to check only with so rich sources to close, lock and record a domain on that basis. Now that I've started to talk about it, I'd like to say I understand very well that it's appropriate to be able to handle these cases of serious crimes or when you're promoting serious crimes, e.g. Crime of violence. I understand that, and I don't object. But we've got a lot of legislation that's forbidden and we've got a two-year prison sentence. For unrecognised audiences, it is in many parts of the Icelandic legislation that authorities, e.g. to close the site in this case, but also the police's authority to use various methods, often apply the line of punishment. Even if no one is sentenced to two years incarcerated over Donald Trump, the two - year penalty line, especially the upper, six - year sentence, has the effect that it activates other legal features. This presents a problem where these items are banned from the law and incarcerated to them. This in itself does not fear that people will go to prison for expressing themselves on Trump, but it is fear that legal authority will be applied where others would have been left alone. Therefore, it is important that we clean up general penalties of offenses, even if those regulations are not always carried out or carried out in an ecstatic way that we do not consider to be a major problem, as far as possible. One minister, I think, says he's quite right, that some of these are highly estimating, and perhaps especially the two points I mentioned at the top of my answers. Minister. More about that later. I'd also like to mention the Icelandic national capital structure, as one would say, in the English of the United States. Iceland is still with only one national capital, which is now. is. Not all in the technical sectors that allow themselves to be registered have agreed on how best to implement it. But I'm going to say, and I don't think that very many people disagree with me about it, that it is, in the highest degree, strange that a private firm has control over Iceland's national capital. It's the big craze. I know the discussion, and my peers coming out of that direction often ask: What is the problem? Are people unhappy with ISNIC as providers, who are too high? Is the rules not good enough? Is there not a measure of consideration for some viewpoint or such? A respectable president. I'm not gonna answer those questions here in a pita, I don't think that's quite right. But I can also say that no one would say that the service was great and all that. It is not possible for a private company in a town to always stand up to customers when it has a single position on the market. It tells itself and is independent of which companies are involved and at any market. It's a very strange situation as it is. Now, the historical explanations I've heard about it are that the state somehow lost these things through some privatization program involving the university. Actually, I do not remember that story well enough to share some responsibility, but it sounds like a huge 2001. That sounds like a lot like! com-time and stuff that went on back then, in the years of the Internet. At any rate, my point is that I believe that there is some law on Iceland's national capital. I also have to handle what is suggested on the provisional principle, which is the premium of the state of ISNIC if it goes for sale. When this case was finally made, there was a rather clear objection, including, from ISNIC's fine company as well as from Magnús Zóphaníusson and Sigríður Finsen, where the same scheme was protested and expressed that it would likely end in court. All that debate reflects what I have seen in my conversations with my peers who have opinions about this. Of course, INSIC does not feel that there is a problem. Of course, INSNIC thinks it's a great time for ISNIC. Of course, the ISNIC service is great and gets fair, of course. I'm not going to criticize any of this. I have nothing to blame for this fine company and, in fact, I have nothing but a good thing to say, at least nothing that I would sue to talk about in public. All of this must give us reason to believe that it is normal for the Icelandic nation to have some greater access to the decision - making authority around this country than to purchase a company's stock, and to be expected to have more to control something. That's not how this can work, a respectable president. I don't think it's a good idea. In this respect, I agree that there should be some law. However, the way these laws are matters. Of course, it is important, not just moral but legal, that INSNIC interests are being met. I think this premium is quite natural with them that, no doubt, courts could do it better than the person standing right here and now. But in view of the fact that this is the site that translates Iceland, I find these rich public interests needed to justify the premium, rather obvious, just very obvious. In conversations with my associates who have strong opinions about this, they often make it appear that there is some question about whether there is a public interest in it or not. I just think they're very obvious. Perhaps it can be called an obvious public interest. I'm not quite sure. But that. It's private, I think it's a little strange. I expect ISNIC to respect the view that people find it very strange. If we were setting up this service today, we would never have had it this way. This was a mistake that was made at the time, however it may be, even though the story I tried in a certain sense of irresponsibility to recall back here is corrected. Then I'm going to go back to what I mentioned in the answers to the highest. Minister, and it's come up before. At one time, a terrorist group in the Middle East called the State of Islam, known as ISIS or Daesh in Arabic, a terrible organization, a wahbian, as the government of Saudi Arabia, a utterly horrible ideologies, sudgalin, did not hold up as expected. At any rate, this terrorist organization was somewhat special in that they were extremely propagandal. It is striking, those who have examined this term of the world's folly and confusion that this type of terrorist organizations often have a very poor propaganda that seems to have no intention of reaching anything beyond the major fighters, the principal forces of hosts. But ISIS presented a highly sophisticated subject, just a well-produced image and sound substance that was well-produced, as is said in the subject. It's horrible to see it because you're afraid it'll work like this terrorist organization wants it to work. Of course, you hope that this effect will be minimal, but unfortunately we have news of something else. One of the things they did in propaganda, or some of their followers - which is, in fact, ideologically the same phenomenon, terrorist organizations do not make a great distinction between themselves and the cause, rather than al Caida and all the others - was that they recorded it. Is-loops. First, this site was closed, and it was said to be shut down on the grounds that its function was against the laws of the land. That's the first thing we heard. One down. A senator at that time, i.e. The person standing here objected for the reason that as soon as we had begun shutting down sites on the grounds that they could not conflict with the general law of penal law, or national law in general, we would be out on very high ice because of it. This would be for hosting a tissue that could be expressed. It is a fragile, fragile phenomenon when it comes to the intention of shutting down and banning, locking, and the like. You need to think things through. There was no much discussion after this until it was explained that this was more about the fact that the register was wrong. ISIS is certainly not. is rather. Is Iceland. On that basis, the domain was closed, and that is a fine, respectable president. There is no danger then that if we simply say that something illegal or forbidden is not to be held, there will be some habits that will allow the authorities or the authorities to close more or less on the basis of unconvinced authority. Is-lover. The person here was reasonably criticized at his time for protesting that it was closed, that. It would be closed on the grounds that it would violate the laws of the land. But I just remind them that the first thing I said, before I took it out, was that if it was shut on that basis. It wasn't ISIS, it was Iceland I'd have nothing to check, I'd keep up with it, and I'll keep it. It does, however, matter what basis is used for closing sites and domains and such. The leaders we put in the laws or rules of ISNIC, or whatever the way it is implemented, set an example for what should happen in the future when gray lines and ecstatic points such as how much space can be left over Trump before it becomes very serious. What exactly is pornography? Again, I apologize for being always talking about this unpleasant subject, a respectable president. But it's just that people don't agree on what pornography is at all. What only one thinks is erotic, that others are pornography. It's a problem, a respectable president, that something is forbidden, something illegal, which is not even clear what is, no matter what its nature. It is important that we be clear about what we do in homes or bans and why we do so in expression. No matter what people think about the expression themselves, they need to be clear about what we're talking about. This is not the case when it is time to get fucked over Trump and even less so when it comes to the definition of pornography. I challenge people to look into the courts of Supreme Court or theoretical discussions or general discussion or whatever, there is no agreement on what the phenomenon is and their attitudes change in a very short time. Not in a few decades but in a few years, there are suddenly other ideas about what appears to be normal, here or acceptable in other places when it comes to a sexual film that is commonly called pornography. In this respect, I have a little concern that the sources that follow the bill are about shutting down or removing them, and the like is based on only too small a line of punishment. I'd like to reexamine the forbidden status of an entourage. is-laden to share illegal material because I think it's a concept of over-explained. Likewise to me, the two - year - long line of punishment is quickly too low. But I finally agree with the highest. Minister, I expect and I hope the committee will consider this and make suggestions that may be more appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u81	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new law on rental driving for the second time. The bill was submitted to the 150th legislature and is now presented in almost unchanged form. Material changes have been made in three aspects of the bill, which I am getting in more closely afterward, as well as in which expressions have been changed from one place to another. The overall review of a taxi vehicle law began at the time by order of a team of workers to review the rules of rent cars in Iceland in October 2017. The staff returned their motions in a report to the Ministry in March 2018. The report concluded that the change in Icelandic law on rental vehicles was inevitable, including the U.S.A. Because existing laws are probably not compatible with the EEA Convention. The bill is based on a main policy of proposaling those whom the work group suggested in their report as well as the reviews received in the consultation process. Then we have developed legislation in our neighboring countries, in particular in other parts of the North. The development of the bill is due to the fact that in January 2017, the EFTA DG initiative analysis of Iceland's rental market and potential barriers began access to it. According to the Agency's interaction, there is a feeling that national legislation on the basis of rental vehicles is a potential problem that would conflict with international commitments in the state. In Norway, however, current legislation on the United States has already made a brief opinion of rent - vehicle legislation similar to that of the European Commission. The Commission concluded that the Norwegian State would violate its obligation under the EEA Convention on the establishment rights of EU citizens to start and pursue independent employment and to set up and run companies with conditions that apply to national citizens of the state of which the establishment is taking place. The bill presented here is the product of the work of the aforementioned Department of Transport and Regional Government and Association and consultation with stakeholders and the general public. Before the bill was submitted to the last legislation council, a wide open consultation with the public and the interests of the stakes was conducted. Following this discussion, significant changes in the bill were made, in line with the comments made by the manager. When the bill was for the treatment of the last legislation board, a wide-scale consultation was made with stakeholders on the European Commission of Environment and Transport. In the summer, the Ministry reviewed the narratives and produced material changes in three aspects of the bill in accordance with points received by the Committee. A law on the purpose of electronic registration of driving information has been made clearer, in the light of Peritone's indication. In accordance with the Agency's guidelines, changes were made to the consumer surveillance programme and are suggested that the Agency's surveillance take place in terms and information, not in terms of prices. Finally, changes have been made in accordance with the Bath - sheba tip, suggesting that the Agency's sources require information not only to the authorised authorities but to all who may be able to provide rental services in some form. The Agency's source to use the day-to-day noncommittee for information includes them to the same parties. The aim of the bill I recommend here is primarily to ensure a good access to a more efficient, efficient and safe vehicle service for the public in Iceland. Then the bill is designed to convey laws and rules on rent cars to modern prospects for safe and secure transport, as well as to ensure that the Icelandic state will fulfill its national commitments. If the bill is legal, they'll increase job opportunities for diverse groups. Abolition of minimum license policies is thus meant to give the gender equal bioavailability in the class. Men are much more populous than women today, but women in general are considered more likely to be part - time workers than men. There is also a violation of the rules for the applicant's permission to work for a certain number of days in order to have the opportunity to have published permission to grant those who have no personal contact with the class, it would be more possible for others to be given a leave of work. The consumers have called for the introduction of passengers to the services of their country in addition to the services of traditional rental vehicles. Nowhere in the bill is there any direct words on passengers, but by bill this, there are steps that make it possible for passengers who use modern technology to start working here on land to meet other conditions of law. It thus ensures that the views of equally competitive conditions and of choosing drivers to work for passengers who use smartness through the service must meet all conditions as those who intend to serve as taxi drivers in the standard sense. Now I'm going to explain to you some of the major newcomers and changes that are involved in this bill. The bill expects three types of traffic to be allowed. First, there is a work permit that gives humans the right to work as a taxi driver. Then the bill assumes a license that allows men to drive one cab, as well as working as a taxi driver. Finally, there is a work permit for rented vehicles. A work permit under the bill gives you the right to drive a cab without driving your own cab. It does not depend on minimal use requirements, allowing it to operate on cab vehicles whether it is the main job, the part - time job, or the detriment. The bill's license gives you the right to work as a taxi driver and to run your own cab. In this way, the Marketing Authorisation Holder does not require additional work permit. In addition to work permit, there is no license, subject to minimal use requirements. There are significant changes in legal requirements for rental stations and their licenses. It is thus assumed that the obligation of a cab driver to have a payment of a rental car ride will be removed, but the law on leave will still be passed on. It is expected that the number of budget limits allowed to drive a taxi will be removed and the area will be restricted, as this has not been determined. Sources for monitoring the operation are explained and increased from the current law. It is thus assumed that the Grouping Office will be allowed to demand the information provided by the competent authorities and others who may be able to supply a taxi service required for monitoring. The Agency's sources of disembarking are also made clearer and more effective than has been. Changes are made in the conditions candidates need to meet in order to be allowed to drive a cab, including make the candidate's record clear. Mr. President. Now I've been reviewing the key indicators of the bill. There is no time to report here all the changes contained in the bill, but it is clearly outlined in the general report. It is important that we successfully revise the law and order of a taxi vehicle. It is a code of laws that involves much of the nation, the consumers as well as the hosts of that service. That will involve many of those who stay here for a short or long time. With this bill's approval, Icelandic legislation on rent cars in my opinion fulfills the national rights of the state and contributes to the safety of passengers as well as bus drivers. Then the bill contributes to healthy competition and innovation in the article and makes conditions better for the supply of services to respond to demand. Finally, Mr. President, after 1st. if the case is referred to. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u82	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. It's important that you succeed, said the highest. Minister. I am deeply concerned that we are now going to eliminate multiple restrictions in this article. The reason to limit the number of jobs is still relevant to my judgment, and we see that comparable methods are used in other areas to ensure the benefit of those working there and that can be done there, for example. They include farming systems and fishing roads. Anxiety and limitations have a purpose. They are tools that are needed to ensure the foundation of a fixed operation, and without limit, it may be estimated that a large number of cab cars will double in a short period of time. In Iceland, there are not millions of people, and there are not thousands of cabs, like those in some major cities. The market here is far more fragile than in countries around us, and we can see, for example. now it's very difficult for cab drivers to find out about Covid-19. I'm not saying that, but it's gotta be very careful with my judgment on putting down the maximum number of jobs. I think it's a matter of irresponsibility and concern. I'd like to hear from the highest. Ministers whether it has been carefully reviewed the experience of other nations, e.g. correspondent in Sweden Sweden has had a very bad experience by allowing everyone in the article to be cut off on restrictions on licenses several years ago. For example. has been seen in these examples and how the comments of the Front Society have been handled. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I ask, "Did I not listen to the views of a member of the community who knows very well in this article when the important aspect of this matter was discussed? " [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u83	A respectable president. First, I'd like to mention that this is the one that is considered to violate the national commitment. The changes that have been made in other countries may be here in Iceland, compared with Sweden in particular, most limited. In particular, what has been going on in the North countries has been followed well, so that in Denmark the changes seem to have caused no upset. In Norway a new rule has not come true. In Finland, the number of the service decreased quite a long way, but it increased, and changes have been made because of their radical changes. That's what we're not doing here. It is true to guess what I think few people may realize that there are only mass restrictions in Akureyri, the area of the Aarhus, the capital area, and the Southnes. Somewhere else in Iceland, there's no restrictions. In Denmark, however, some restrictions may be set up in just a very large rural area to ensure minimal service. No such messages came from rural society or Iceland's national organization, but I'd say it might be considered quite a matter of view. It may be allowed to limit the establishment rights to ensure continuous service in certain diffuse areas, but not in areas where there are restrictions today. But I encourage the committee to examine the other, whether it is possible to place some restrictions on the scattered territory, to ensure that at least some service there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u84	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. He noted that this is one of the European Economic Areas. I think it's important to see that these are not the same conditions as in foreign cities, as I mentioned earlier. I believe the rules that have been taken here in the country of the distribution of industry have given us a great deal of experience, so to speak, Mr. President. I think that's a fair way because those who really want to do this job can easily start driving, such as meddlers, and those who are the most industrious there get permission until those who only want to do this part-time work. Another factor about the arrangements we have here is how easy it is to filter out those who have no business in the field, and that is also important. I'm afraid, Mr. President, this will be an opportunity to push the basis off those who have this full-time job today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Some 600 families live by this trade. [[The president calls.]] Once the number of allowed allowed has increased, you will see that it becomes less for the others. [[The president calls.]] I think the committee must be very careful about this aspect of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u85	A respectable president. I forgot to mention it in a previous answer, but it's certainly related to that later, that the bill is based on the work of a staff representing a cab driver, and, of course, a statement from the Front. But the reason why these changes are being started is that our current laws likely violate our national commitments, as stated in Norway. The situation in Iceland is said to be special, but, of course, there are areas in other countries where they are also. I agree with what. A senator that, of course, is a very serious situation because of Covid at the moment, but we're also putting laws in the past. We'll probably get out of Covid's class, and then maybe there'll be something else. Then it may be helpful to have arranged modern laws that look at all these factors, including those working in the article, to make sure that all are at the same table. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u86	Mr. President. We're here for a bill to legalize a taxi drive that, like the highest. There was a minister in charge of the 150th Council. The bill was referred to an environment and transport committee and received several coverages. Of course, this is a deep - seated profession and an important service being performed in the public service, and it is natural that it should change in pace with its time. Times are changing a little fast, both travel habits, employment practices, leisure activities, and the way people live. I wanted to kill on one or two items of the bill, where there are 24 articles. This raises questions, either privileges for Ministers to set regulations or for Ministers to set regulations. They are, I think, 16 or 17 of them, with this law, where a minister is allowed, or he shall set up a Regulation. What does that tell us about the law? I think it's a little loose in the ropes. Six. says that each station should have a work station. It's not defined any more. This is not a rental car station. It's mentioned in 12. gr., and that at least Keep there all basic business documents that concern the business, they should be stored and available. Are we just talking about one decent computer and one mailbox, if that's the case? There is also no requirement for any other equipment in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u87	A respectable president. It is true, it is mandatory to set regulations on the other hand and on the other hand, to form a form in the issue of halting. We've got to cancel the issue and it's, like, an option. The difference between what it's like here or in Denmark, there can be one car on a station. It is a restricted law, but it is not mandatory. The person may then have some station, but he needs to be able to collect this information, such as any other one. Whether one computer is good enough, I expect a firm one. The exact details must be stated in the Regulation any items that are needed to be provided for the Grouping Office so that the function can be monitored. Then there is the overlap with the issue. In many cases I think, it's just my opinion, that people will choose to work together, cooperate, and cooperate with each other in sharing the fixed costs; market and extracurricular activities. But it won't be necessary, as it is today. But I have faith that many will choose that course, and that is why the law has arranged for permission to be released for such stations. That is exactly the difference between those who have their own work station.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u88	I thank the Minister for the answer. In the 9th. it is the law of ordinances and prices. This cannot be understood as different from a legal fee in all rented rental vehicles. True, there are exceptions, when service is sold in advance of the scheduled beginning and end. What is it, and what are these exceptions? Are they clear enough? There, you see, the views of the passengers and the standard services are understood, where passenger transportation does not necessarily have currency in its cars, as far as I can get the best of it. The nominees from paybacks have some in the law. What, then, are they? Is that about the limousines? Is that some kind of group drive? This needs to be clear because it's a success. The network believes that this will not be available to their services if they are keeping the obligation to stress, as far as I'm next available, and understood by our guests at the Committee on Environment and Transport. If a minister would like to say a few words about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u89	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my history, there is no mention of passengers in this bill. They are not being discussed. However, general management conditions are being discussed. That doesn't rule out passengers, meet other requirements of the law. Regarding the matter of currency or execution, although those who sell rent are expected to offer a service that takes into account the increased distance or the time when it needs to be reimbursed. But if you've already negotiated a price, e.g. By means of a tour, a tour, or a way that has been negotiated in advance and by modern technology can prove that it is also a binding agreement by the law. This is true of the gray areas today involving limousines and such objects, trying to explain these gray areas so that you can compete on a natural basis, and especially the tenants who often carry a sharp object from a table to today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u90	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Pre-historic transport minister. There are two questions I would like to direct to the highest level. Minister. First, whether or not, in view of the situation in the community; a travel service crash and the cab driver's recovery is all the other way out of the way - although it may not have always been a reason to cry out in the local community, it is particularly bad at this time - whether it has actually been considered to delay the donation of the bill, saying not to suggest it while living in this so - called Covid situation. However, I would like to ask the highest. A minister of how he values the position of those in his daily conversation called harpoons, compared with the position of the group with which he has the right to drive today, that bill accepted as available.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u91	A respectable president. I agree with what. Of course, a senator's position with taxi drivers, or those who perform such services today, is very sad, as is true of very many other classes who rely on greater social activity and, especially, foreign tourists. Therefore, the results of the operation are very sad today. Of course, we all hope and expect that we are dealing with a temporary situation, that it will change. It's like I said to myself, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really? A judge in charge of the same discussion may want to know that we are dealing with the legal process. Of course, we can delay validation until this is a normal condition, or otherwise a validation. But I think it's important that we deal with the long-term environment. That's what we do in so many other parts of the community. We deal with the Covid problem as it appears to us, but we're also dealing with moving forward in time. I certainly hope that the bill will explain the legal status of those who are granted employment licenses and employment licenses to work in the employment sector, and there will be others outside the framework, whether by employment license or by license, who will be accepted. That is why the situation of those who have real employment in such a business and who have permission behind them will be better than it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u92	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to explain a little more clearly to the vision that the current cabby's position, which is allowed today, will be even better by the sentence of these laws. All the details of the cab drivers and cab drivers last year were that cab drivers, in fact, said to be a little worried about their ability to operate in these laws, as they are available. I'd be the highest. To go a little deeper into the way he sees himself running a cab driver, as we know today, improved by the introduction of these rules?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u93	A respectable president. I hope that in the case of the Committee, people will point out that these laws are good for them, that they will meet the objectives set, including those given. for security, efficiency, and equality that are important and that will make people's situation at least no worse than it is today. Of course, we are afraid of what happens. For example, the question has been asked: Why does this activity need the protection of being restricted? Some have had a hard time setting things up. As I mentioned here today, there is one reason why the fall is from obligation to have this extravagance work. Today, men are in more part than when the law takes effect, and part - time jobs are also easier to do. The number of days behind them does not need to be allowed as in the current system. [[The president calls.]] So there will be more people who stand equal in the system, and of course they fear what is in the system. [[The president calls.]] The U.S. Contestance Commission believes that all others in independent employment have to sit at such an open table. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And why not there, too? [[The president calls.]] How else will we keep our international commitments?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u94	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A secretary of transportation back to the history of the case earlier. I may not have been surprised to learn that the matter was at the U.S. Constitution. A minister before winter, but I'm surprised to learn that it is fully proposed in the first few days of the council. This must underscore the great burden of enforcing the rule of last year on the basis of a similar statement. Of course, this case is going to come back into an environment and transport committee, and we committees are going to go through it in detail. But I just wanted 1st. to remind you of the tremendous caution stakes on the effectiveness of this law, as it has now been proposed. They can be heard not only from the Renal Driver's Associations and Friends but also from e.g. The groups of disabled, blind, visually impaired people, and others who have enjoyed the outstanding service of tenants for years and decades, who are deeply concerned about the system, especially when the class is the most vulnerable. I noticed that the highest. A minister introduced the possibility that there could be something to do and that the execution might be delayed. But I have to say, it's not a technical thing. This is not a matter that the Senate should pass on, based on the continuation of a significant loss of effect. I think it's far more important that we allow ourselves to defend our good and powerful trade of a taxi driver who has the service for decades and years. We see the development that led to development in Finland, where this development is being reassigned. I'm afraid we have this order, as it is now, to sacrifice a whole class of strong men and women who do their job well, with great integrity, offer good service and security, and are actually in and out of business much more than simply moving passengers to save their money. I am concerned that the basis for this service will be cut off from those who render it today by this order. And with that in mind, we are under obligation to hurry. Thus, as with many other factors, change is desirable and for the better. We cannot put ourselves in the position of driving this case through the council. I'm concerned that the early nature of this statement is in order to make sure that this will not be the case with the council, since, of course, everyone is confronted with the issue, much in various councils. Two cases at the Government Constitution, of those that can be expected to come to the Environment and Transport Committee, are most surprising to me. This, on the other hand, is the case with the legalizing of rural unions. I would have thought both cases wisely to the highest degree. Minister on stage one to two steps back, allowed cases to evolve through the winter with the cab drivers, allowed this Covid situation to go away, and in fact, I would have considered it reasonable to the highest degree. A ministerial servant would take special precautions for the remarkable class of cab drivers. But in the other case, when compared, there is no need to wait for the development of Covid or anything like that. It's just that, in my opinion, it's a bad case, no matter which direction it's come from, or how it's looked at. But, like last year, I'm just waiting for the case to happen. The environment and transport committee where it is properly treated and will, of course, be considered with fairness and careful management of all members of the Committee. The commission represents a greater part of the representatives of the government groups, so if it is determined by the government's will to drive the case through, it is evident that there is the power to do so, both here in the council room and to complete the case on a committee. But I hope we have a success in winning the case and that the result will be as good as it can be for the country and the country, and especially the cab drivers of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u95	A respectable president. Right at the end of the discussion, such as not much of a discussion, I wanted to come up here and put together that, of course, this is not a new act of order, as it was claimed, but a commitment already valid according to the EEA Convention. Actually, I know why. A senator, and a w. People who are opposed to these things might enjoy challenging them, and that would be all right. I remind you, however, that all the North countries have gone that way. And since Finland was mentioned here, it is true that they went very far and basically threw everything away. That's not what we're doing, and I believe that coming Finns back will be close to a change similar to what we're doing here. And what are we doing? Yes, there are safety concerns to improve loyalty to this bill, both for passengers and for car drivers, on the requirements for the disposition of the donors, and for the increased monitoring of the activities, including To demand the current cab driver. Therefore, I believe that their position will be better in the past. I know of the mail I've been given today, but it's not a license to compete with those who have the license. Of course, I trust the committee will do well. The reason for this is clearly stated is that the issues presented here during the first few days are issues made in spring, made small changes, and are ready for contributions. It is only good that the council and its committees have plenty of time to discuss the matter. This does not include the priorities of the government or mine in the matters that I focus on during the winter but, rather, are the main issues available for us and are, of course, still clear in the first days of the council when it begins again after summer leave.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u96	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the construction law. The bill suggests adjustments in the laws of monumental structures that depend on the simpler and more efficient construction administrations. The bill suggests that the classification of workers will be implemented on the basis of the scope and nature of the workers, proposed to require the loss of the construction agent's ability to perform the task, and that the arrangements for official monitoring should be reviewed, as well as that the role of an electronic construction administration should be explained and promoted. The bill was in the Senate for the last assembly, and it was distributed at the General Assembly on June 23, but it was not completed before the end of the council. The bill remains unchanged in every subject, but minor adjustments have been made in its wording. A respectful president, the subject of this bill, is that the government set it up as one of its objectives in a government conspiracy from November 30, 2017, to improve the status of young and earners of a housing market. That, in fact, is what the Bible The government will take measures that will lower the threshold of young people and that will cut down the housing market. In this respect, public support systems will be reviewed so that support will be used primarily to those groups. It should also be noted that in the ensuing of the collective agreements of the winter of 2018-2019, the government set up an up-to-date set up an increasing set-up in the apartments and other measures to improve the status of the housing market, allowing the government to initiate broad agreements on housing with the establishment of the collective body of the labour market, local society, Social Ministry, finance, and the Ministry's Presidency. The campaign group provided suggestions for seven groups in a total of 40 joints with a report published in January 2019. They were presented in accord with a declaration of government support for biographies signed in April 2019. It should be noted that the government will work on the implementation of a host of housing initiatives in agreement with the labour market partners and with the Member States and that the Substitution Fund of the European Commission, the current Housing and Civilization Organization, will be assigned to keep out of the follow-up of the work group in consultation with the Social Ministry, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Ministers, the Transport and Civil Affairs, and the Environment and Resource Ministry. It's been promised Hussein for everyone. The bill is made up of a legal committee set up in February last year, and it was designed to consider the part of the group's initiative to expand the provision of apartments and other measures to improve the construction status of the building market. The construction site, a cooperative administrative site and other stakeholders, gave its first proposal to make changes in November 2019, with the objective of working out parts of the campaign group's plans for January 2019. Parts of the construction site are Houses and Engineers Institutes, Industrial Organization, Iceland's New Creation Center, Government Management, the Union of Iceland and Organization. The building site even made suggestions. until it was necessary to promote and improve the activities of electronic administration in all processes in order to improve efficiency and transparency. It would be important to introduce electronic and electronic signatures in all processes. The suggestions were designed to reduce waste, to promote and simplify monitoring as well as to simplify building projects. It was suggested that the inclusion of workers would be stratified according to their scope and nature, to the role of other colonies, in order to simplify and enhance the monitoring of human activities and to make it more efficient. Such a category could also be used to shorten an application procedure for specific projects, such as simpler projects. Such a change will make it easier to monitor the activities of humans and to identify where to increase and increase monitoring is needed. The Law Committee built the subject of the bill on the building site proposal. A respectable president. In recent years much has been discussed about the need to reduce construction costs, and the monitoring factor has been specifically mentioned in this context. Increased monitoring of performance is necessary, but at the same time, costs and time of monitoring need to be minimised. With a change in the law of monuments made over two years ago, by law No. 64/2018, were stepwise to simplify the monitoring by increasing the internal monitoring of the construction manager and providing them with the implementation of target checkups. The structure protocol has also been modified for this purpose taking into account the size, size and risk of individual activities in evaluating the frequency of staging. By introducing groups of workers into a building order, such assessments and harmonizations can be adopted throughout the country. The classification of anthropographers may also be used for simple regulations in the process of permission. The bill suggests that the following changes in the ministries will be made: First, it is suggested that a minister with a Regulation be stipulation by size, size, stage, purpose of use and community importance, with the aim of adapting the application procedure and monitoring to the nature and scope of implementation. The process of building application and administration can be simplified in smaller and simpler tasks by making different demands on the size and nature of the projects you are applying for. Thus, the process can become simpler and shorter, with less monitoring, for the structures considered to be minor, but more detailed, with increased monitoring, for the mechanisms of complexity and community importance. Second, the electronic interpretation of design data and electronic signatures and agreements by application procedure as well as the electronic delivery of man - made data will be responsible for the principle of a building permit and the use of the building instructions for the Homing and Civilization Agency. This is an important factor in achieving government aims to reduce waste by promoting data, electronic signatures, and electronic communication. Third, it is suggested that the construction officer's office and the Homing and Mobilization Agency be recognized as being 19. The law, let them be taken away. In most areas, rural society has thought that large expense increases include a requirement for the proficiency of the license team and, along with the representatives of the sector, suggest that it would be preferable to inspect projects to independent experts, such as an engineering clinic. Code 19. Idola), No. 160/2010, about the professionality of the license team, has been in the building of monuments from their taking. The review and assessment of the work site would be expected to be carried out by the competent partners in accordance with the guidelines of the telegraphs, either by a professional laboratory or by the structurally qualified men who would have been employed for such follow-up. The law has not been accepted, and the Union has been a member of Icelandic rural society along with a member of the construction worker, including According to the evidence that rural communities consider their estimated cost to be due to their professional values, the evaluation of the effects of the law has been seriously underestimated. There are several stakeholders who have suggested that there is neither a simple administrative and surveillance requirement nor a lower structural cost. In accordance with current law, rural society has the advantage of providing parts of the construction watch to a professional observatory in accordance with Article 20. The law, by the way, avoids the expense of the private espionage of the offices. To date, however, no research agency has been hired to care for such projects, so construction agents cannot assign other designs under the current legal framework. This may, in fact, have created quite a challenge for large projects involving thousands, and it is clear that the construction services have no knowledge or volume to care for that. If they then have had to consult other observers, despite the absence of such a warrant in the law. Thus, it is necessary to find a solution that enables the rural communities to hide workers outside the building agency's review of design tools to meet certain conditions. It should be noted that this solution is not final, with the proposed global review of the activities under construction procedures, but it has been noted that the wide demand of the Rapporteur's practice will lead to more complex management and increased costs for the construction industry. I've decided to have a comprehensive consultation with all professionals. The conclusion of this review must be considered prior to the end of 2020. It is also that the classification of workers can also be used to simplify the surveillance process and therefore it would be preferable to work together with review of the surveillance systems in building a Regulation on the classification of activities. A respectful president, with the bill, takes steps in helping to simplify and more efficient regulations in the construction industry. The electronic management will increase efficiency and transparency and reduce the cost and scope of the construction agent's administration. It is then likely that construction costs will be reduced by simple and targeted monitoring carried out by the government rather than by a professional laboratory. In larger and more complex jobs, construction agents are expected to have the authority to offer a special review, thus providing the best benefits of such management at the least cost. A respectable president. I have considered the key points of the matter discussed here. After the discussion that lies ahead, I suggest that the bill be referred to. General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u97	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Department of Social Affairs for your history. It is a pleasure to receive a view in the context and in the Committee on Environment and Transport when comparable issues, which included the legal regulations taken away here, were taken care of. Then the commission stressed the simplifying, doing so - I'm not using the word efficient, I'm just being insane. Of course, it does not make sense to equalize the surveillance of giant buildings, such as Land Hospital and Darp, because the two projects are listed in a report, and then by house to house. So on the first tour of this, it seems to me that there are a lot of positive things that I hope to do. the welfare committee button or at least that she would not step back in her stand, since the tribunal has now been moved from the Environment Minister to the welfare minister. So there is another committee that deals with the matter today. But I wanted to ask the highest. Minister, in view of the need to make a major effort to ensure that construction and construction in general will become the most practical way in which the work takes place toward the regular environment of the maning sector that OECD is working. My understanding was that it was merely to look for practical, simple regulations in that work. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister where that work is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these speculations and comments. And, yes, I think these are some of the good changes we make here, and they're part of our overall construction and construction operations. Other bills have come in here. The dividends we agreed on in the fall were also part of these packages. Here are the upcoming rent laws, then the part we brought in, and it's a simple rule of action and assembly of workers. As for the OECD report, which has been reviewing the workers and regulations part in cooperation with the Icelandic government, let's say, in total final meters. In fact, it was to introduce it publicly last week, but there were problems with OECD experts who had done this job and planned to come here to introduce it. Because of the disease prevention, Covid-19 and the social situation, it has not been successful. Hope is that it can become the first, the first. However, the government agrees that there are many practical suggestions that could be extended without the time to go over them. But I believe that it will be done in public discussions, in discussions here at the General Assembly and at the council when that report comes in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u99	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a union law, no. 80/1938, but the changes in question apply only to the laws of the law of society. The bill was written in the Department of Social Affairs by a committee arranged to respond to the comments of the European Council on corruption, GRECO, of March 28, 2013, and to support the arrangement under the order of the judges of Social Social Affairs. The Committee appointed representatives from the labour market organisations as well as the Department of Social Affairs and Economic and Economic Affairs. Despite the fact that the Commission was merely intended to make some adjustments in the order of a social judge, the Commission felt that it was also necessary to make other changes in the laws of the law required by social law, where little changes were made in that order from the law's law's sentence in 1938. With the bill, there's also some. proposed an adjustment to the order of judges in the social court in line with the proposals of the Committee. Does the change make it more important to ensure the independence and impartiality of social matters from today's levels, while the speciality of the judgment is maintained against public courts. It is suggested that the minister ship five judges in the social court. Of these five judges, it is assumed that the Supreme Court names three, including the president and the vice president of the court, and that they are all appointed untimely. At that time, two judges are still assumed to be designated by the National Association of Employment and the National Association of Iceland for three years at a time, but it is assumed that a minister will take the formal order. Furthermore, the requirement for the general social Court is to be increased from today on, but according to the current law, there is a considerably lower requirement for a judge of Social Social Affairs than there is for a judge in general courts. This is important, since socialization is final and will not be appealed to other courts. In this regard it is suggested that the judges appointed by the Supreme Court be appointed judges at the National Court, or district courts, while performing the office of judges in social affairs. There is also evidence to suggest that the requirements for the suitability of the judges designated by the Allied Union of Iceland and the increasing number of employment organizations from the present day on. There are also other adjustments aimed at improving the effectiveness of Social Affairs and the clarity of the laws of the law required by the court. A respectable president. Socialization plays an important role in judging the labour market court. So it is vital that we have confidence in the judgment and for those sitting there, a state of workforce. I believe that the changes presented here have fallen to increase this trust even further, but, as noted, the bill is working closely with the labour market organisation. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. After this discussion has been completed, the General welfare committee of the International Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u100	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct the conversion of writers. These changes are relevant to the limitations of authors' private rights for the benefit of individuals with visual or reading impairment. The purpose and purpose of the bill is to conform to the rules of the Author's Law on the manufacture and use copies of the author-secure protected work on available forms for those who are visual or read impaired, to the international rules on this subject, and to ensure that such copies can be used between the EEA countries and other Member States of the 2013 International Convention, which is commonly referred to as the Marine Convention. It aims to facilitate the bioavailability of those who are blind, visually impaired, or who have other printing inhibitions to produce tasks. The bill thus aims to prepare Iceland's membership to the Marakess Treaty as well as to introduce the EU Directive from 2017 which deals with the legal use of copyrighted jobs and related rights for blinds, visual acuity or those who deal with other printing restrictions. The main subject of the bill is: The bill suggests the current regulations of Article 19. Author song, on the limitations of authors' exclusive rights for those who cannot use plain printed material for reading, will be modified according to the Maress Convention's directives to facilitate the bioavailability of those who are blind, visually impaired, or deal with other printing restrictions on doings and EU directives on the same topic. It is suggested that the code of the authors be placed in five new articles, Article 19. a to the 19th grade. e relating to the production of documents of author-based work on available forms for those with visual or reading impairment. In these new articles, first of all there are definitions of terms, secondly regulations on who can do such copies and who can use them, third of which are authors' improvements, and fourth of all regulations for the activities of approved units that have the authority to do copies on the basis of the restriction. The rules for living should ensure that copies made on the basis of them do not belong to people who have visual or reading impairment, as well as to ensure the availability of information on the type and use of such copies. The new law does not include a change of 19th paragraph. Current Author-shaped in other ways than that it is proposed to use copies prepared in the Member States of the Marine Convention and Member States under the limitations currently available in the 19th Article. Here on the land and vice versa. It is important that such use is clearly stated between countries, since one of the main principles of the author's rule is that copies produced based on the limitations of authors' exclusive rights must be used only in the limited country. Therefore, it is important to coordinate the limitation in all countries where such copies are to be used and to ensure that such copies can be clearly used in accessible forms made based on limitations in other EEA countries and in the Member States of the Marine Convention. Thus internationally, the bioavailability of those with visual or reading impairment is determined to increase the amount of material available to them, from abroad to abroad. In this regard, in 2016, the World Health Organization reported that there were about 285 million people who had visual or reading impairment, while only 1◯7% of the world's books were available for those individuals. The Maress Convention, the directive and also this bill are aimed at increasing the share of available materials in order to ensure the availability of those involved in visual or reading impairments and to enable them to make free use of printed material. Other changes have to do with the format and definition of the author's restricted law due to private design and distribution of tasks for those with visual or reading impairment in accordance with the Treaty and the Directive, as well as minor changes to the other aspects of the author's law, to reflect new regulations, Article 19. 100 IU/ml These changes should enhance our understanding of the limitations and how they are applied. The bill was prepared with wide consultations with stakeholders, as well as with the bill articles in consultations where everyone had the opportunity to make comments. Major stakeholders were also met, i.e. The representatives of the Sound Library, representatives of authors and representatives of publishers, as is more closely reported in a general paper with the bill. A respectable president. The bill I recommend here includes an important agreement between author-shaped rules and the use of authorly protected jobs on available forms for those who are sight or reading impaired, with international rules on that subject. This agreement should ensure increased availability of available materials, especially foreign materials, in the country and in the EEA and in all Member States of the Marine Convention. The report on the bill covers the background of the bill, the content of the International Convention and the Directive, general reasons for the proposed changes, as well as the points of the bill for itself and the potential merits of comment beyond what I have covered in my speech. A respectable president. After that, I suggest that the bill be after 1st. Pointed to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u101	President. I couldn't let it pass for me to come up here and celebrate the fact that this bill has been released. I'm going to confess to myself, and hope it doesn't come to my head, that I haven't read entirely everything that stands in this great and good bill. I will, of course, do so before we continue our work. But I just wanted to state that it is happy that the bill has appeared, but not before, because the group that uses this service, those with vision or reading impairment, has long been waiting to get the rights that this would give him. For our little nation, it is of utmost importance that we be part of this large context. So I come up here to commend a minister for putting the matter forward, and I look forward to coping with it during a conquistador treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-13-8.u102	A respectable president. I'm going to start by mentioning what I've mentioned sometimes here before. I know how to make lyrics. I know how to create software. I know how to make music. I'm raised by a moviemaker and a musician. I sometimes pretended to have grown up in a studio, which isn't quite true, but I used to be a lot of studios and studios and that sort of thing. I don't know anything and I don't have much interest in anything that doesn't have any authority to do with it in any way. I specifically mention this because when it comes to authorial rights, there is a tendency in the interest of those stakeholders who defend rights, making it appear that all criticism of writers is somehow insensitive to the minds of those who create ideas and, on the other hand, lack of understanding of author rights. In fact, the latter is usually only right because, unlike what we learn about stealing and lying when we are young, in normal parenting, we do not learn much about the rights and the like, or what the natural payments are, why it is illegal to copy already available material. Why can it not be copied and given to the whole world, as Jesús would give bread? the child would ask, and that was the case with this child here. National rights are the nature of the phenomenon designed to create market conditions based on a particular business model for imaginations to flourish. It's the theory. It's the scan behind the brainstorm. By using the rights of authors and limiting people's ability to perform multiple ideas, we actually create a lack. Out of the shortage, people are ready to pay for a copy of the work. It's a basic theory. Then, of course, there are plenty of exports and complications in this arrangement, as you would expect. But as I said, we get drunk and learn from parents and friends and family that there are certain things we shouldn't do. We shouldn't steal, we shouldn't take other people's possessions, we shouldn't fool people, we shouldn't lie, we shouldn't hurt people, we shouldn't do all kinds of things. But when it comes to authoritarian rights, questions arise over and over, where the answers are not as obvious. It is only natural, then, that the World Council transmits reviews where stakeholders point out that people don't understand one or another in authoritarian rights, as to why they should not take into account the needs of disabled persons. Happily, we live in a world in which they are sometimes taken into account, as is the characteristic of this good matter, which I support with the same warning as what is. A senator who spoke before. I haven't read it from cover to cover, but I listened to a talk at the highest. Minister and only know the matter from its background, the Maress covenant and all that. But there is another comparable issue that was presented to the last council by question. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson, for the Gang of the People, who I hope will be submitted again. It's about 13. Authorized, but this bill doesn't deal with it. It's about the right property owner to change houses despite authorship. Five comments were received on the subject during the last assembly, which can be summed up in a very simple way; the main point of all of them was at the beginning. A traveler didn't understand authorly, it'd be a terrible thing for writers to do. Now it might be easy to ask who understands the situation. A senator who deals with physical disability and who has many experiences of problems with physically disabled people, as he put it, not once, not twice, not three times, but repeatedly, because protesters think they're protective of the authors. I was shocked. I sat out here in the hall and came up in answer and asked why. A senator if I had understood him correctly, I was so shocked by this ridiculous reality. When it comes to an author's right, you should stop being surprised to hear something absurd, for it happens regularly. This is because the right of an author is the means of creating an artificial map. If we build a business model that's different, and in some articles we do it actually, it's not automatic to the interests of those who create ideas that their contents are multifold wild and crazy. I myself write software that I spread wild and crazy and wish more people would use it. In fact, making it mostly during my spare time these days. I won't lose anything of that. I'll make an end of it. I'll mean, see what my colleagues have to say about it. As a result of this matter's discussion, I thought it best to come up here and mention that it is absolutely appropriate, it is not radical, it is not reckless, it is not an annulable thing, to question the authorly and to complain about it when it prevents us from making use of our possessions in any way we want or enjoy our freedom in another way.
