ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u1	Hv. All council members. Last Saturday, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson re-elected Iceland's president for the upcoming election period beginning August 1. The President of Iceland is under the constitution of another legislature of the legislature and is therefore a significant and significant communications associate between the European Parliament and the President of Iceland. I wish on behalf of the Generals Th. Jóhannesson's Guðni happiness in reelection and the overwhelming support he received. I'll send him and his family congratulations as we continue to expect the continued good cooperation of the Allied Parliament and the President of Iceland. I ask the Senate to say what I say by rising from my seats. [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u2	There's a letter from the procurator of the Independence Party for the matter. 1st. Smoke. s., Sigríður Á. Andersen, and w. 1st. Smoke. N., Gullill Þórðarson, will be absent in the near future. Today, therefore, members of the General Assembly, who served as officers for the 1st, are members of the Independence Party list in the districts, Hildur Sverrisdóttir, and Albert Guðmundsson. Both of them have previously taken their seats at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u3	So on April 1 and April 15 and 16, the program was distributed, and the deadline is not yet up to 3 mg. Thirty-seven. Parliamentary conditions, i.e. So called a five-day rule. So it is important to vote for a part of the program. There is now a debate on the subject - or just not at all. Now the vote system has been completely started. [[Did you just say, "Preservation"?]] The President proposes that we use handouts like this for fun once. Those who vote for the wild vote will do so well and give a sign. The variants are accepted with all paid votes, that is an overwhelming majority of support.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u4	A respectable president. We're here to vote for cooperation on road projects called PPP projects. We in the Central Group would like to maintain it and criticize the fact that there are more than one bill here at the council right now at the end of the council, where, in all cases, one or another taxation is being proposed. We believe that it would have been wise and necessary to suggest that there had been a transfer from a financial minister and transport minister before these decisions are made. We in the Central Party are all the projects listed there, but for the sake of this matter, we are expected to have a share of financing involved in the payment of the funds. That's just the point of view. At the same time, however, it is seen that payoffs prepared within the transport contract of the capital area will be solved by the transformation of Kingdom interests. At the Central Party, we do not vote on this matter at this time, but it is also important that lines have to be placed on how the deposit will be implemented to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u5	President. In this regard, a transport strategy is being implemented, which is a support for setting priorities in the country's professional transport activities in terms of safety and other viewpoints. Six projects are taken out, and private agencies authorized to finance them, that is the justification by this. This is something that the Independence Party has, of course, wanted to do for a very long time, to do personal work, and to take a price from those who use the roads. This is what they get here because of the highest. It seems that the secretary of transportation is not strong enough to make sure that the funds needed to build up the road system, even if it is in the Treaty that the budget should be set for the construction of roads. Some of the projects would still have been on a transport program, but as soon as these projects are taken out of a transport program when it is approved today, they have been locked out for three years. It's got to go this way. As a result, people have to pay for the roads. It is said that there are ways to go and ways to walk. [[The president calls.]] But where do these projects come from in order of building up, in a future transport program? [[The president calls.]] Very close because the other way is there. They're going to drown. People will have to pay more. FIB says 33% more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u6	Mr. President. We in the Middle East support increased transport projects, but we do not like the implementation that the government is coming here with one bill and the case of government after another in terms of charges that are, in fact, completely unattracted. We stress that tax charges will not be submitted unless there is a reduction in the lives of others and that the sum of roads is far more available than there is here. That there will be a mass impact and that this case will be clear to the nation before it will be submitted in that form as here. However, it also stands to wonder that in the capital area, a large amount of projects should be funded by government sales, including the Netherlands and possibly the Bank of Iceland, to finance and deposit large amounts of money to the city line, while this is supposed to happen on land, and that deposit on the Sunway is also in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u7	Mr. President. This so - called cooperative approach is an important addition to the transport program. As everyone knows, this effort is to speed up projects by using a similar funding method as it was found to be effective in the construction of the Havenavjörður tunnel. This is the government authority, the Roadmaker, for negotiations with investors, pension funds, or other, in six distinct projects. They are all designed to bring benefits to road users greater than moderate taxpayers. The key point is that, after the contract period, the project is the property of the state. I encourage everyone. Senators to support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u8	A respectable president. This is how we're going to raise taxes and add curses to the population. This is how we move assignments to the contractors who have to finance themselves with far more adverse loans than a government fund could possibly do. V.E.G. The minister of finance has repeatedly found that government funds are in a very good position to get so lucrative, if you can say that, and less expensive loans than goes and goes. We know that by means of what is now going to happen, the water will be more expensive. We know there's no roof on what you can charge in. We know that we are looking for the next 30 years, and we know that it doesn't matter if people don't have 220,000 bucks. Exploited, it has to pay just as much to travel around as everyone else. A group of people cannot support such construction efforts, which we really feel are holes in. Despite the need to speed things up and so forth, we wanted the government fund to take care of it by its practical loans, instead of bringing it all into the arms of Icelandic taxpayers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u9	A respectable president. We're here to vote on a very important matter, which is a cooperation project on the road. I'm on it. It is a part of great innovations and major projects ahead of us in transportation. Important projects are being rushed, which are part of a transport program and become part of a transport program. The law is being created for more precise planning, more precise screening, and advising of these projects. There is a basis for providing for the future and for continuing to work on it. We can never explain the future. We must be ready to meet her as she comes to us and prepare for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u10	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the council for completing this important matter. We've been looking all the ways to expand our projects in the country, both with large sums of money from the state's funds, in fact, to borrow it, but also to look for other ways. Which way is this? The bill is a source, and it is designed to allow the council to decide what will be implemented, but the authority is in place. What is the pattern? Yes, it is the Hagular tunnel model, and that is what has occurred worldwide. Especially have we looked at the Norwegians who have been able to do this along with innovation, to reduce prices by up to 20% on projects being carried out. That's the way we're going, and I think the people of the country understand exactly what we're talking about. The benefits are always available for the person who chooses to take the new route when it is completed, and no currency begins earlier. It'll always be cheaper than going the old way, it saves money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u11	President. There is an example of how to set the priorities of road projects and the box entitled Transport Plan. It has laws and laws can be fixed if they do not reflect these six projects. There are three of them in the highest district. Transport and Regional Ministers. Why should these six projects be carried out? It is only a political decision made by the Minister at the council that leads the council to agree that he is a minister of the seminaries and that he can get away with it under the cover of his majority cooperation. Why should these six projects be carried out rather than others? There are laws on priorities in the country. A minister is just getting his way by taking these six projects out of a transport plan and, yes, this will cost more in the end. A minister may say: In the end, people will pay less because they do not go the same way. But as a minister says, some of them are in a transport program. You could have gone that way instead of charging people for going that way. Icelandic car owners' union says it will cost them 33% more. If it had only remained in a transport program, and then financed by public funds such as other transportation, it would have been far less expensive for the population. [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to say another, "Will this be another Vállah tunnel?" We do not know whether the funding will continue to continue, so that the General needs to shovel money into the project again, as it were in a guard tunnel. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Maybe it's not gonna be a Waffle Land tunnel. Maybe it'll be a Venetian tunnel.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u12	A respectable president. Of course, we are breaking into paper on transportation, where we are joining in a way that has been very controversial in recent years, and much has been discussed, i.e. starting quick action on the basis of an additional charge. It will be successful for some time that we will see much more intensive transport projects in the country that have been called behind and are needed in this large country in which these things will always be much more expensive than in the nations we compare with. The twinder in Pirata's lawsuit is crying out all the time. We are in itself doing exactly the same with the capital Convention on the construction of transport workers in the capital area where the Piratars have approved in a greater part of the mayor's territory to participate in the payment of the capital area. [[Wrong.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u13	Wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u14	What for? To speed things up. This twin is crying out. [[The president calls.]] We are taking steps to break down paper in the development of our country's transport activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u15	A respectable president. In the capital contract, there was a special addition of regulations that would not require urgency and traffic costs, which could be financed by other means. It was, for example. Because we protested.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u16	Right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u17	Let us be absolutely clear, this bill is about speeding up certain measures within the transport program. That means there's a tax increase, it's no more complicated than that. A user budget is being financed. This is an increase in taxation because the transport program is part of our common Community Convention on the Transportation of the country. So taking individual projects there and financing money is a tax increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u18	V.E.G. President. We'll be sitting by on this whole case, but we have two adjustments to 40 and 45. g. which refer to medical committees in such a way that we want to talk about hospital prescriptions and then health care committees. It is good, though, to see that veterinary surgeons are in shelter, so alleged that the location is a guard, especially in rural areas, and as is the case with domestic production at Grenivík. We also support the adjustment arrangement at 33 C.E.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u19	A respectable president. With older laws, the price of free-selling drugs was released, and by more than a decade ago, first mildest nicotine and fluoride strengths could be sold at shops rather than mild pain killers, allergies, or gastric medicinal products. There, the Icelandic consumers stand below Danir, Norwegians, and Swedes. Of course, competition would increase, and the level of service would increase if simple medicines could not be bought at shops and at gas stations, and there is, of course, no greater reason to limit their sales in our country than in our neighboring countries. But it's not easy to get the government around here to agree. Public sales warrants are also a matter of universal freedom of choice, competition, and consumer interests. We feel that freedom in business is the best opportunity and tools we have to ensure that there is a need for necessities and a low price. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're going to sit in front of this case. It doesn't go far enough to guarantee competition and freedom here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u20	A respectable president. I was on a committee party in this case, but I have to say, unfortunately, it's so hard to work, and it's so intense that you can't really let it through the way it is. That's why I'll be in yellow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u21	A respectable president. There's a vote on the pharmaceutical law here. This is a turning point, and it has been tried many times to set things straight, and it has long been time for this to be over. This is a total law on a very important case party. It's done well, and I'm glad we're finishing it today. Changes are made in drug - free sales in a rural area where there is no dealership. I think that's very important to ensure that there is an equality in many parts of the country, but it's very important to do so. Councilmen realized that drugs are not general consumers and that this important aspect is well - cared for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u22	President. We are sitting next to the payment of this huge bill, which contains more than 100 articles. It comes to us, and we start working on it in February, and then it's on the shelf because of Covid. So when it's recorded again, let's get into these huge laws, which I'm willing to agree to be important, and a general review of this category is very important. But this case is somehow run through in record speed. There are reviews after the modification of the majority of the items is made in which very serious comments are made. Only then will things change. I would have thought it normal to get reviews of the main interest stakeholders to make these adjustments because it is a huge interest issue, a big change. Especially do I mention that there was a personality protection that made it hard to believe that this central database, which has entered the bill, would come in after the consultation process, and there was no Persian protection with him. [[The president calls.]] We find that there are cases where the effect on personal protection has not been evaluated. [[The president calls.]] It's just embarrassing, and we're sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u23	Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór son of Gunnarsson, who said that drugs are not common consumers, saying: This is not why it is not acceptable to work in this way. Here are 108 legal cases being revised. It's a 1994 law. This is a total of 108 articles, which are produced in an inadequate manner. There were 27 comments, including From the surgeon general's office, which was so serious that we must consider them. Sadly, though, the majority of them were not prepared for the one and a half hours discussed by members of the committee. I'm sorry, this is unacceptable. Changes were made after the matter was taken out of the welfare committee. I was on the committee opinion in advance, simply because I couldn't take over the committee's opinion after it was done after other reviews came in. [[The president calls.]] This is an unsurpassed practice, Mr. President, and we will not vote for this vote. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u24	A respectable president. Here we deal with a very large and important group of legalities, the legal code, and we have worked considerably on this in the Committee. Many good changes have been made on this bill since it was submitted, and the main comments from sources have been taken into consideration. In particular, I'm glad we're open to free-selling drugs where the pharmacist is not available. I think it's a very big and good step that we're taking there to ensure the availability of necessary drugs often and frequently in many parts of the country, and then we'll have some experience in it. Also, we've discussed a considerable amount of space, and rather not, the release from two pharmacists and also made significant changes to the Marine Committee of the Land Hospital, so I believe that the case is totally ready to be agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u25	A respectable president. I just want to reiterate that I was on the committee opinion in advance, and I'd also like to reiterate that I agree with that as a matter of course. The members of Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Halldóra Mogensen said about the tactics in this case. What may be the most serious point is that the speaker comes up here and says: "It was a good job. We cannot accept that medication laws are done well. They are to be completely processed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u26	A respectable president. It is a suggestion for us to take steps in the pursuit of greater freedom, freedom that underscores confidence in consumers, and guarantees national competition and freedom of business. We make the suggestion to the same level as the governments in other northern countries who trust consumers in this area. It seems to me that the government doesn't want to take the same steps and create the same environment that exists in the North countries. I'm sorry, but this is a step toward increasing freedom, since we can increase access and improve services to consumers in this area. That's why I say yes, and I hope that a matter of freedom will now be approved. These groups of government, green, progressive, and independent groups, have been given many suggestions to increase their freedom in the country, but they are always rejected immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u27	Mr. President. This motion comes from a representative of my section of the Committee, but I can't support it any more than good because the rest is incomplete. There's no paint over leaks. 108 articles, total medication laws, do not get better with these little changes, unfortunately, so that we also have yellows for changes that come from just not ready. That's not good enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u28	V.E.G. President. We're going to sit by on this case. This is mainly because there has been insufficient time to work the case properly, as well as that important comments are overlooked, e.g. from the surgeon general. Here's a lot of software solutions that don't have a way of solving, so I say again: we'll sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u29	Mr. President. We in the United States will be sitting by in this matter. So amazing is the fact that the bill for change in various laws due to the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information was not worked in consultation with Perone Protection. It's kind of strange to invite the Allied Council of Iceland to bring in such a bill and thus go against the laws of personal protection, since if there are any important personal information on the journey, it's in the health system. Here they are changing the law, but they forgot to speak to the agency to supervise and know the most about personal protection. So we won't be able to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u30	President. I think it's important to say something. The head of the welfare committee. We're paying votes on personal protection and the processing of personal information that did not consult with Pernon protection. It's totally crazy. In fact, according to the Federal Protection Center, the Agency received some kind of written announcement that some bill was involved in the consultation problem but no relationship and earlier Persian protection was made when writing the bill. That's not okay, Mr. President. This is happening a few times, just like I said before. We're getting important prime messages to the welfare committee because the effect on personal protection has not been assessed, and this is in violation of the laws we've put ourselves here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u31	A respectable president. We're going to have yellow on this case because it's just another thing that's done pretty well. What does that mean? Yes, the principal member of the case is not going to get there, Perone Protection, and this is a matter of personal protection. Because you do not understand such tactics, it is quite remarkable that things come from one another to the "behaved to the other. "
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u32	President. I'd like to put this into context. When Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was the prime minister, he was on the way to repair the loan - related damage done to the people; he went on a nice way to reach 80 billion banks by setting a special bank tax, which I commended at my time; but when it was time to consider how well it had worked, etc. Then there was a bill that Persian protection totally opposed. Yet it was forced through the council. Personal protection and privacy are not particularly written here at the General Assembly when it comes to achieving other goals. We see the mistakes made with the app for the travel. True, they were corrected, that is, fine. Now it's a bill here, and there's a Persian protection question about whether it's all right. There's nothing special about privacy written here, and it's important for the people of the country to realize that. That's where we gotta get up. When it comes to property rights in the Constitution, a bill has been presented at the council twice now after a year's convention, with one clearly contradicting him and the other. [[The president calls.]] It was stopped. [[The president calls.]] We must begin to respect these fundamental values in the Constitution regarding civil rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u33	A respectable president. I would like to agree with what has been discussed in the discussion, and perhaps I may be allowed to give the warning that I feel that the greater part is inclined not to see that personal protection is an independent argument in the case. This is not something that is being examined or investigated afterwards; it is independent of whether legislation is undertaken simply to be made up. It's really amazing to listen to it in here that their views are ignored.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u34	Mr. President. It is strange to hear this discussion. We set a law on personal protection in 2018, and since then we have been legalizing the legalities of various legislations toward that law, and this is a legalized and tailored area under the Ministry of Health under the Ministry of Health. Of course, this bill is all about the protection law, or we wouldn't be moving it here. I'm surprised to find out. Council members believe that this legal bill, which is being adapted to the Department of Health and Personal Protection Act of 2018, does not meet the protection laws. It's just absurd to say that. Of course, the bill fulfills the protection law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u35	Mr. President. I have to come up here for a word. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, senior producer of the case. You see, this bill is not a matter of personal protection, although its purpose may have been initially realized. The Persian guardians and surgeon generals were invited to present reviews and appear before the committee, and serious comments came from both sources that were not taken into account in the process. I'm afraid that doesn't make sense. A senator said that this was a perfect act of personal protection. [[This is wrong.]] I'm sorry, it's not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u36	Wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u37	President. Now I'm not a member of the Committee. I don't know if this bill is a protection system. But what we see here is that there has not been a Persian protection story about the bill as it is now. That's not good. There are laws of personal protection in the country, laws in the country that were specifically designed to promote personal protection. The Constitution also says that we should protect our privacy, our personal protection, so we must examine it. Then I can absolutely compliment myself. The head of the pro board, what? paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir. We've just received a case to us that may not have survived the Constitution and was calling in the administration rights specialists to guide us through it, and this work has been successful in a job committee. This must be used in other committees too because our basic obligation is to keep the constitution, including on privacy and personal protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u38	Mr. President. Only with regard to these articles: This is a further Regulation for Ministers to try to put under the leak where there is no clear law available for the processing of personal information. A protocol authority is not adequately corrected for as important personal information as health information and health information, so this cannot be voted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u39	V.E.G. President. We're going to sit by on this case. It's about the extension of temporary regulations we hope to meet at last, this has been going on to at least Four years. I hope this time I'm gonna be able to get it over with because it's really important. But I don't trust it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u40	Mr. President. Here again, some delay is being extended. I challenge the highest. Secretary of society and child care to complete the necessary work but not come to this year and ask for another deadline. But we'll vote with this, anyway, because it's necessary. But we have to finish this job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u41	President. Here it is suggested to extend a temporary law in which, according to the labour market agreement, it is allowed to deviate from the Sabbath law, i.e. • providing important and essential MPA services The point is, we provided such an extension of these temporary laws at the end of 2018, if I recall correctly, and it was stated from the Committee that it would be extremely important that we be taken into law, we could not be putting up with such temporary laws again. A committee of some kind was to work on this in order to find lasting relief. It wasn't until it's too late, and now we're back at a time where we have to extend this preliminary principle and I don't like doing it this way, so I'm staying by. I really hope this is going to be fixed as soon as possible, so we're not going to be moving back in the next few days. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u42	A respectable president. I agree with the members of Parliament who have spoken here, it's unfortunate what has been drawn to complete the underlying bill. At least I'd like to point them out. According to members of Congress, the Committee has received information about the existence of a prime company and that such a bill will be delivered to the committee immediately in the autumn Summit. I want less of that, too. Councilmen, if necessary, that for reasons that we here are unable to control, the Ministry of Health and Health has been busy with some of these other measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u43	A respectable president. I agree with what's been said here, we need to finish this case. And with confidence that this will be the last time we have to vote on it, I will support it because it is the most important NPA service. We'll have to get this fixed up once and for all, otherwise we'll be ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u44	A respectable president. Here we are voting on a bill suggested to provide an overall social support law with the elderly. It is suggested that a new social network be established for the elderly living here and that they have no or limited pension rights in social security. In the treatment of the case, it was found that this is a group of over 400 people. This is very important, since it is a group with little or no right, and it even needs to go to its rural community every month for alimony.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u45	V.E.G. President. We support it, and it's really important, and hopefully it'll get there soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u46	Mr. President. This is a very important case that we in the United States support, of course. Yet, there is one catch, it has been decided that those who enjoy these rights are entitled only to 90% of basic life, 90% of $250,000, instead of having it full right. The Ministry stated that there are probably three individuals a year who have a full right to this, and the total cost of the state funds will be 14 million. K. This year for these individuals. I think we could have gotten them a full pension, which is $250,000. beds. But we still support this experiment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u47	Mr. President. We vote on a very good case in terms of social support for the worse in the midst of the elderly. This matter has been waited a long time. This is to strengthen the progress of the elderly living in this country, with no or little rights in the pension system or the social security system. This group with limited rights and high trust in rural support are women more than men, and 50% are foreign citizens, 67 years of age and older, living in Iceland, and living in a very rare setting. It's a good thing, and I'm very happy that we're supporting those groups who are the worst in our society and long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u48	A respectable president. We've got some really weird shit going on here. 90% citizen, I don't like it, I like it 100%. The saddest thing about this case is how reckless it is, but I support it 100%. How is that achieved? Yes, we're making 90 percent, creating a complicated level, a massive flexure, a dollar across a dollar. How much? That costs 70 million a year to save what? If we hadn't, it would've cost 15 million. We would have saved 50 million people by keeping a simple system. Aren't we always talking about trying to simplify our social security system? When are we going to understand that we do not simplify it with 90%, we do not simplify it by taking back a dollar? This is ridiculous. But I support it, and I hope we change it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u49	A respectable president. Lately, this bill in the conference hall comes as a vote for social support to the elderly, while a staff on the project completed and gave suggestions for about two years. In the United States, over 3,000 people 65 years of age and older live under poverty limits, have limited social security rights due to habitat or ethnic origin, have little more than social security benefits. Here's a good step to recognize and recognize that Iceland is a multi-national and multicultural community. Of course, the step should have been taken to the full, but it is very likely that a group of disability would be in a situation similar to that of likely need to be healed. This is a good thing, and we shall rejoice in it, ye equal, truly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u50	V.E.G. President. We're going to sit by on this case. We feel the need to revise these whole laws, with considerable misunderstandings and winding of them, especially in the final events of the Korean epidemic and the appearance of everything that appears to us there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u51	President. This is another matter that comes to us where personal protection is not being assessed, which is rather bad because there is a working agency that has access to information from the police. It is important to evaluate the effects on personal protection and specifically specify which information the Agency should have. It wasn't done in advance, as the law says, so the warrant will be too open and I'll make comments about it. So we're sitting by. Also, the most important matters are not addressed, raising the level of unemployment, and considering whether we should not eliminate these conditions entirely because there would be a much more efficient operation if we did not monitor everyone who is on unemployment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u52	President. This is a vote for a labour agency to have access to police information. We feel totally vague that it is needed by a head, and there would have to be an assessment of the effects on personal protection before that decision was made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u53	V.E.G. President. We support this case with a user council that I find very important. But I just want to come up here and tell you that it's just as important to get paid for sitting on the staff of disabled people as on other advice. So I'd like to reiterate that you can be rewarded and that you are to be paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u54	Mr. President. I support this case, but I was very careful because I think it's a little late to finish it. The management of the Committee has provided objective reasons for further consideration. I trust that's going to be done this summer so we can finish it right in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u55	Mr. President. I was on notice at the committee party of the greater part in this other fine language, and the warning was given for the development of the greater part. We in the United States agree to remove from the law authorization with very vague guidelines. So we agree with the highest. Minister, but we vote against the suggestion of the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u56	Mr. President. I want to come up here to celebrate the success of this bill. I'd also like to be especially happy that members of the Committee were able to cooperate well. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir The Oddný Harðardóttir signed the Commission's opinion in advance, since we thought that the funding was not far enough and that the loan conditions needed to be in order for a company to take advantage of this possibility of financing. The good news came, both on the committee and later on on on. The legal committee, with considerable financial support being added after all that discussion, is that I especially want to celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u57	Mr. President. For a weekend, at 2nd. On this matter, the 718th matter of the council, the climate, I succeeded as a surrogate for the cause. In his brief speech, Kolobar Óttarsson Proppér, who made an explanation for members of the committee's list of objects. Environment and Transport Committee, to refer to the wrong Senate document, i.e. Not in a skew. 1752 referring to the case. I apologize for this mistake that no one actually noticed that night. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This was the last item on the program on this long Friday day, the senses being numb and at the highest. I'm the only president in the audience. Although I don't think it came to a more serious fault, I know that I will vote afterward with all my senses open and the case will be docked.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u58	President. I want to be glad we're making this case legal. Here, the Icelandic government is voluntarily taking up the European Union's internal rules on climate issues that fall outside the EEA Convention, but do not provide an independent-important target for recession within the framework of the Paris Convention. In other words, this is a legal arrangement that we do not really have to legalize, but we take that step voluntarily. So here is not the implementation of regulations, it's not come that far, but we are taking the step of being ahead of schedule in it and entering our laws on the goals that are there. This shows great ambition for the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter in climate matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u59	A respectable president. In this matter of commitment and release, we in the Central Party will be sitting with the vote. Our main concerns have been repeated in this regard. First, we find it wise to walk a little slower through the door to implement a regular work that places additional cost on the job. This case has even Be quick to reason that it is a significant matter of simplicity regarding the extravasation of enterprises and the system as a whole. However, the simplicity is so great that there are substantial staff to the public institutions, to the EEA, to the forestry and to the land healing, to name something. We do so, we make serious comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u60	A respectable president. Climates are indistinguishably the biggest and most urgent of today's events. I rejoice in all reforms in that matter, i.e. that we will be able to take sides with our assignments and support this bill with a complete mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u61	President. This has become the best of business and is done in fine consultations within the Committee. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that the committee met for a clear message to the minister to start a full review of these laws, since they are extremely complex and inefficient. I just wanted to call attention to it and encourage ministers until action.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u62	A respectable president. I support this bill, but I was on the committee list in advance. I believe it is imperative that the total re-vision of the law be carried out as soon as possible, as well. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé came in. I feel that there is no closer service in the areas that the law applies to, as appropriate. The objective of the law - changing government was to simplify the law for business and public, as it was promised, by canceling dozens of laws that are responsible for the work and observation of companies, but it was at risk of even turning into its opposite side. I also found that one of the factors that were uncertain as to whether they were incarcerated was the construction of a labor camp and thus the services of a foreign worker. It is a broken pot, so to speak, and we have probably had a very tragic example recently. These measures will stay in place and need to be added and carefully monitored.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u63	Mr. President. I recommend, on behalf of more part of the employment company for a bill to legalize the policy of packaging travel and interconnected travel forms and laws of state responsibility, a so-called travel guarantee fund. Those who make the point are the ones here who stand and why. Björk Brynjólfsdóttir, Njáll Syrý Kristý Kristjinnsdótir, Ásmundur Friðbertsson Friðbersson, Sigurður Ísleifsson Jónsson. The key element of this matter is not to set up a travel responsibilities fund to temporarily address the negative effects of a pandemic crown virus on the activities of a organisation or a small sale, and to ensure consumer interests. The fund shall be kept in the custody of a travel agency, which also makes decisions on payment from the fund. The wealth is responsible for the commitments of the fund. A minister is authorized by contract to hide a qualified party service to the fund. I'm going to tap into a large box on this case and refer to the current court of the Treaty on the package travel and the interconnected travel options that took place on January 1, 2019, and are introduced to the European Parliament's Directive and Council's Council of November 25, 2015, on the package trips and related travel arrangements. Package conduction is a combination of at least two different types of travel-related services due to the same procedure that includes at least Two of the following: travel by passengers, lodging, renting cars or motorcycles, or other travel - related services that are not normally related to passenger transport, rooming, or rented vehicles. 12th degree. The directive requires the right of tourists to a full reimbursement without an unauthorized delay and no later than 14 days after a pack release is canceled or canceled because of unusual and uncontrollable circumstances. From the above, travel agencies that have sold packages that have been canceled or declared due to the spread of the crown virus should be reimbursed to tourists in all payments within 14 days of deportation or removal. The problem of a pandemic resort for the Korean virus has been significant, and the epidemic has greatly affected tourism worldwide, and it has not been part of an Icelandic tourism company. Various measures have been taken here on the land to address the problems as well as in other European countries. In most European countries, changes in consumer legal rights have not been made for the full reimbursement, but travel agencies have been aided in reimbursement requirements. The bill suggests the establishment of a special fund, a travel guarantee fund, which has the sole purpose of reimburseing tourists the payment they have due to a package canceled or canceled because of unusual and uncontrollable circumstances, and after travel agencies, they have already reimbursed tourists. Thus, the purpose of the fund is clearly set aside and intended only to deal with the temporary problems of a pandemic crown virus that we all know but also to care for one another's equality. It is up to the government to reevaluate insurance on the basis of selling packages. I guess they'll work right away in the autumn months, and they'll even be working. look to an arrangement in the North countries in this regard. As director of this case and head of the employment committee, more than a part of it is representing this case, I would like to make the Senate aware that in the ministry's work, better and more efficient implementations have been made for the main objective of supporting travel agencies, paying the consumers back for the noncommunicators who have not yet gone and thereby meet the package laws. There is a proposal for the materials that will be transported by a greater part of the employment committee. So I believe that we bring the case back to the job committee, where there is a proposal for better and more efficient implementation on this same objective. I wish that the case should be referred to a professional committee and that we take the lead in making the move quickly and that we return to the conference for discussion. I announce that the meeting on the job committee will be advertised within a very short period of time, and we try to do this quickly and effectively, where there is a great agreement on putting the bill through at this assembly to meet the consumers and the difficulties of travel agencies that have been badly damaged by the crowning epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for history. I'd like to pause for reviews from the consumer organisations, where they promote that it is not clear whether those who have already accepted possession from tourism have the right to get paid through this fund. I think it's something important to get it out. You see, it is true that there are some, and even many people, who have accepted such privileges of possession, believe that nothing else was available. In case of a moment. A senator could consider whether to handle this matter, and that would be good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u65	Mr. President. It was all right. A senator would ask this question because it will be here. The consumers who have already accepted the terms of the estate and who wish to be paid more readily can be reimbursed if they wish to do so. There will be equality in that subject. I think these matters have been made very well, as they look in the final implementation of the transition to the case that we're going to review to the job committee afterwards. It's just a clear answer: they'll be here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u66	Mr. President. That's good to hear. Thank you. The senator for the answer and to make a clear point that this is going to be achieved, that those who have received the credit will be able to repay them. There is another comment that comes from the consumer organization in their cover story. They discuss graduation trips and so on, that their tourism agencies have made special changes, changed their destination, and even moved to their destinations, etc. Watch your step. A senator only entered it? If travel changes are being made, a travel agency, as stated in the National Association's review, should inform passengers of the proposed changes and allow them to accept or reject them. If the change is significant - in many cases - a tourist can cancel his journey on the basis of 13 and 14. adapts the package travel.How much you want to do? He may then be able to receive reimbursement. Watch your step. A senator considered this aspect of the matter that the Neythal Association has expressed concern?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u67	Mr. President. The consumer organization was given a presentation in the language as it seems today. The case will change as I have declared. I'll take better care of the process when we rephrase it. Many who are attracted to it as a dog. A senator mentioned is trying to make a new appointment. It is also being considered to extend the expected period of time, from March 12 to June 30, as this bill suggests. Our mind is to extend it by one month. We watch that teenage sports events have been organized, for example. in July. While flying to the relevant locations, conventions, e.g. they've been dropped. When I recommend the adjustment of my proposal, I prefer to get more information on how people qualify to have the right to reimburse a travel agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u68	President. I'm the only member of the Committee that doesn't have the case because, as it has now been suggested, I couldn't quite be able to do so. And then you said "whipped." A senator that follows the motions of changing. We may review the changes. I could be in the case as if it were after the adjustment, but it's too late for the first round. And that wasn't the way it was put forward. It seems to me it's just getting pretty good. Original is the problem with companies that have already bought their trips, etc. and they sell these other packages, and they have to repay. The solution to be considered was to have consumers exchange their ownership requirements and its ownership issues. We stopped it on a job committee by reviewing the Constitution in that language, and that was a good job. The bill presented by the committee contains two possible issues that might conflict with the right of property. On the one hand, if consumers can go straight to a travel agency and request a refund, a loan relationship may be established between the travel responsibilities and the travel agencies they might not accept. However, the demands that there might be a higher priority than what other people might have on the companies and therefore they could not accept this. With these adjustments, if I understand them correctly, then what? The manager of the case, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir, can go to the travel agencies and ask for reimbursement, but the traveling agencies can then pick up a travel guarantee fund that simplifys everything, and only get this money under conditions of paying them out. Paying the consumer at once was protected by penalties. This actually makes sure that the funds go that way. The Kingdom has requirements and protects its property rights. It is, in most cases, likely, a relatively small amount of government funds. But this would be the process. This would ensure ownership because the travel agencies themselves would not be forced into this system of loans with the state. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They would want it and be authorized to pay the consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's always very good when it's right. Senators answer themselves in their own reply. Sounds like it's coming. The director of the Board of Directors and Commission, Jón Þór Ólafsson, has, in turn, done so now, in a good way, to answer the counter. All I can say is that I agree completely with him. My understanding of the situation is the same as he described it here. I think this new implementation we're discussing on the job board today, and I'm going to measure this further, ensures that the case is a constitution and the EEA rights and other things we've also had checked on this bill and have been examined from the criteria of the changes presented. I believe the matter has improved further and was simplified as far as possible and that consumers do not have to go to some mountain backway but have their own rights to the travel agency. Of course, if that is not the case, the tourist office has arrived somewhere bad and must accept its insurance if necessary. But I have a lot of expectations that this will go on fast and well, as the new process reads.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u70	Mr. President. We'll discuss more than one part of the workforcer bill to legalize the changes to the package travel laws and interconnected travel options, No. 95/2018, and State responsibilities law, No. 121/11997. V.E.G. A travel minister, Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, showed up with a bill, in March, to change these same laws to deal with the unusual situation that has come up for Covid-19 and a complete collapse in tourism. Unfortunately, soon after the committee began its discussion, it was found that the proposed route was completely impossible and likely incompetent to both the Constitution and the EEA Convention. Of course, it is unacceptable how that meant much damage to consumer rights. However, this issue is much better and, in fact, incomprehensible that this route has not been selected at the outset. But anyway, it has come out, and hopefully we can make it possible for it to be completed quickly and safely and to ensure both the interests of consumers and the services in the existing situation. Mr. President. There are four things I'd like to implode here. And then, of course, I'll follow up on those points at the Committee. First, as shown in the case of the head of the committee, whether this period of travel, March 12 to June 30, is sufficient. As noted, although some travel between countries has already begun, it remains limited and continues to develop significant disorders after June 30, which fall below the 14th, 15, and 16. The law. Similarly, in some of these travel, it is clear that the foundation for the trip is a bit like that. to the deportation of conventions, to the molds where conventions have been dropped, and to list other events. Then, too, there are goings to countries where surgeons specifically warn. Secondly, Mr. President, the Commission will have the potential to make a decision in the Commission's position of those who have accepted a contract from travel agencies, such as driving agencies. The head of the trade trade committee came in earlier, and if it is possible for the individuals to get their money paid, but some consumers may have accepted the possession of the belief that it was all available. As far as I'm concerned, it's really safe in consumer law, but I think it would be a good idea if the committee were to reiterate it in its committee and to draw attention to it. Third, we in the United States support it, as in other Covid cases, that there will be some requirement for borrowing. Thus, it is minimal to rule out the support of those who make use of tax trades and societies from a government fund, as we have proposed in the United States on other matters. It would also have been an opportunity, as in any other case, to set the climate-based budget. Under that condition, governments would put the climate issue on a regular schedule and at the same time demand that companies do the same. Fourth, I think it would be very useful and important if the committee specifically discussed the rights of consumers in cases where travel agencies decide one-sided significant changes in pack travel agreements, such as moving forward to the next year, but on 1 mg. 14th par. involving pack travel, a traveller can make a significant change in the trip, a one - year delay for e.g. Consider an example. Actually, it's in the law, but I think, as I mentioned earlier, it's important that we specifically discuss it in the committee opinion. Mr. President. The importance of the transport service for the Icelandic economy is no one who has observed the past few years. This has been a rapidly growing industry. Many did not believe in that sector at first, but last year's situation was that it was the most successful industry and provided most of the exports for land and country. By the end of the year, few people would be betting that this would be the position of the tourism today and not just here, but all over the world. It's not like Iceland fell something out of fashion. It's the natural Covid that has this effect, as everyone knows. But just as we would probably consider supporting other employment practices, such as the seabed in the fauna, it should probably be to support travel services in what I would think was now their financial failure. Mr. President. I'm not gonna extend this discussion too much. After this discussion, the committee will review the matter again and discuss these and other points in the discussion and the comments on the subject. There is a great willingness among the members of the committee to work hard and will hopefully agree to complete the matter in a way that benefits both consumers and tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u71	A respectable president. In many ways, this is a brilliant subject for discussion. It's an example of a case where members of Congress and Congress are saving the face of the government. The case that was originally submitted almost three months ago, which involved the introductions of tourism and introductory opposition to the Constitution, to the legal rights of the Constitution, in shouting conflict with all consumer rights and all consumers' grounds, so I don't speak about the EEA rights. It was kind of embarrassing to listen to one of the experts after another, apart from natural debates, e.g. From ASI and the Neythal Society on the matter established by the government. It's a little strange that the case has gone without comments through the government parties, and that's really a lot to think about. But all right, we're discussing the case that's supposed to cut the government out of the trap. It also became clear in view of the fact that circumstances in travel services related to these packages had not become so uncertain and confusing - and in fact, both consumers and tourism were drawn a little by the lack of answers, whether from a minister or a government. There could have been a barrier between the individuals who received a possession code delivered and those who did not share in getting the details at this time. There are some views that matter. I want to agree with everything. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Sufjörbjörg, Elíasdóttir of Elias, said earlier and made her known to me regarding the tourism. There is a need to ensure the functioning and management of tourism in some way. We need to keep our companies alive. In my opinion, there are many things that the Parliament and the government have done well. It has been tried to get companies within the tourism service into the so-called domestics. Some have failed, but others have succeeded. For travel-service companies who are faced with their legal release because of a package trip, the key is that we also try to keep them alive, give them a chance. They needed to care for the security of their funds. It had to be solved. However, as the government originally suggested, it does not resolve by taking possession of the rights. In particular, consumer rights need to be considered. This was not done in the original case, but it is being done here in an irrefutable way. Most of all, we've been given free will, or we've actually been blessed, from the EEA, or ESA, that this route is successful, and I want to be especially happy about it. This will mean temporary spending supplies, but in turn, the state will be reimbursed in the tourism companies at some point through the arrangement being announced by the Committee. So there is room within the box that is already available for financial support. So this step does not allow us to step into the frame of money. There is never the wrong time, a respectable president, to take up the right cause, and I think the committee is doing it. There are two things that we should especially keep in mind after visitors'comments to the committee's case. On the one hand, the concern of tourism was that the time in June, on the part of the Ministry and the majority of the committees were intended to help and meet them, was too short. But I would especially like to welcome the chairman of the Committee to announce that the time frame is being extended so that it will be at least to the end of July. Hopefully, we will consider the possibility of August as well. The extension will mean that packed travel companies can meet sports groups, corals, and all sorts of people who have purchased packages. I think it's very important and important to these consumers and groups. I hope that we'll be done later at a meeting of the employment committee. On the other hand, it was originally put in this bill on the part of the Ministry and the greater part that it would only reach those who had not been paid, who had not been told to travel companies who had already set out and immediately met the consumers and paid them out. Hence, a certain discrepancy arose. This could possibly damage equality in a competitive market. That's why I want to celebrate what the Committee has done and changed since the Ministry's proposal, i.e. that this loan system includes a travel agency and a bill includes traveling agencies that have not reimbursed packages as well as those who have reimbursed packages. Thus, we are adding equalities to them and thus promoting an active competitive and consumer policy on this market. In spite of all the problems that were in progress on the part of the government, otherwise it was quite pleasant and interesting to win the case and to gain increased insight into the diversity of the tourist industry. Much has been discussed about innovation and the need for innovation. I'd like to underscore what I've said in the past, that it is not least new to travel services that we've experienced in recent years with the rise of the industry. We're seeing all kinds of innovation and innovation in national tourism. We're seeing a moving agency offer some options that we wouldn't have thought of in the past. This will be the way we do on the free opening market, where the wands will exist, and in this way we will be able to promote wealth within important sectors, such as tourism. Even though it is now much low, I have full faith that traveling to a shorter and longer time will recover. She'll not be the same, but she'll be fine, and she'll still be one of our basics because we have goods, Iceland, that no one else can offer. We need to learn a little from experience and look at this, but what's not to do is, as I have sometimes felt, that individuals speak the travel service down. I don't want to be a part of it. I think it's important that we take advantage of this opportunity to stimulate economic growth, and I think we'll be able to achieve it by strengthening and strengthening our tourism. That is why it is important that we keep the companies busy in our tourism activities. There's gonna be some money in the tourism service, that's not a question. Businesses will lay low and have already stopped their operations or gone bankrupt. This in itself is not bad on the whole, as long as we learn from experience and try to make better use of the sprouters that have grown in the article. Here we have an issue that gives us important aspects of the tourism service the possibility of continuing and improving their activities, offering a wide range of services, but we also have a language that ensures the right consumers. It is crucial that the message from the Council is clear that, whatever we are, all of us are concerned about consumer interests. In this case, I planned to pet the travel agency, as well as the consumer organizations and ASI, but also the administrative groups that kept the government classes very close to the subject and did not allow them to complete this terrible case they brought up. There was a very clear message to the government groups. They actually had little time to participate in anything else but to improve the situation in that we are here with a case that I hope we can handle pretty well later on today in behalf of consumers and in the interests of employment. And that's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u72	President. Now we have a case that solves the problem that was original and has been since travel agencies, many of them, were unable to pay out packings, they did not have financial opportunities to do so, as they were supposed to do under law. Because they had no access to insurance money unless they either went to business headquarters or went bankrupt. The proposal originally on the table was to let the consumers who had bought the bags, and to give them credit rights as per the law of reimbursement within 14 days, replace them with property rights, and give them credit. It wasn't available. This is an example of a situation in which the smaller part may agree to stop a matter, especially when it is at great risk that it violates the constitution. If the smaller part comes together, it can stop it. We called by government executives, and we found ourselves an expert on property, and it was quite clear that this right was the consumer. He had requirements in travel agencies under law, this requirement was ownership. Replaced with the possession code meant that the consumer's rights were being disbarred, which is a fraction of 72 C.E. The Constitution, unless it was a huge public interest, will be paid and any other means will be put to the test if the prices are missing, etc. This was made clear, so it was clear that there was another way to go. I proposed a change to travel agencies that, although they were not in business station or bankruptcy, this insurance money is coming up if it was shown that they would otherwise go to a stop or bankruptcy. That would solve this trade problem of a travel agency. They could pay the consumers instead of just taking over their property and giving them credit. So there were other solutions and when it is clear that there are solutions other than having people's real rights, i.e. if you are not moderate, which is a violation of 72rd degree. The constitution, it has to be solved. But the matter was only frozen or salted in the committee. Now there is a proposal made in the Ministry that protects the right of property and makes sure travel agencies with financial problems can gain access to funds to reimburse consumers. Everybody's gonna make it. It's possible that the government's fund will lose something of it. Of course, it is also possible that the state's funds will make something better because government funds have far less money. It will be in the form of loans from travel responsibilities funds to these enterprises at 3.15% interest. A treasure could take some blow, make money on it as well. The company's vacancy is caught, and consumers are reimbursed under their property rights without being stripped of that which is well. The reason I'm not a member of the Committee on This Issue - it was in the Ministry, a proposal came to the trade committee, and the committee proposes it - is because there was a possibility that this was not entirely a requirement for property rights. It was unlikely, but it was a possibility. And while there is a possibility, I feel obliged to let the Constitution, the ownership in this case, enjoy the doubt. What was it? Yes, it was possible for consumers to take their claim and go straight to their travel guarantees and say, "We want our money back. They would have received it, and on this they would have received a new requirement, which was a loan, not a direct demand, but a loan, to the travel agency. The travel office says: "Hey, I'm in some loan relationship I didn't want. And as a result, you might say, "Hey, there's going down on my rights as well. ' This loan has higher priorities than any other requirement, different from failure. Others who have a right to own or a requirement for an exorbitant enterprise might say: " Hey, it's me being restricted by law. This path will not be gone, but it will be on the bill as it is now. But like a dog. The manager for the case, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir, will say the matter again to the professional committee. It's gonna be fixed. The result is that the consumer goes straight to his travel agency and says: "I want my money back. The travel agency can then go by itself and request to borrow this from the travel guarantee fund at 3.15% interest to repay the consumer. It seems to us that there's all the motivation to do that. Travel agencies are not forced to do that. This is the key to the Constitution of the Constitution in this regard. They can borrow this. One other reason why I didn't want to be involved with the case as it was then, was that this is state support. These companies are getting cheap loans from the government, even if the government has less loans elsewhere and profit in the meantime, it's a government support that needs to be fit. The state might lose something on this one, if they don't get a full reimbursement on demand, etc. But I wish there were some foreclosures, such as those given regarding the loans and other resources available to the companies of the country with all kinds of government support due to Covid. It's one of those things, it's natural state support for Covid. I wish some kind of backup was put in place, e.g. that there were no large profits from these companies, that managers did not have superpay, and that they were not linked to companies or subsidies in taxes, etc. I wanted that kind of advance in there. There was a view that this was not entirely ordinary, the other loan, the support that has been, the bridge loans, and so on, where this money can be used in a much wider area. And in this case, if companies ask for this loan, they get the loan and have to repay the consumers with the loans and not use them in anything else to enforce the punishment, including Prison punishment, so it is a law of penalties to violate using this capital solely to repay consumers. They meant that it was guaranteed where this opportunity would go, and it could not be abused. But I would still like to have this advance so that the companies that are truly getting a better position, getting a cheap budget from the state, are enterprises that have not stopped paying in the common budget or being such as. with some companies that are linked to taxes. But okay. It almost leaves me that way that I could have said that I wanted to be on the case. But it's great that a professional board stood on its feet, stopped the original bill as clearly breaking the constitution, moved experts to check on this bill, how could it be possible to shoot everyone in the end for breaking the right of property, the constitution, the constitution that we members of Congress are being given. And this is the subject that is likely to be successful for everyone, including the treasure of the state. I want to thank you for this treatment of the cases and thank the employment committee for the solidarity of the holding right to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u73	A respectable president. We're here on a change in the law on package travel and interconnected travel proposals and state responsibility law, which is now the best case. The bill that came in earlier was so inheritable that it broke laws, and I was so terrified, when I saw that bill in its time, where those traveling, whether it was teenagers, older citizens, or others, were supposed to be lending their travel offices what they had already put on payment for trips. I was so scared, when the bill came out, that I stepped up here and for the first time since I arrived at the council, I just tore that bill right here in a speech chair. Happily, it was retracted, and now a much better bill is presented by the greater part of the employment committee. I just pointed out at the time that if it was the law's will to ensure that travel agencies would not be badly damaged because of the legal obligation to repay trips that are dropped, the government should have a fund and take care of it. Of course, it is the right way if you want to, but it is really impossible that someone might have thought of a legal means to deprive people of their legal rights to save their travel agency. It's so ridiculous that I'm still quite dumb about it, and this shows it, and it's earlier today, that we have to be more careful in all legal procedures, and in particular we can't accept something that's badly worked or decently worked or okay. We must do things as best we can. I hope so much and fervently that here we have found the solution and I support it, and I asked this very way so that it's just great, and hopefully this will be a lesson for us not to try to force the law that is just set up to break other laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u74	Mr. President. I recommend here for the Economic and Business Committee for the bill for a change in the law on merit extra taxes, No. 50/1988, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests a temporary change of regulations in terms of merit taxation to be remembered by members of a so-called Covid operation. Here it is suggested that the international, regional, and national, national, and national, national, and international organisations, as well as other registered religious and biological organizations, be added to the list of those that are permitted according to the directives for temporary reimbursement of merit tax, a law often called all work. The bill is presented in the wake of indications for which the provision of the provisional principle was provided. For example, it has been noted that reimbursement might be useful for youth communities involved in the European Union of Building and Reimbursement, and maintenance of human activities. There have also been indications that there is a great need for the maintenance of churches and congregations in this country as well as that it is necessary to specify specifically in the greater law code of sports and local and special relationships as well as sports partners. In view of the important social work that these persons are doing in this country and in order to further contribute to increased employment in the current economic and economic circumstances, it is suggested that the tax reimbursement be taken into account. Mr. President. Other than that, I refer to the series of articles that follow this bill but suggest that it go directly to the 2nd. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u75	Mr. President. On behalf of the Economic and Business Committee, I hereby recommend a bill for the change in financial support laws to the operators for a pandemic crown virus, a standard tax payment laws on capital gains and Congress laws. It's kind of a mini-band worm like we call it here. The changes are as follows: 1st par. that four loans should be limited to the host's support loans. Earlier, in the law we agreed here a few weeks ago, the loans could be one or more. This is to ensure that, in a considerable amount of management, you keep up with each mortgage, that it is being restricted, and also, since these loans have complete or partial responsibilities after a large amount of money, it is of great importance that there are not countless people below you. The change in support loans is then proposed, but the decision adopted here was very decisive and consistent with the purpose of the support loans, i.e. to assist the operator to cover the costs of short-term management, but not to reimburse older loans for more favorable costs. On the other hand, it has been noted that during the past few weeks, a loan has been taken to face the loss of income for a pandemic crown while support loans have not yet been available, but according to my information, it is taking place these days. Since the loans are actually the same function as a supportive loan, it is suggested that the support loans be used to cover or cover the loans that were actually to support and ensure the management of these operators, i.e. the amount of money that has been taken to cover the cost of operating. Therefore, the product must not be used for example. use support loans to pay back loans that have been taken after February to reimburse older loans, which are not considered cost of operating. In addition, there is a change in local tax payment laws on capital pay. There is a minor change to clarity in the 2nd issue of 2nd. Section 3. the law replaces the marketing of a structured market to avoid confusion. Then the Economic and Business Committee suggests a change in temporary law which was recently changed in terms of a change in plagion law. This is important because we agreed here, including ... untilSeptember 1st. would be electronic signatures when it comes to debt changes or bank changes, deadlines. This publication expires under the provision of temporary regulations on September 1, while the Economic and Business Committee is unanimously suggesting that this provision will be in force until the end of this year because it is quite clear that no enterprise needs to have any further pay, as well as individuals and these resources, to be able to use electronic signatures and interpretations in these topics, has proved to be extremely effective and must be considered as a future solution when it comes. I propose, chief. Mr President, after this discussion, the bill will go directly to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u76	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalise the civil rights of state from the General and Education Committee. The committee received 80 citizenship applications in the spring council at the 150th legislature, but according to Article 1. Section 6. The Act on Icelandic Civil Rights is legally granted to the General Assembly of Citizens. The committee suggests that candidates and 17 applications will be granted citizenship this time in the Senate document.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u77	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a change in bill proposal to legalize various laws involving property rights and rights. The nominee is very thorough, but I'm going to do a little good over the 8th par. which may have been the best subject for our discussion, yet I'm going to skim a little in a big one, trying to shorten my speech in the light of circumstances. But first, to change the rights and rights of real estate which are being referred to as Minister's parole. In 1st. The bill is proposed to change the rights and rights of real estate. They even turn. that Icelandic financial companies registered in public will receive annuity leave of Article 1. such as individuals and legislators in the EEA but also a Regulation on the right of foreigners who agree to the EEA Convention or the European Free Trade Association Convention to gain possession or use rights for property. In terms of the change in terms of the terms of the synonyms, the greater part, of what was criticized, is that if it did not keep information on purchase prices, unless it is stated in a document that no remuneration of property is involved, it is important that information on the purchases of markets be made available on the basis of views of translucency as well as to support defenses against the financial and financial resources of terrorism, as discussed. ... topreservation of the government tax manager. In Comb 4. As a result of a change in the law on registration and evaluation of real estate, a view was found to hide Iceland's National Constitution to determine the registration of property boundaries, national boundaries and fossils. It is intended to review legislation on the borders and registration of the country and move to modern outlooks and is intended to support such revisions. In the 5th. is provided for the change in target regulations 1st. A bulldozer. In the treatment of the matter, there was a lack of analysis of how the change affected other laws of the earth and their interpretation. Furthermore, comments were made that it seemed that the bill was not intended to support tourism as a future branch in the country. The bill's targets would be too open and vague and evaluable for what kind of plans other than food production and traditional agriculture would be considered incorruption. The foundation is for the wording of the law to bring forth more clearly the interests of the law to protect. The change such as this does not have a significant impact on the other existing laws of the earth, in the opinion of the Ministry of Presidency. The main item depends on the importance of tourism and the changes proposed to Article 5. &lt; 1/100) &gt; &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.001 in areas where policies such as urban development, protection and sustainable land use will be increased below the target and will further explain this. In particular, this is only what has to do with agriculture, as normal because many of the earth's laws especially turn to agricultural and cultivated land or cultivated land. And here the emphasis is that long-term interest in the state and the public will be guided by the interpretation and implementation of the laws of the earth as well as that social interests are bound by the use of land and agriculture at any given time. However, more is involved in strengthening the wording of the law, such as the wording of the Law. The local community requested, and it is restored to its former outlook, as presented in a draft of consultations. Seven. published by Jehovah's Witnesses. Based on the work route and innovation memo, more shares are being made to 7th. ... willpassoutand refer to the material under consideration of Article 15. The bill. To the 8th team. The bill, which may have been the most extensive, is required to obtain a Minister's approval for the provision of real estate that falls below the surface of the earth in more precise cases. The arrangement was somewhat critical and even critical. Look at the size limit. The view was that the government should have prenuptials rather than that a minister would receive so vastly large a power in terms of real estate exchange on the basis of free assessment. There were comments that a minister was permitted to agree with conditions where the force on the ground was likely to limit its use and thus reduce its value and so on. This could have a negative effect on international investments in tourism in Iceland. Concerns were made that remuneration from the Ministry could be reduced and resulted in loss of stakeholders and the food traders. It is a burdensome limit to the provision rights of the land and could include a limit to the rights and rights of work based on a constitution. There was also a view that the directive was not compatible with EEA principles on medium-sized, law-sure and bans on discrimination. The Commission's memo says that if there is any impact on the market prices of real estate, it is considered insignificant if there is any impact on the market prices and allows for an annual estimate of the scope of the provision of about 40-◯50 cases, while the limits of the law are clearly set. The viewpoint of a minister is clearly defined as "the minister's viewpoint. " to look at applications assessment. In view of the recent discussion in the community, one of the main objectives of this law is that it can be helped to prevent predictions of land trade and agriculture and that enough access to land is essential for agriculture and agriculture. Similarly, agri-environment schemes can be limited by agri-environment schemes. The limits of the law are narrow and will be more likely to support the development of diverse and competitive agriculture, as I say, and, along with the recent development of the work in the future, rather than the rest. The Regulation complies with the relevant rules of the Constitution and the EEA Convention, as assessed by the Ministry, and in the Commission's guidelines for the buying of agricultural land since 2017, it is assumed that the State can legally establish consent, such as those that include a team 8. The majority of the items per capita, according to the 125th paragraph. The EEA Convention has no effect on the terms of the Convention on the Orders of Possessions. So such rules in the law of contracts fall into the ground beyond the merits of this contract. The majority of the items can only be seen by a-joint 8 gr. In accordance with EEA principles and being included within the scope of the EEA Convention for the legislation on the order of ownership rights, including On Earth, natural resources and other real estate rights, to the extent that these issues fall on another level under the EEA Convention. Then it takes more part to go for the rule of appendage of section 8. has the best chance to reach the target and not go beyond what is necessary. They believe that the majority of the stipulation is consistent with a constitution and is dedicated to the grammatical views as well as to the general limitation of a provisional authority in certain cases. The majority believe that a minister's authority is sufficiently limited, as a minister is bound by views of 9 and 10 mg. apparitions 8. The bill. Other than that, the majority agree with the views traced into the report by the bill, including section 4.5.3. Then it was noted that the law did not appear to differentiate between lawbreakers depending on whether agriculture was used or not. Ideally, it would be preferable to aim the approval of a minister to a country that would be well- fallen for agricultural production, not for any farm, regardless of the conditions in the country. With chapters 6 and 11. The bill is suggested that the term geologic law be reserved for agricultural activities. The concept of agriculture is defined as a bed in the law and is not limited to farming or farming. The majority does not consider it a reason to limit the agreement of a minister to a country that is well fallen for agricultural production and right to protect the interest of the bill is not limited to agri- land or to agrienvironmental land but also to natural resources below and on the surface of the earth. In addition, comments were made at the size limits specified in the provision, but opinions of both lower or higher criteria were observed. I'd like to make sure that the bill is including, as I said earlier, to work against fortune-travelism with land and natural resources on and below the surface of the earth and the integration of this quality. The majority consider the size of the bill to be critical compared to the available data on the size of the ground mentioned in section 2.2.1. in a report. There is no evidence, however, that the size limit will be reviewed when further information is available and if there is experience and basis for this. It was then pointed to the conjunction between the synod and the forced sale of the bill's regulations. In this way lack of perspective may lead to damage to the terms of the directive. In terms of interaction with forced traffic sales, this can lead to affecting the ultimate rights of the mortgageholders and thus the failing of the creditors of real estate. The Ministry notes that the lack of a preview of land ownership and land size is an exposé of a more comprehensive problem. The terms of the bill include ... tosetitup. Then, in accordance with the requirements of the bill, the Commission is not expected to play a surveillance role on other matters except those they can use in a simple way in a plagiarism, as they have been. In the case of forced sales, the Ministry does not consider that an exorbitant sale will be a general exception to the standard of the agreement. In addition, it may be expected that the removal of applications for a provision following an forced sale would be generally rapid taking into account the circumstances. The bill is part of a reexamination that is now taking place on aquifers and their interaction with other laws. However, the importance here is to enable the Commission to carry out their roles and to provide the necessary tools and tools. The majority of the items stress the need to respond as far as it is needed, as it is stated, to the 54th environ men in charge. aquifers, forbidding Congress to inform communication documents on property of laws unless the regulations of the law have been established. The majority feel that they have met some extent with the views, the acquisition of consent for forced property, in the case of business banks, savings, and credit companies, and refer to them for a 4. apparitions 8. The bill. Comments were shown to require consent if the user dish was longer than the age of five, including from the Farmers, etc., as well as the obligatory omission of documents relating to the establishment or extension of property over the past five years. Five years was thought to be too short and not allow enough space, e.g. if a landlord needed or was to attack an investment. The majority suggest a change in rent time for seven years instead of five. For a detailed discussion of the total share, which can be more difficult in terms of more than one set of criteria than the above, since the country's partners do not necessarily have a range of hectares or markets played within each partner country, but they are all equal in their property ratios and take the entire application rights. And it is worthy that the scope of this law is relatively narrow and not estimated that there are many cases each year. Four. apparitions 8. it came up to the opinion that the provision of real estate between partner members should be generally abdicated to the minister's consent. The Ministry of Presidency notes that such an exception would include a full dilation and may, for example, be expected. This means that real estate between partners with completely designed purposes and activities would be excluded from competitiveness. In view of this, the larger part does not consider it a reason to include the exception of a partner in these substances. It was stated that the terms of the Minister's approval were too ecstatic and vague and did not agree with the EEA's legislation. The majority feel that the viewpoint is sufficiently objective and clear while the nature of the case according to the case would require a minister to apply it in individual cases. In contrast, no. 98/2003, it is put in the relevant administration authority to take a position on applications for the permission of exposition of property with reference to objective and summer evaluable views. There is no other way to see that this system has been established to meet the EEA Convention in this respect and it will be stated in 10 mgr. apparitions 8. that a minister should generally not agree if the recipient has right and linked persons for property or property which totals 10,000 acres or more in size unless the applicant shows that he or she has a special need for more land space because of the proposed use of real estate. This does not really include a roof, as discussed. My duty is to activate if the recipient of property rights over property and linked persons share a country, as I said, over a certain size limit. So the directive includes, not a clear roof, but a separation of the approval of a minister for the arrangement of property in the case of the arrangement. The EU Commission's guidelines from 2017, for the purchase of agricultural land, are expected to include two types of land restrictions for the State, including To resist prophesying by land, and the consecration of tradition. On the one hand, it can be clearly a climax to how large areas of land one or related persons can possess and, on the other, separate government licenses for land purchases over a particular size limit. Later, as well as the easier way to do this, this article laid the groundwork. Furthermore, alternative measures are considered to be different from those of the bill's consent rule, e.g. Farm or farm obligations, rural premiums, minimum time of possession, and new forms cannot be considered sufficient to achieve the objective of the bill. "B" Unit 8. it is suggested that certain legislation that directly owns property rights or real estate rights that fall under the range of land law be obliged to report the company file of the state tax managers, including about, directly and indirectly, as well as about the real owner or owner in the sense of a law on how to act against money theft and the funding of terrorism. This was shown by the treatment of the case points on the importance of informing information about the real owner regardless of whether or not it has been reported at previous levels on the basis of these legislation and under it we take in the greater part and put it into practice. Regarding land change, the Ministry's memorandum says that late stages will be attacked, and the work is started, taking a look at both the entire Earth's laws and its laws on other laws. Organizational laws, and its guide must improve the integration of rural planning and the role of the Ministry of Agriculture in the process and the Ministry agrees that national legislation is important. 13th. it suggests that the rights of the court will always be required to have the hearing of documents that include the establishment or review of certain rights of property or rights that fall below the realm of ground law. Thus, the majority suggest that changes in this article are made so that it does not apply to hunting partners'contracts for use by hunting rights, and it shows that such use agreements are according to the General CREEP regulations for their protection of justice, such as the non-fiction third person. For a more detailed discussion of the requirement for reforms of the forced sale, see paragraph 14. and I'm not going to go over her here. In the 15th. it is assumed that a minister will be authorized to issue a Regulation that will determine the views of the country's administration and after events of the land owner's obligation to identify, light and evaluate, depending on the impact on agriculture, on the request for agrienvironmental solution, land change and national partnerships, according to Article II. and IV. section of the earth. Agrienvironment schemes are also discussed. And it is stated in a memo from the job and innovation to the Committee that it has failed to issue this Regulation but certainly should continue to shape the guidelines for the classification in agreement with the specific parties and that we make adjustments accordingly. 16th degree. The bill is suggested to be punished for violations against the law, not just against individuals and to judge for which offenses are to be punished on grounds of 56 p.m. A bulldozer. Then there was a viewpoint on the clearness of the penalties from the local district attorney we're taking under and we believe it's right to maintain internal harmony and that this is an open warrant. And taking into account the 1st mg. Sixty-niner. The Constitution on the clearness of the penalties is not sufficient by the Committee on Article 16. we will be listed as being guilty of specific violations against the laws, if there is no absolute count, and therefore we will make adjustments. Finally, a dignified president, the Commission, presented a view that it is desirable to be given a reasonable lead period and that it needs to provide institutions, preferably national tax managers, the time to prepare the project according to the bill. So, more than that, there is no basis for the law to take effect, but to meet the dominant issues of the government taxpayer contributes to changing the time point of information to the national taxpayer to the 1st act of 3.mg. B-joins 8. so that information according to the regulations would be provided on February 1 each year. Thus the information would be provided at the first month of January / February 2021. Finally, the majority suggest minor modifications in wording for correction and correction. A respectable president. In the above, the majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the changes mentioned in the committee opinion. For this, the one that says here, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and what. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Silja Dögg Gurnar's Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, and Steinunn, the Þóra of Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u78	A respectable president. Yes, there are a lot of things to do with this. This is a huge thing that I think should have been treated better, received at the table, and worked with the data that have been observed by various committees that have been appointed precisely to take possession of land, how large they can become, and how extensive they may become in one party. Since then, other people have wanted to draw close to them based on nationalities. We are opposed to the development of soil issues in such a way that it mattered to where the passport comes from. That's not my question here. My question here for the change of motion. I'm trying to figure it out. You're right to point out that I'm not a member of the General and Education Committee. One of these perks in the government bill is that a waiting list culture is being formed here again. Some time ago, this waiting list culture in the councils where people came into the Ministry, in the council, in the Ministry of Directories, or in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and now the Department of Agriculture, was to be paid. And the barter involved getting a minister's approval from buying possessions. I would have considered it wise to put general authority on earth, general rules, general authority. What I fear, as it was suggested by the government, is that there will be a state of mind and, as if we have seen the last disturbance in this government, that it will depend on the strength of our relationship with a minister at any time whether there is a payment in the matter or not. That is why I would like to receive a better explanation from what happened. A member of the Committee and the head of the committee, whether or not the committee made a precise change in this matter and whether the arrangements for the matter to go before a minister for approval or for a demonstration, whether it was actually taken out, or what precise change in prazole is being made by the Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u79	A respectable president. I thought that was an interesting approach. Senator. First of all, I have to say, this case has been won for quite a while. We all know the discussion. We know that it has been a wish and a requirement, especially farmers, in the long run, that it will be achieved. The earth's affairs are not here to be considered, and where do people come from? It doesn't matter whether we're talking about Icelandic rich people, if we can put it as if we're going to raise up Earth or people from abroad. However, this has to be controlled by all the rights we perform in this country, such as Europe. I do not appreciate these indignities that a person needs to have contact with a minister in order to get his affairs going and that this is some form of a waiting list culture. It is not unusual to find out that there is a certain amount of pay. This is suggested to a maximum of four weeks in case a case has to come to the minister. These are general rules, and there are only a few cases each year. It can be expected that there are about 40, maybe 50, cases a year, as in the bill. I don't think I need to work out anything further here. That's very well explained. I think in a small country like Iceland we can't see a minister getting away with something like that, and I have no reason to believe that. On the other hand, if some others later find out that there is a better way and better way, then future changes will be made in that subject. But it's suggested here, and that's because we need to increase perspective over soil trade and we need to increase transparency, like a beard. A senator knows. Here we are giving governments a specific control device to do so. So I feel like we're doing a good job, and I think this bill will be appreciated by most people, anyway, I guess. No doubt some will become less satisfied, as it were, with all legal features.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u80	A respectable president. I'm not necessarily sure that everyone in Iceland is happy with this, because often and often it's also about their ability to sell their land, land they've never had a chance to get some money for before. On the other hand, several farmers, both in the South and in the East, have told me that they are afraid that some fence will be placed that will reduce their chances of getting the value of their land in real estate and on the market. But okay. It is not surprising that left green people are involved in the intervention of the Ministry. I'm not surprised, and I just respect it for what it's about. A senator who is a council leader for the left green. What surprises me is that the Independence Party brings this up, so few members of its party have expressed themselves on the subject because this factor is something the pack has fought against, i.e. This wait-list culture, putting in that there is a need to increase the overall management of normal real estate transactions between individuals and lawmakers. What kind of nonsense is this? That general rules cannot be sufficient but need to take some mountain back way into the Ministry to obtain a minister's free will. Of course it will be. It will eventually show that it matters in which the minister class is and with what connection. It is only the Icelandic reality that has been most crystalline during this terms, whether people like it or not. And I'm warning you. I want to see simple rules here. What I like about it is that they're trying to set some size limit and I'll come to that in my next speech. But I would like to warn this waiting art civilization as the government, led by the left green and with the full support of the Independence Party, is to arise here in connection with the wedding of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u81	A respectable president. Of course, if we want to go that way, we can move on from bad to corrupt everybody. I choose not to do so, and I choose to trust that those who have such positions at any time, which in this case falls under the Department of Agriculture because this is going there, are people who want to do their jobs faithfully, as I suppose they will. A senator thinks he is doing it. We've heard in the community that people don't like the giant trades that have taken place with land here in Iceland. It's just not in the community that they're at peace with each other. [[THREE: Is that what you're talking about?]] We're even. trying to get hold of it here, that's one of them. But it may well be acceptable not to agree with the unorthodox marketing principle that applies to all of this, including the above. Earth compression. I have, for example. Don't worry about it. One thing is to say, we are so nice that we are living on all these earth. We've got a tenant culture, we're making it, we're making a tenant culture, by buying an enormous number of ground, as it has been in this country, but we're so happy they're staying with people in the apartment. It even came. which has, for example, a discussion on Streng. Buying an enormous amount of land in the armed forces, that they would have had no special effect on the price of entering it. I have no idea if it's true and true, but that's what men claimed. So it is truly necessary to look for a fair price to be paid by farmers for their land, of course. However, the common farmer should not be restricted to any degree, even if this law is to be passed, at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u82	Mr. President. It has long been clear that Iceland's legislation would have to be reimbursed by the General Assembly. In this regard, there is much to consider. The issue we are now discussing is now under way. Prime Minister, who has received excellent publicity on the subject. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir considered the greater portion, and there was a special consideration of 8. G., one of the larger teams in this vast and important matter. I have nothing to add in myself, as the senator mentioned when I am on the committee's opinion and agree with it. The objective of the bill is to strengthen the legislation on land, land, and other property through changes in legal regulations for property and the use of real estate, including the earth, and the official registration of national and domestic issues. In the Treaty of the Government, the same is true. in the settlement section, with the permission of the president: 'Environment will be used to set conditions for land that take into account government policies on development based, land use and resource management.' Thus, the objective of the government in these matters has remained in existence since the beginning. In the present legal environment, over 500 million people can buy land and other property in Iceland, with the same conditions as Icelandic citizens. Our neighbors have imposed far more restrictions on the provision of real estate and trade than they do in Iceland. In Denmark, e.g. individuals who are not housebound in the country or who have lived there for a certain time to get the permission of the Ministry of Justice to gain real estate rights. Remuneration of licenses can ensure the necessary access of countries and rural communities to land shareholders to comply with the laws, rules and regulations of the main organization, regional and shared organisations. The applicant party wants to have a requirement for a buyer in Iceland, for a buyer to have lived in Iceland, at least 5 years or have activities in this country, i.e. has a direct contact with the country. In the opinion of our candidates, the purpose of the trade needs to be clear. Many goals that strengthen habitats and communities could fall there, such as farming, building a source of resources, landing, or innovation based on their unique status as cultural or natural goals. A key point is, as noted earlier, that the purpose of genies lies. It is also of utmost importance that rural society and government should be allowed access to the provision of the land. The procedure needs to be flexible enough to allow different situations to be handled in the communities and parts of the country. Mr. President. I'd like to briefly review key changes to existing legislation and the extensions shown in the forward bill at the highest level. Prime Minister. The bill suggests some changes to the existing laws on property and the use rights of real estate, political legislation, registration legislation and real estate and land law. Among the requirements, it is recommended that a minister be authorized to give non-EU sources permission to obtain possession or possession rights of property if they fail to meet the legal requirements for Icelandic citizen's rights or legal requirements in this country. Then a minister could give an individual or a non-EU attorney permission to obtain the possession or use rights of real estate for direct use in the job. If this bill is legal, the Minister will also be authorized to give a person who has a strong connection with Iceland, such as by marriage with an Icelandic citizen, permission to own property here. A change in the synonyms is proposed that information on the price of property will be included in the deed of the deed to the deed of the deed unless it is clear that there will be no return for the sold property. It is suggested that property registration and evaluation laws come with the terms of a possession file, which is part of a real estate file, including information on national property boundaries in a integrated map database. The decision is to eliminate barriers for further building of Iceland's National Publications Index. The focus on the change in mineral law in the bill is also that the laws of the law will be more detailed and detailed than now and include land use targets in accordance with defined objectives, including that land that is well- fallen for agricultural production will be used for this purpose. Residence of legal arrangements is provided so that they will only be introduced into agricultural activities as defined by the law. There is also a requirement to gain consent for a minister for the provision of long-term direct rights of possession or use to include more than five years of property, but more of the General and Education Committee considered it proper to make a change in the length of use rights and to extend it to seven years. This law is first of all: that the move is legal, that the recipient is correct, and that the members are linked to five or more real estates, listed in a legal file, and the cumulative size is more than 50 gangs, and second if the same people have property that is under land law, which is a total of 1,500 acres or more in size. The above members will also be obliged to inform governments of their ownership. Information duties under the directive will include foreign legislators and Icelandic legislators of 1/3, which are in part 1/3 or more live or indirectly owned by foreign law, financial resources or similar bodies. Mr. President. The above elements, of course, are actions that need to be handled as soon as possible. The format of the land ownership file is of utmost importance. Of course, if a record on earth is lacking and the data on property are incomplete and untransparent, we will find it difficult to improve and sharpen the conditions we would like to establish on property and business with land on land. A country list is also a prerequisite for upbuilding real estate assessments in rural areas, which are out of control. So it is vital that we accept new laws that are involved. Let us consider, then, the arrangement for organizational matters, but it is suggested that the request for land change always meets the confirmation that the change is in harmony with a current strategy. Of course, this is a very important point. There are also adjustments to legal delinquency regulations, that a minister no longer be obliged to settle legal rights that owner's wish and legal rights should not be brought down against the seditious protests of the rural government. Mr. President. Of course, country governments should be able to find a way to find out when they want to take down the legal rights. For the beginners like me, as it were, there are so many things in this bill that you would have thought was already in the law. But I'm sorry. But so I'm going to complete a discussion of the major changes that are involved in the Prime Minister's bill, the rights would be required to have the Congress announce documents on certain property rights that fall under the range of ground law, including demolitions. Mr. President. That is still a natural requirement that should have been under law long ago. One thing that needs to be strengthened is the layer of earth's wood layers. It is suggested that a minister be authorized to respond to violations of law regulations, including by requiring an obligatory sale or the inflation right of the state funds. It's all good and good. A few years ago, there was a small demand for farms. Prescient investors saw a game on the table and bought out a lot of ground. As shown by recent general discussions, some have become a source of considerable geothermals, and many are concerned about this development. Good farms are not necessarily new as such, and that is not all right, since we must agree that Iceland should aim for increased sustainable production. This reality has been happening to us for a long time and particularly recently in the discussion of the Covid-19 pandemic and national security in general. Being self-sustained about food production and thus ensuring national food security is a goal to which we should pursue and do all we can to achieve it. Maintaining and ensuring good farms is certainly our common interests. This is where the big tourist comes in. The summer in Iceland will use to explore its land and enjoy all that our beautiful nature has to offer. Just as farmers have already done in certain areas, so the public's bioavailability has been severely limited by some land, where extensive land collections have taken place. Such an example is found in the Valley of Moriscos. It may be said that it sucks to meet such a person. Mr. President. The treatment and use of the entire country are relevant to the whole country, both now and to the future. We have one of the most liberal legislations in the EEA on these issues and we could look to other countries, whether Denmark, Norway, or Ireland, in a clearer frame. It is time for lawgiver to place a clearer limit on land purchases and to discuss whether it is normal for water rights to conform to national rights. There are foreign investors investing in fifth billion in water factories. They're investing in water rights and the water resources. I'm not sure it serves Iceland's interests for a long time. We have not yet set up a rule to buy land, thereby reevaluating the legislation given 16 years ago. Then all the gates were opened, which did not improve. It is a major public benefit in the administration and management of the country and therefore cannot be agreed with the same rules for buying and selling land as on any other real estate. Mr. President. The bill we discuss now does not address all the aspects of earth's affairs that need to be changed. But it's definitely a step in the right direction, just as I've already gone over. Hv. Senator Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir proposed a resolution of a geological action plan during the autumn Council, along with the Council of Congress. The schedule is extensive, but unfortunately it has not been decommissioned here at the General Assembly during this recent session. During a state-of-the-view eulogy proposal, I don't know. The senator is appointed by the government to implement a strategy designed to ensure the possession of citizens of the land on earth in Iceland, as well as to provide further opportunities for the entire population of rural areas and the diversity of sustainable agriculture and food production in the country. The projects adopted by the Action Programme would include the rules that a defined relationship with Iceland is essential for the possession of land on land and the limitations of the number of soils owned by the same person. The article is very well - informed and, with the permission of a president, I would like to read a brief chapter from it, which says: of the government's ownership of the earth: ▪ The establishment of the government's ownership on earth and the clear goal of government possession, such as whether it is desirable for the State to have agri-environmental land, a country that is acceptable and water rights, or mainly a country that is protected from someone or all usefulness. In view of changes in land use and farming practices, a review of the criteria for government sales, including those for the current farm should be made. So says the responsibility and responsibilities of country possession: ▪ The responsibility and responsibilities of possession of the land must be taken into account, revising and following the laws on the premise of the earth. It is important that governments and neighbors can at all times reach the owner of a country or a representative of its owner because of social projects such as infrastructure or organizational work. Advocators are to be authorized to represent other owners of the land in terms of legal and family solutions, making decisions about daily business and interest care, minor maintenance, urgent necessities, and urgent measures that cannot be tolerated. In view of this, it would be proper to consider whether there was no obligation to preparatoryly reside in the rural society where the earth is. In this case, the obligation to set up societies around the earth when the owners are more than three: Then, when more than three owners are left on the ground, if they are to enter a law, it is considered to be the law to set up societies on earth, which were to be removed from the bill to become the law of the Earth. 81/2004. It is common to have a wide distribution of land, and it is difficult to reach those with it. This is especially true when the earth is no longer in the apartment. There could be simplicity and economy for land owners as well as for those who have to deal with them in legal matters, such as government officials, especially about urgent measures that cannot be tolerated. As to benets and income, transporters say: ▪ Love is a basis for dwelling on many earths in the land, and it has been for centuries. Exquisite support is still important. It is important that income from the country gives to those who choose to live in rural areas and to live in rural areas. The law must be ensured by the implementation of national income and therefore the importance of achieving and making money from society's resources is not to be separated from the surface of the earth. Mr. President. In a committee party, more than half of it was. The General and Education Committee reports that a greater proportion is suggested, in view of the workhaul and innovation memorandum, to 7th degree. ... willpassoutand refer to the material under consideration of Article 15. The bill. 7. is about agrienvironmental solution. In this regard, I would like to say that the main development of rural society is a policy on where and how to meet the needs of agricultural activities, how land use should be conducted in some areas of agriculture. Farmers also need to set a policy on what other employment functions are involved, but agriculture is available on farms. In the 5th. Realty of Earth, No. 81/2004, as follows: Agricultural or agricultural-based land, including agrienvironment schemes, a news, and whether there is a national or national possession, must not be taken to others unless it is authorized by law, dr. However, there is a limit of 6 p.m. The Ministry's memo carefully reviews the authority of rural society and the work that has taken place in the most planned recent years to improve the development of organizational issues that turn land use. In 2010, the Ministry of Employment issued a report on the use and preservation of the agricultural land. The report suggested that a national policy on agricultural planning would be established, which would be used by country governments in conjunction with a major organisation. Changes in land laws were made in 2015 that include certain duties of rural society if they desire to be changed land use. Commenting on the bill, it shows that a minister's interest in changing land use is a further matter of material concern than since then has not been achieved. Thus, the need for a review of these laws has long been considered necessary. The current national planning policy was approved in 2016. One of its objectives is sustainable use of agrienvironmental land, and measures are recommended in agrienvironment schemes. In general, a land suitable for breeding should not be reserved for other uses irreversibly. In the context of a review of real estate legislation and land led by the Ministry of Presidency in the time of the current government, the established laws of the earth were soon under discussion, and this also applies to the development of thefish. 1223, which began with the year 29 C.E. A fall. At that time, the Ministry introduced the Regulation on the Protection of agrienvironment schemes to the Management Board's website. There were seven reviews of the Regulation, including The European Union, the National Association, the Farmers, and the Forest Service. A number of conferences followed. That work led to a 15th - century conclusion. The bill would be added to current 55. g. A bulldozer. In the light of observed comments, the issue of issue was missed. As told by the Ministry of prosecuting and innovation, Mr. President, this point is said: The challenge does not rule out that some guidelines on the management of this field could be needed to base a policy plan, but it does rather look forward to a general review of national and geographical regulations. Such suggestions are aimed at the 151th legislation. If so, especially on the basis of how to adapt viewpoints to the protection of agricultural interests into the organizational process. The review also shows that, whatever the case, the decision has been made to continue to shape agrienvironmental guidance in consultation with the public and that the guide is available in the autumn. Therefore, the Council has no longer intended to issue agrienvironmental protection directive toward the expected level of Article 15. The bill, as well as the 7th paragraph. and b-aide 9. Gr., but they feel that it is proper to work in a different way. Mr. President. I'm not going to keep my case further this time, but again I want the Agency to want this case to be settled in a positive way at this spring council. We also feel that there will be a great deal of importance in earth's affairs, which are specifically listed in the synonym. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her powerful speech. I'm wondering, not only is it really important that we bring proper laws around our lands, but I'd like to ask why. A senator on the authority being established there, allowing agents outside the EEA even to buy land. You can think of that rich billionaire, Ratcliffe. I don't know how many percent of Iceland has become, maybe I know why. That's for a senator. Will the British have to apply for annuity ensuing at Bfenit to buy land on the land or is it just still inside, according to the EU access?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u84	A respectable president. I think me and what. A senator can agree that there is a great need for improved soil management in Iceland. It surprises you when you think only of these matters as to how careless we have really been about this series of issues in view of how much is below. Our resources depend on and on the future also, so it is vital that we add to the legal arrangement. This bill is a step toward reaching a better level of unbridled ground collection. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Goland mentioned the rich man Ratcliffe, who has been in the news a lot, but he is not the only one who's been gathering the earth. The social discussion that has been taking place in Iceland for a long time has reflected a little concern that people in general are concerned about this. Part of this matter includes limiting how much land a person can own, how many hectares a country, and how resources are taken into account. Also, there's a problem. The job board on fishing rights, water rights, and other factors that we need to consider, what's underneath. For Biffit and British citizens, it is natural to think of it because British exits have just come true. There is something that will continue to work with them on their status towards the EEA in general, not just this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u85	Thank you. The senator's answer. I didn't mean to come up, but you turn on the pervert when you wonder that this fine British rich man would come in here because of our EEA deal and we hadn't paid for anything. As I understand why. A senator is being tried, I don't know, putting a firm roof on what a rich man or anyone can have a lot of land. It's important, and I really want to agree with it. Senator, I don't quite understand why we don't bring legislation that makes Iceland owns all the resources on this planet so that we don't have to see that people are just collecting land, whether they're buried with salmon rights or land that may have water rights. In fact, we have floundered to sleep in terms of maintaining a protective hand over our own resources. So this bill is certainly a step in the right direction. Yet, I feel that there is quite a lack. I can't figure it out, either. A fine British rich man can continue to gather the earth, despite the fact that the British left the European Union. I don't really know what the purpose is with the authority to the highest degree. The prime minister is now seeking now, being able to expand the earth's sales to others outside the European Economic Area. I understand that with individuals who are married here at home and other things, and even going to live here, of course they should have the right to have the right of it, as it were, of course. But I still have a lot to figure out if there are no limits to what, for example. Britain can buy a lot of Iceland now after leaving the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u86	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. It is very important that we discuss these matters. Much depends on this party. The future simply depends on. The Senator was even. wondering if there were limits to the collection of British citizens or only those in the European Union or in the EEA or whatever it is. But we're talking about the fact that there will be limitations in the gathering of everyone. This bill implies that conditions are set on how much land can be made on one hand. That's clear. As I tried to trace my speech earlier, I don't know if it's worked properly, there are also other things in this bill that are very important and need to be done, e.g. The possession file. The fact that the earth is properly recorded has been very important to progressive fishermen and me. It is the natural basis for all the extraterrestrial activity that we can assume that the earth is correctly recorded. It takes e.g. To update real estate food in rural areas. It's all going around. The real estate on some property may be 30 years old or so, there is nothing to say. We have to be okay, all this registration, but it's not okay. When dealing with soil, the deed of the sale is also a factor. Everything must be on the table so that you can't be playing with these things. As I say, we've got everything underneath us. It's Iceland that's under, our country, so we have to take good care of ourselves and make it better, start with this registration right away, and get a better grip on this suit group of strong legislation. We're far behind our neighbors in this regard, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u87	V.E.G. President. We're discussing this enormously important earth thing, which we often call in the General and Education Committee. I have to say, I have some questions about that. In particular, I feel the need to work harder on agriculture and how farmers will get out of it. However, it also seems to be quite a good thing, e.g. changes in land ownership and provision information, seems to be good, and is specifically mentioned in the list of parts. But I feel that I'm in too much trouble, and I think this is too big and important a case that can't be too rushed. I want to say this in spite of the obvious fact that you've been in, what to say, deep work on the case. Nevertheless, I have to state that only five meetings of the General and Education Committee have discussed the matter, along with other matters we have. On April 28, we received the case, and then June 23 was mentioned as ready. There were reviews, e.g. From Iceland's community, who criticize the authority of the local press. We need to take a closer look. By permission of a president, the local community says: ▪ In the opinion of the organization, it is essential that an independent investigation of the effects of such limited rules can have on land worth and bets as well as the consequences for those who have them in relation to their commitments. It seems quickly to me that the European Union of the United States is saying something about this call for an assessment of the effect. The relationship also highlights a number of negative reports, and it calls for greater harmony. We've heard that there is more work to be offered to the jury, and it's the same in a memo from the Ministry of Presidency. Finally, I would like to say that it must underscore the importance of hurrying. I'll make it count for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u88	A respectable president. It's a big deal. This is the most basic thing we're gonna talk about here. It's about politics, which is a matter of property over the earth and with the resources they have. This is not to say that these matters have not been discussed before. That was even. ... in a report by the committee, that since 2012 I remind myself, under the leadership of Katrín Olga, the daughter of Jóhannesdóttir, who was organized by the personal minister of the Independence Party in that government. Since then, committees have been appointed to discuss this precisely, property integration, how it affects the use of the earth, public interests, and so forth. But there has really been little that has been done precisely with that conclusion. We can fully see this when we listen to a conference discussion, including the U.S. Here, although they do not want to admit it, the underlying fear of foreigners is, of course, because whether one likes it or not, foreigners have been mentioned, as well as rich men. There is no precise definition of this target line, which rich people are exactly meant or what sort of factors humans want to look for to solve this problem. The fundamental factors and goals on this matter are very noble. There is no doubt about it. But there's not enough coverage. They're running this case through, this fundamental issue of public interest. I believe that we should be careful not to pay any rules that limit the principle of free trade or not to serve public interests because of incidents or circumstances. When governments, like today, are going to place certain limitations on the rights of property and on the means of having a provision of humans over their earth and possessions, we must carefully step to the earth. This does not mean that the combination is not done. For example, a country's area of sales may be very high, as in other areas. We know what compression means. Compulsion means that competition can reduce competition, it can inhibit primament and innovation and procrastination. We can also see this in other ways. As far as I'm concerned, it's worth it to be able to establish a general set of rules that protect the public interest associated with the compression, which is related to trying to defend the nation against the negative effects of country compression. Then I'll say, "Second rules that serve the public interest." Hence, it is wise to examine the size limits on what individuals and legislators can collect. Because much cooperation and authority over the earth can do just as I have said before. Where can we look? We can, for example. look from land use to the use of the marine resource. I'm not gonna hide it, and I've done a million things here that we need to sharpen transparency in possession of the water. We need to make further adjustments on how much possession can be available to each individual and on the other hand in a fishing road. The same applies to the earth. I don't think it's unnatural to pay attention to this and to take into consideration what individual persons can control over many earths, as is, in some sense, trying to get through here. But, as far as I'm concerned, the rules in the bill are being passed to the public. Although we can agree on the general rule that we want to prevent the integration of ownership on earth, there are other rules that follow this bill, which, in my opinion, are contrary to this main purpose. First, we want the rules of possession on earth in a manner that we also want the rules to be so that they do not differ according to nationality. It's what they've been saying that I've just weighed the members of the board, that they're saying it's directed to foreigners. We know exactly what the basis is, as I told you before, what the motivation is just to listen to the talks. Impulsively, too many foreigners are obtaining the land instead of the approach it in a general way. The general way is that we can prefer to limit property, and we have experience with it in the fishing road. At the same time, we need to establish general rules about how we limit our property rights and rights of authority. We must not forget that whether foreigners or the Icelanders gather earths, the organizational authority remains at the General, the environmental guidelines set out by the Council, and other regulations, such as the public's right to traffic the land, are also in the hands of the Council. I'd like to point out that our agent is in trouble. General Education and Education Committee, huh? paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir, Guindaldótttir, has drawn this up very well, both in articles and in comments on the subject. It's very clear that we in Correction, we want general rules to be established, that things will be done better, and that we are willing to make a commitment to win the case better, to take the biggest baits because it's such a big deal, it has to do with the public interests of the world. As we present it, accepting the matter is a further risk, and I strongly warn against it. In answer to that, I even warned. To the Ministerdom, this waiting art culture that had largely been eliminated in the 1990's and early years. Then they tried to get the Ministry and the waiting list men who were in charge of government decisions. And I find it hard to see it restored here. Therefore, I would like to point out that the vast majority of the comments about the subject are not necessarily that rules should be made but that the matter is neglected. The case has not been considered sufficiently, as it is stated here. The results of other committees mentioned in this article are remarkable. There is some stress, and even some member of the United States Army within the left - handed movement at the time of this offer. These are the notes that can be drawn out, but I would like to say first, that the matter needs to be done much better. I think we can all agree about. It is possible to unite in a maximum of the earth, which each individual and citizen can have. The EEA contract cannot be passed, and conditions should not be related to the citizenship in any way. There's no doubt that there's a reasonable limit here. I feel like there's a mountain back road to try to rule out that foreigners or a certain group of people in this country have land. Of course, our main concern is how we continue to use the earth. When we read the bill, we are talking about the use of earth, land, and land that need to be strengthened, strengthened, and improved, and we agree with it. But it is as if the bill authors have forgotten an important industry that is now in a form of apathy, i.e. Tourism. Having it and trying to build it up are key to farmers in many parts of the country. In this regard, I would like to point to the comments of the Association of Tourism, as well as the findings of the National Association. They even park. to make decision-making and investigation of rural communities rather than Ministers. I think that's a very understandable observation. They also say that a minister is entrusted with too extensive power to decide whether much of the land business is allowed to happen. I think it's something we must take into account and go better. It also raises doubts about whether or not laws in the bill can conflict with the Constitution's holding rights. 72.g. as it has been interpreted by the European Court of Human Rights. Thus, the comments to the bill are many and weigh heavily. In my opinion, there is a great question as to whether the Constitution's rights are broken here or not. When the matter is thus prepared, I feel that it is worth our consideration and even more so as to see how much authority a minister gets at each time. They try to minimize it and say that it may be just a few things. These may be up to 50 cases a year. As noted in some comments, a minister may drop by 40,6,50 times a year. It's not just some perfunctory thing that the government groups, independent party, forwarding party, and left green, are doing. It is not some perfunctory, but it is a large and large matter that has to do with the expansion of the Minister's affairs and it may be countering the Constitution's rights. So I'm begging you to take your time, don't run it through. This is not some Covid thing. It would probably be an effort to make room for this to affect the interests of the crown virus. But this is not the case. We know that there is a particular pressure, and there is a certain turmoil, especially within one of the board's members, with left greens. They say it has to be run through that it is better to leave this matter out of the picture before the next council starts. As a result, we may be left with a very damaged total laws on the exchange of property on earth. It is, in fact, completely unacceptable now that we have both the tools and the tools. There's no hurry. None of the administrative parts can help us to see what timing it is. What exactly is the situation other than pressure and unrest within one of the board? Meanwhile, the other two members of the board, an independent party, and an forwarding party, are going to pass, overcoming a higher minister's office, and at the same time, they may go against the legal rights of the Constitution. I'm sorry, and I have to declare my great disappointments with this drive and the great pressures they are putting on the Allied Council here at the finish line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u89	A respectable president. This is a very important and important matter that concerns the interests of the whole community and also concerns the interests of those who will follow us, our descendants who will live here on land. We know that land will become ever more precious as time goes on after mankind's becoming increasingly acidified by climate impacts, causing people to go to more and more in the North Hemisphere and in such areas as Iceland. Having an area of land today, which may appear to be of little value, may bring a great deal of profit after a long time, and the same is true of the water and other resources. It is also dealing with real problems, or we may be able to say, rather, a real threat to the interests of society, which is that the land and the resources it brings to too few hands, with the possible consequences of access being limited to the quality of the country and the quality that we have used for centuries to take for granted the public. It is also taking place here that in recent years, people who have collected land have been able to buy land. It has been the national sport of Icelandic princes for centuries, i.e. In recent years, we have seen the formation of organizations that regularly purchase land and land. We know that this could be a social threat if land and other goods become too tight on the hands of a few. So I think we need to consider these matters. We need to work at handling these matters. I completely agree with what has been presented in the case of others. Congress officials do, and it is not later advisable to start that work, for there surely was too much inconsistencies in this regard. Nevertheless, I feel that there is some debate about the matter and that there is a way of doing it. The General and Education Committee suggests that we are not quite ready to complete this matter. Some comments have been extremely negative. We have received reviews from those who do not consider it too far enough to limit the collection of soils of few individuals and then have received reviews from others who believe that this is a means of possession of the Constitution and that buying land is far too far off. There is, like always, probably some intermediate, and I'm not sure that we have found the right balance, and I'm not sure that unless the discussion has to take place, it needs to develop as it is said, and that we may have to ask for some other reason, but the one she's done a little better, which is the premise that there is always a purchase of a British rich man, and the business that they buy, and that's supposed to have to be built on some other basis, but it may not be spoken of in a more general way, so that we're willing to react in a particular way only too widely, which is too large to many. This is about the market law and how we anticipate that the market law operates in our society. I think very few of us are at the point of wanting to eliminate the market laws and that the market is not allowed to apply anywhere, but we are divided into a bit by the way we view the market being used. Of course, the market never, not in this rather than in other matters, being uncouth, unblameable, and it is not the right way to give all business free without any supervision or any restrictions. However, I believe that this is the kind of talk that there has been a development of commercial life in rural areas and commercial rural areas for cleaning that money has been missing. The money has been missing, in fact, the fact that the market laws get a little looser. I think it's risky to grab too much into it when we see efforts in the direction that money is becoming more visible in scattered settlements with its structure. As I'm looking at this matter, it seems to me that there's too much central management policy here, and I think the central control has been a particular lesion in the development of a job life in the rural areas and in the scattered areas of the country, and I think it's exorcises by the thought that it needs to be preceded by someone who knows better. It breathes in their thinking in 8 g. The bill covering the Minister with great authority to set up such a business. I may feel that the main points of this should be about, and I think that we all agree on that, the practical use of the land, and the sustainable, wholesome, beautiful way that it is cultivated and new. Moreover, we need to be careful that property does not become too tight. The problem lies in the foundation of making sure that our resources do not collect on too few hands, i.e. water rights, fishing rights, and so on. I think in order to cope with this problem, perhaps you could dust off the new constitution. In the old constitution, in the dominant constitution, the one we received from our fatherly hand, as the law says, there is nothing to be found except the rights of property that some have spoken about. But in the bill of the new constitution, there are regulations that could do us in this. It says to make a photo, with the permission of a president: ▪ A national possession of resources can be passed under certain depth from the surface of the earth. In the bill of the new constitution we're now going to agree with, but hopefully we'll do sooner than later on, with the permission of a president: The natural resources of Iceland, which are not subject to private rights, are common and lasting property of the nation. No one can get them or rights associated with them for a possession or permanent use, and they must never be sold or mortgaged. Directors of legislature and executives submit to the nation's authority, custody and provision of the resources and rights. It is not permitted directly or indirectly to be handed over to other people's rights over earth's heat, water by active force and groundwater, as well as academic rights, owned by the State or by members entirely owned by it. The same applies to rights above water, ground temperature, and minerals on the state of the world beyond minimum rights for household and agriculture. It seems to me that there may be a framework that could be used to create a legal environment that could be meant to protect the nation's resources, the combined resources of the nation, will not fall into a few hands. I believe this has become too short and a little debate so far and that it has gone too narrow. I'm concerned about the negative comments the case has received, and it seems to me that there may be too much central control to resolve these issues. All this said, it's true that I think it's a good thing and I think it's important to deal with this and that we react and try to create a legal environment around this business.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u90	A respectable president. I want to thank you for your speech. I would like to make it clear that I strongly agree. A senator about the fact that the bill is too much media control. It's going to be way too much media control as soon as I agree with it as possible. A senator said that we must resist the development of resource compression, whether in the sea route or in other fields related to resource use. Then all such restrictions must be based on their involvement in the public interest. In this regard, it is most important to bring in a clear, unregistered set of resources in a constitution. Unfortunately, it is a requirement, in my opinion, that the prime minister and the government groups in addition to the Central Party are working in ways that are not designed to contribute to the protection of public interest. But okay. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. Before 2008, and before collapse, certain societies owned by Icelanders who collected land, and there was no talk of limiting or staging general rules about it. Then came foreigners. Of course, it's underlying, whether you like it or not. What matters most to me is that I was trying to prove to you earlier that we need to set general rules for the sake of the public interest in the exchange on earth. I want them to be as freest, but they can be founded on a foundation for the sake of public interest. Counts 'em out. A senator, and if he agrees with me in that the interests of the people are primarily in the new country, and that we could better define public access to the country itself? Does he consider their interests to be well - paying on this bill, or does he feel that in view of his better view of the matter, there is a chance for us to do better?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's excellent question. I agree with what she says, and I may not have much to add. We're used to it, I think, at least everyone who's my age, can go anywhere in the country, stop, climb up the hill, and go to the hearth. We're used to being able to settle into the forest and into the bush and stretch the scent and experience it as our country. We are used to being our country and free of charge. This is a very important feeling that we must protect, and these are important rights that we must protect, that we have all free journeys around the country. Of course, this access to public interests is important. Hv. A senator took note of just any prejudice or prejudice against foreigners in this law. I'm not going to say about it, and I'm absolutely convinced that the great strawberry that happened before a crash would have benefited from some kind of legislation and surveillance. Not all of them have fallen to the grave with the way they were treated, and surely not all of them will not tolerate the most rigid demands on business. So I don't think it's worth any one of your people. The important thing is that there are no too few hands, resources, and land.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u92	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I think the big issue is primarily how we use the earth, how we use it on our own earth, is what matters to us, and I feel that we will take that exact discussion. In my speech earlier, I pointed out that the focus has not been kept sufficiently in traditional agriculture. It should have been better on the bill. And the same is true of the new branch of farmers, a travel service. It would have been necessary to cover that area in an effort to use this Icelandic reality today regarding our country, as well as the public interests of the general rule of the integration of power and property on earth, which we all agree on. I feel that there is a lack of analysis of how we use our land, since that is really our big issue, especially in a environmental way. I feel that the environmental protection and the environmental logic are lacking in the case of the government. I'm not in a full-scale educational committee, but what? A senator is, and after reading 80 percent more negative, I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether he had relied on him to finish the case, to say to the government: We can finish the case before Christmas or for some particular date, but on the grounds of making better reviews made. I believe there is something else that unites us here in the Senate Hall on that. It is not enough effort to achieve the integrating will of the Lawgiver. I'm pretty sure it could be done with a little more time and a little better and more careful work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with this, and yes, I think I would have trusted to settle the matter, perhaps before the next Christmas, but I'm not going to nail down some date with it. But there would have been plenty of other issues to approach. Hv. A senator mentions environmental protection, natural protection, which is supposed to be self - righteous approach in all matters and also from traditional land uses, traditional agriculture, and many aspects of agriculture. The point is, this matter is a concern that a certain person is gaining so much land and that he is a foreigner, and may only be true even if that person was actually exemplary in defending the land he has bought and which means that he has little to tell. But he has been very wealthy in these trades, and he has raised people to wonder if this is the best way to do it because he will one day fall away and have descendants, and they have descendants, and all of a sudden this land belongs to people who have no connection with it and have no feelings for it, and they have no idea what to do with it. This may already be true, but in that case it is domestic heirs of a country, even 200 people with some farm somewhere and they have no idea what to do with it. In such cases, the markets can be activated to create valuables from such a country that may already be worthless.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u94	Mr. President. I allow myself, despite the circumstances here at the council, to get a little involved in this discussion, but I could not be at 1st. The point. This was suggested at the beginning of the Covid argument and was not an option for me to participate in that discussion. Still, there are some things I would like to intertwin. In all the main points, I'd like to say, on the matter of payment, that it involves bringing down the information on land sales, land sizes, organization and registration that I think is a great improvement. Second, an attempt is being made to enter the earthly realm of the land today. I am not necessarily convinced that this is the best way to go, but let us see how. I don't think any of the restrictions or rules that are placed over the country's heads are affected, I'm not particularly concerned about that. My opinion is that the independence of property farmers is the best localised form in the countryside. There is no need to draw any more proof of this than just to examine the story. When farmers in Iceland begin to become self-employers in general, up to 1900, farming begins to grow in rural areas. That's just the point of all the approach I want us to keep in mind in Iceland's soil trade. Well, well, there's fate's gray face, that the person standing here is a descendant of the poor tenants of a great owner who gathered the ground on Snæfells. In fact, it was a very good country ruler, and very well spoken of it in my family, but it is not always default. The worst thing that can happen is that we have more and more tenants in Iceland. That's the worst situation you could ever get into. That's why I would've wanted to get close to this intervention, or change of land sale regulations in Iceland, much more based on the terms of those who are going to live in the country and build it. You see, the approach we have here is not necessarily the only approach we need to approach. More than that, we need to examine the taxable environment of the agricultural trade. I have good hopes, Mr. Honorable President, that one small body of Congress here, about the treatment of sales and the treatment of the stock markets, may be even more invasive and more secure for those who want to sit and continue in business than for the changes here. There are things in the business environment where farmers and families spend their life saving, which could be better applied to ensure continued farming and farming. For this, people have been closed for way too long. I'm not going to go into any more of this for the sake of time, but there is another aspect that I miss from this change, but it was certainly not in the original bill. For I had spoken these things concerning men, that they should put their arms on the duties of the owners of the land. We may find it in the law of an apartment building, and in other laws under which we are developing, those holding certain valuables have certain obligations. There is no summary, I'm not saying that there is a general need in legislation, that such things can be read in fence laws, on sea-rights laws, etc., that the duties of the landlords and, as a result, those who sit on the ground at their command. A respectable president. With my background and knowledge of this matter, it is not in itself the problem of buying these lands and of what nationality they are from. Rather, it is how they treat them and how they fulfill their duties in their communities. Keeping fences? Are they maintaining the development of a country that affects the culture of other farms? Do men fulfill their obligation as landowners to clean their lands in the fall? It would be a great step in progress to include the duties of landowners in ground - to - earth legislation. It would be in one place that if you own the earth, you have a role and you have a responsibility to fulfill it. It will be a major matter for those who may be buying dozens of soils to keep on caring for these duties, but we should not give a discount. Though humans are able to attend to farms, we cannot necessarily look with the blind eye at the fact that they do not omit their duties toward that vital property. It actually makes the whole community glued to it. There is not necessarily a price to be given on the dilly that controls the population, whether they want to continue farming in the countryside. Of course, these include communication and transportation, as well as the small and how it is possible to survive those whose land may have fallen from farming, how to herd countries in the fall, to maintain fences, and such factors that need to be acceptable. It's related to a landlord, it's a tax-based trade that I think is far more important than the precise laws of the earth itself and the limitation of property and the number of soils that humans want to fit in with. The second word says that there should be a higher freedom here, and there has been one of the greatest freedoms in Europe through trade in Iceland since 2004. However, credit institutions in Iceland do not consider all farms to be worthy of that pledge, and people are having trouble building up their lands and maintaining them. There is then another debate about agrienvironmental activity, etc., but this is still the fact of it. When I meet my colleagues, I refer to me as being in a peasant class, and they don't understand my answer when I say that I don't know how big the earth is. In our country's culture, people know about the height, almost four square feet [3 m], the size of the ground. It's just that our culture is missing. Therefore, the list of these items has probably been written down. But it also reflects an attitude toward farms that I am describing. In the United States, farmers do not always know how large the ground is, but living in these countries also find it a serious matter to have and how it is treated, and it affects people's natural hearts. That is also true here on land, there are independents who are concerned about how funerals and funeral sales have been showing us around here in the country for the past few years. I'm just making it clear that when you talk to your colleagues about global change, people in general wonder that we don't set any more demands there. So, am I speaking for the seas and the media? No, I'm not doing it. I'm talking about the management of agrienvironments, duties of landowners, duties of landowners and their environments and benefits. That's why I'm not afraid of the changes being made here on this bill and more of the General and Education Committee solves here in their committee. I'm not afraid of it, but I think people should still keep their eyes on it and continue this work because I think we've started on a very important mission to go back to this important group of subjects. I want to agree with what. The members of the council here have spoken, I think there's a lot more that unites us in these things than divides us. We must not allow some legal issue to exist here as a central control or that, on the other hand, there is some great freedom - it is primarily part of a technical matter that we need to resolve and discuss to the end. That's a fine way to start.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson has a fine speech. Hv. In effect, the senator concluded his speech on the subject of saying that this was a good first step in the road ahead to achieve in a more full and better way around the earth in a broad sense. When you read the reviews that have been received and the way the bill is and the opinion of the committee, it doesn't leave the impression that people have been especially successful in reaching out for the matter. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he feels that he has handled this first step well, and I would like to ask him why. paritaprevir Haraldur son of Benediktsson whether he thinks it would have been wise to give the case a little longer, until the fall, for example, because I think it is right, as a dog. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came in earlier, that, in most context, there is now something more that unites us than the discussion here indicates. So the question is: A senator that it might have been wise to give the council a little more time to get the work done, both with more depth and possibly by adding this bill or this work to other aspects that are being considered in this environment right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. His senator's answer is here. As a result, I say: " This is a good first step. ' I have information on the fact that the service group mentioned there has already begun to work on this subject. A respectable president. From the 2004 Law Change, if I recall correctly, when the law was changed, I had a different role then, as president of Iceland's Farmer Association, we disagreed with more of the council in the way it was then chosen. We thought we were getting off too much screws. I think that was absolutely right. Now, in 2020, for the first time, we are trying to agree on what class group we should have. I'm not going to say anything worse if a longer time had been given, but at this point I fully trusted the more part of the committee's opinion to have weighed and assessed it. For my part, I am not going to give out the proof that the case is wonderful enough to continue waiting for a while, but I would like to underscore the elements I listed in my speech and in other points and mention the group of work that has already begun. I have strong hopes that we will be able to continue to improve the laws of soil trade in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I know why. A senator is well versed in these matters, and I allow myself to state that this is a matter for the senator, including the matter of interest. with reference to previous jobs. Today's debate has suggested that about 80% of the reports on the matter are negative, and I would like to ask: "What of the reports received from sources? Is it worst that a senator was not taken into consideration? Is that the view of the Landowners, the Basis, or any viewpoint that appeared in a review process will be missed. A senator's main concern is now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u98	Mr. President. I'll thank you later, too. Senator. I'm not going to pass judgment on what I miss most about the fact that the reviews I've been sent have not been taken into account. I'm just gonna say that there are a lot of views. I'm not going to say that I agree with all the views of the National Association of Landowners or Iceland's Farmer Association, which I heard was intense. A senator may only be referring to my next visit, much like that, because we need to have the ability to look at the stage more broad than, perhaps, in that way. I'm just going to underline this: I feel that, a respectable president, if we agree that Earth is a problem and property is moving away. I'm also going to drag it in here that I feel that I have to take the lead in dealing with these assets, because it's also a big problem when owners have become many. If we were to agree on this, I think we can approach it, too, from what I was going through in my speech, how the commercial environment of the earth continues to exist and how I was living. Such frames and regulations are very common in countries around us, and they are worth taking some part of them up to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u99	Mr. President. The mountain began to be plagued and was born a small mouse. That may be the first thing that came to my mind when I ran over the bill that lies here on the side of the Government Party for a change in various laws relating to property rights and use. I think I can claim that there was more to it than that. I think I can say that, Mr. President. It was expected that the gathering of rich people in this land would be limited. Besides, it's not in this bill, I think I can claim it. This is especially not applicable to members in the EEA region. It is true that further fences are put and more defined by the arrival and purchase of non-EES parties, but when it comes to EES citizens, including Icelanders, and I'm not going to make a difference between them, there are people sleeping and worrying about this collection of individual people, often so-called rich, where they collect whole resources; I'm not going to tell the county but all the roads. This may stop normal use, e.g. In agriculture or worse, and, of course, with these purchases, you get all the good things in the country, such as the falling energy, hot water, if it should be found, right to hunt, right to study, etc., as human knowledge is known. The bill puts this on very limited limits. And I miss it. The bill itself is a good first step like that. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson put it that way. But there is no courage to limit this to any further limit to the bill. There is no boldness for the European Union, even in the case of the President Mrs. President, that many of the other northern countries, e.g. Denmark, set the collection and markets of all parties, and without regard to ethnicity. It is required that the purchase be linked to a farm, and that it exceed some size limit. The government does not have the courage to go that way. [[Up front.]] Step one? Yeah, I hope there's something else going to happen. I think that's what many people fear. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson merely came in and said that these were the means of becoming tenants in their own country, as I put it. Of course, it is possible that a local, foreign, international, and whole - and - half districts will be followed by men in their use and conduct. This is already the experience, and there are examples of it. The key is that the government does not have the boldness to go that way. She does not have the courage to go along with the other northern countries, some of whom, to limit the purchase of land. I miss it. If this is a first step, of course, I'm glad I'm expecting something more. But I don't have much comments to the bill itself, the content of it. These are mainly technical exports, and all I may have comments to say is that there is a need for a proposal to be made to a minister. There is a way to make a petition to a minister, mainly those outside the EEA. If they think of buying the earth, in case the ground should be called, which is more than three and a half miller, they need to go to ministers. I agree with someone else. Councilmen who have found that it is creating some kind of high - power minister and reacquire that they are standing in line at his front and looking for help. I think it's a lot more natural, and I agree with those members of the council who have thought that general limitations should be placed and that they should be much more narrow than here is going to be. I may not have read the bill from word to word, but I think one 10,000 acres is needed. If a person who is buying the earth for life or who lives on the ground is 10,000 acres [10,000 ha], there is something special that needs to be considered. And it is far beyond all the people which are understood of the ordinary, and far beyond, that which we here in this little land will know that the earth is gathered unto a great measure upon the hands of a few. It doesn't matter what nation they are. Of course, a clear limit should be set for everyone. I am its spokesman, and I miss it not being done. This bill comes in with drumming, Madam President. It is not as if it came from a void because members of the chair, especially from the advance class, have drawn some conclusions about how these matters are handled. The result? The result is this bill. It's very well worked, very thorough, so thorough, that you need the summer to learn about it, I think. These are some 50 pages written, very detailed. This is clearly the expertise, the most qualified experts to recommend the government, but the lack of courage. The government's losing courage. The lack of will is complete. The investments of foreign wealthy people in this country are not tried. Not with this bill. This is not a major limit to the property of rich people, which many have been calling for. There's no answer to that call. I think it is right to present it in a talk. Why was e.g. Is it not a way of limiting the right of the EEA citizens to investment in the country, as it is done elsewhere in the Northern countries, necessary to fulfill our commitment to the EEA Convention on Free Transportation, Confirm rights and services? Why had Denmark and other northern countries not gone? Because the government did not have the courage to go that way. This bill is harmless in many ways. There is progress on technical issues such as, for example. that prices need to be placed in the sale or deal. That, of course, is a good change and need. The national property file listed here is for progress, but it was set up to ensure perspective and to coordinate the official registration of land. I'll put a question mark on this with the approval of a minister, some kind of Minister's Department. But first and foremost, Madam President, I miss men afraid to take this step. They stay inside the door, they don't dare to go out, they're discouraged. This is an example. Following appeals and conclusions from individual council members, this is the answer of nothing at all. I only want the end of the line with the rest of it. paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, discussed the duties of a landowner. I agree with that. Certain obligations for maintenance rest with real estate owners who have buildings and demand that they carry it out. Lands are missing. Of course, it has to be an arrangement for landowners, some of whom may now have many to bury their own lands, i.e. Maintain fences if needed, execution, companionship, and the like. As you see in many rural areas, social contact in some places is very bad. Of course, it's more to be taken care of, and I'll say it with a what. A senator on this matter. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson also said that in this country there is one of the greatest freedoms in Europe in trade. Is that the answer? Is that the answer, and is it tried to stop wealthy people from buying up farms on a large scale? No, that's not the answer. This is a step in that direction. These are chicken steps. A clear message is needed on how we want to do this in this country. That's not the answer. This is not a message of how we want it. It's blocking very little, Madam President. Just like that before I finish my case, so farms in this country are many of them not worth a fortune. For an apartment hole in Reykjavík, you may buy an adequate home some time away from Reykjavík. The wealthiest of Europeans, and around the world, is such that a tiny country such as Iceland, with half of which are highlands or wastes, will prove to be easy if they have to raise money to gain good things if they are here, which they truly are. We just got here to see what good things we're sitting here in this country, i.e. Clean water, pure nature, fallen power, hot water. I now state my frustration with the dose of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u100	A respectable president. I'd like to put these words together. I'm sitting right there. A top-of-the-art Board of Education that had this case to treat. I think somehow it's happening here that on the last day of Congress, or at least During the final days of this series, to present a fundamental issue with this bill that deals with the purchase and sale of the earth and its resources. And I find it unusual to talk about such a political deal, or a case that is basically large in all the sense of that word, is a big political one, and makes changes in four layers, appear here at the end of the story, and that discussion about the matter should be in little or nothing consistent with the important thing. We're simply dealing with a resource political bitch. It must be a covenant. This is the objective and aim of protecting the public interest, but, of course, it will have everything to say if it will actually be the result. I've been listening to the discussion here today, and I think I can say the word. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, may actually be more that unites us here than disunits us. But I feel somehow that when you look at the bill, you can ask yourself, " Who's politics here being here? Who's being built here by politicians? Is this a bill that reflects market law? No, it's not like that. Is this a bill that sets a definite limit for the sake of public interest? The answer to that question is no too, that is not the case. The results somehow appear to be some kind of advance, getting people on business contracts to Ministers. I am among those who wonder why the matter needs to be won at this pace. Are there any interests that may not be tolerated or that will not tolerate the conversation in the fall? I cannot see that there will be some dramatic consequences that we allow the matter to develop during the discussion. On the contrary, I think that it will only strengthen this matter and increase the agreement. Yes, there has been, of course, a debate and a plea for some legal adjustment in this case, but I think that the need to discuss the matter here in the Senate can easily lead to the fact that once the bill has become a law, it is only not fully understood. It was at least I am not mature, and therefore, is not likely to achieve political reconciliation that I think would require at least always being the object of a matter of resource politics. It's a matter of possession. This is a matter involving our relationship with the EEA. Let's see if the bill works in a constitution is flaunted in certain comments. I simply don't think that these questions are a clear answer. I agree with what says in the bill's report that there is a strong reason to pay a price for a great deal of possession in the country. We have social and cultural value in our nature, and there is a public interest in ensuring access to land and that this is done by setting some boundaries to match the property compression. The report discusses a wide range of viewpoints, e.g. national safety parameters e.g. water and water safety. Many of these points have simply not been discussed here. Nor do I feel that we have discussed viewpoints such as those presented in reviews. It's a bit of a sign in this case that many rumors came from different sources, and many of them are quite negative. The transport agency is talking about a lack of bill. There they worry about a burdensome effect on a domestic investment in a travel service that you would now have thought would be quite a human view that should be viewed as the situation we have today. The Icelandic Country Association recommended that the bill be approved at this council, although the review was basically positive and in such a way that the bill is a good foundation for discussion. It also flims on how this bill will affect the market value of the country and the need to be taken with great care. What may stab me over and over in the discussion is that the speed is in no way consistent with the interests underlying. I don't think that somehow indicates that the matter is being handled with the weight it deserves. The local community made comments that the authority and the investigation of what is going to be done with certain land and a country is a minister. They thought it was normal for the locals to take it away. And it is also a theme that we see over and over in the reviews, this vast authority that a minister is able to decide whether a business with the earth will be allowed to take place. Of course, there we are building the long - term setting for business and politics to walk hand in hand, which is now often viewed as a formula that is not lucky. The CDC made extensive comments. I found that review to be the least of the ways in which we should have stayed. The people of the country must be members of the people who are assigned to achieve the objectives of the law, to observe what is behind certain purchases, whether they are related to parties, etc. The review of the CDC shows that the European Commission simply does not believe that they have the tools to perform the role they are assigned to do, that they will not be able to do what this bill puts them on. I've mentioned only a few of the many comments, but from different sources. It is the association of tourism, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the Farmers Association, and the CDC. All these people have important comments, but comments that I think could be applied if the case was given a normal pregnancy period, so to speak. Maybe that's what I'm merely staying at. This case is presented guided by the protection of public interest by setting specific limits on how land and land in Iceland and resources that come with the Earth are buying and selling. The whole area around which the bill is going to go through the council raises major questions. I think the matter was being discussed at five meetings at the General Board, and it's scheduled here at the council today and possibly tomorrow. That's all there is to it when the government is about to set up a fundamental issue on property and use real estate. I just can't figure out what it's causing. I was among the members of the Committee members who voted against the fact that the matter would be taken out, simply on the grounds that they had not been matured. We all agreed on that. Still, this is the conclusion, and I think it's, to be honest, bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u101	A respectable president. I recommend a greater portion of the Committee on Proclamation to legalize the official transport infrastructure community in the capital area. As for this matter, there have been quite serious discussions here at a noted Assembly Hall, so a greater portion of the legal committee was responsible and it was right to continue a discussion on the subject and to make certain items in the leading committee party. Otherwise, we refer to the committee's opinion of a greater portion of the legal committee on the subject on the subject. 1648. Here we find some of the main points of the discussion. The transport, transport sector, is an important step in starting a progressive development for transport workers. Its origin is based on the ability to resolve complex organizational discussions with rural areas in the capital area, for this reason the establishment of a public society has been chosen as its source. The covenant builds up the decisions that require building projects, e.g. stockways and construction for public transport. It is important to keep in mind that the overall meeting will have to take place in order to achieve the objective of the agreement. So all the improvements and benefits of state and rural society are a cooperative project and the progress of the contract is based on paying the way of implementation. We wanted to make a decision in the beginning of our committee opinion, and we set up the covenant to show that the Society, or the way it is chosen to embrace this great project, was in a so - called agreement on the structure of transport wood. We're going to a little bit about the company's establishment where we're stating that it's important to set up our union as soon as possible. It plays a key role in managing all projects and in the publication of the whole agreement to round the projects in the area. We'll discuss the importance of being placed in the board's administration and desirable that there is no rapid exchange of government officials. This official building body will become an important organization, and therefore it will be important to have a place in its activities. So we try to frame it in our counsel. There was also quite a discussion of organizational matters on the land of the State of Köld, which says in our leading committee magazine, with the permission of a president: To eliminate uncertainty that can be delayed for individual projects, it is important to establish planning priorities. The rural areas in the capital area must set the priorities for the problem in such a way that the project itself is not to be taken care of. This is where we just wanted to speed up the fact that this channel has to work to achieve the docked projects. The bill assumes that there will be a special agreement with the Council on the dispensing of the Köldnaland. We deal only with the reasons why we deliver this country, while one of the main projects of the official community is to develop the Netherlands and make it of value. We will also discuss other organizational matters. We say yes. that it is important to resolve organizational issues regarding major projects in the capital area discussed in the agreement. Because the discussion had been about individual projects, we wanted to heighten only to the point that it was important to resolve first organizational issues in order to facilitate the linking of the adjacent institutions associated with this, such as the legendary Sunway. We'll say here, by permission of the President: ▪ What link must be made to her organization and to the Sea Road Court in context, since Seaway can be viewed as the first phase of Sunwater. As in our previous opinion, we stress the importance of working now on light control, and we stop it. We'll discuss this light control, but it's shown in this discussion that it's actually the work we want to do best in this order of action. Then we'll discuss the framework of the agreement. The project has a budget of 120 billion. and we stop at what we say in the previous committee article that all financial commitments of the state funds need to be confirmed in transport programs, financial plans, and the budgets of each year. This is not to say that by hand of a bill on the official part of the network to be built up and on the list of projects involved in the implementation of the General Assembly of projects and their implementation, these projects of all have to be identified in the transport programme and then in the financial and financial funding of each year's budget. There was also some debate over the structure of the company. The majority of the budget committees agree to this in the leading opinion, saying: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 84/2001, regarding the order of public projects, is defined as meeting a four-part channel for public projects. Involvement is a matter of initial consideration, planning, self-recycling, and return assessment. This system is aimed at ensuring the quality of the programme in the preparation and practical procedures. The government's roads and management are already following these measures in preparation for projects, e.g. Because of road construction, funded in a transport program. The majority points out that the Society is expected to follow these same steps in its work for transport in the capital area. We stop at the end of the Society's purpose only toward the joint construction of transport workers, as well as the development and sale of a construction site. No other business is expected. When the workers get into business, their business is shifted to the Road Building and, after events, the members of the rural community in accordance with the guidelines of the road, which we actually move to another location in this leading committee and, therefore, agree with the majority view of the transport committee. Finally, we say, a respectable president: Its property and commitment are in line with the nature and design of transport and the property of owners. The estimated work time for the company is 15 years. Hv. For example, the members of Björn's Leví Gunnarsson, Sæland Goad, and Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson sign the committee's opinion in advance, but in other respects they sign more of the legal committees under it in this order, or so on. Councilmen of Willum Þór Þóra Árnadóttir, vice president Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Magnússon, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Steinunn Terradnad, Björn Leví of Gunnarsson, with advance notice, Inga Sæland Land, in advance, and Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson,
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u102	Madam President. I'm recommending a minority party. In various respects, more than one part of the budget is presented with new emphasis and viewpoints that have fallen to some extent to correct the costs of the bill. Important comments are made that will increase the possibility of redirecting the matter to a successful path in behalf of the people of the capital and the rest of the country. In particular, I'd like to be happy to know that in the opinion, the importance of swimming is acknowledged when it is said that there will be a special consideration for paying for the link between adjacent delinquency, such as Sunways, into the capital platforms. But critical, Madam President, is that in the case of such a major community-line operation, a management strategy should not be available. And the cost of construction is very vague, and there is evidence to make a significant development of plans. Plans for a city line involve twofold of the capital area and a expensive bus system. With all the details, it is unclear how much of the city's population in the future will be used in view of the fact that the costly experiment of the past nine years to increase the number of busier patients has not resulted in a significant increase in the proportion of those who take advantage of the ministry. Plans for the city line aim to protect huge resources to make other traffic possible, especially the family car that most residents choose to use. The bill aims to make it available to those who, in increasing numbers, are going to be stuck in traffic especially pay for this with the so-called quick and traffic charges. There is no question about who should pay the urban cost after the planned completion of the work. This cost of operating will be considered a significant risk to the future taxpayers. In view of the above failures on the bill, the smaller parts, the Central Party, make their decision that it would have been better to put the matter in a different direction and take into account comments presented to the Commission, such as that the application of the case conflicts with the government law. The central category and smaller objects do not agree with the greater opinion that the urban line is an important task.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u103	Madam President. I want to start by saying thank you. The leading speaker of the latter committee saw much more in advance of his history. Of course, this, as most are aware, has been a significant discussion here in the hall of this section, first of the transport plan and then of this bill discussed, which says the official community on a city line or public community on a so-called transport contract, but, of course, our doubts in the Central category have shifted over our doubts about the city line and the goals set out, costs and grounds for all. It is a pleasure to read through this subsequent opinion of a greater proportion of legal committees. I'd like to introduce some of the things in which I feel that everything and its progress are of special importance to me and that makes it possible to establish, first of all, a more specific fence in terms of financial relations between the state funds and the community and the later cases of rural society, and particularly matters related to the Diving Ways and the Köldland itself. I would especially like to call attention to a sentence contained in the introduction of the leading committee, by permission of a president, which says: It is essential to keep in mind that the overall meeting will therefore have to work out so that the objective of the agreement will be met. This, of course, is what should be obvious in all of this, but the steps are fear - inspiring. Of course, it has to be that while other rolls continue, their communities cannot maintain specific organizational matters, so to speak, and I think that it will be important for the community and its control group when it comes to having this guidance from the council. In the latter opinion on the organizational matters and land of the State to the Felds, it says, by permission of a president: The bill suggests that there will be a special agreement with the Council on the dispensing of the Netherlands. All key presidents of the organization, including the new system, must be spoken of there. At the same time, there is a decision to work on a sharing plan for the use of the country, under official activities, over a long period of time, such as whether health-related functions should be planned, such as the hospital. I think it's important that such guidance exists so that these factors will be kept in mind with the future multiorganization work and I understand it so that they will have to come to terms before the Feldland is introduced into the organization. So goes on, with President's permission: However, it is important to resolve organizational issues on a major project in the capital area, which may include: is presented in a conglomerate on road projects. In the implementation of the implementation of the implementation programme, particular attention will be given to the payment of a link between adjacent stockways, such as Sunwaterways, into capital settlements. In connection with the Sunway, her organization and the Seaway court need to be processed in a context. It is very important that such guidance is because we have been deeply concerned, and especially in what way the circuit work has been organized by the city of Reykjavík. Then I'd like to specifically point out one sentence, with the permission of the president: To prevent effective light control in the capital area, the urban waste line must not be prevented. This is a point of concern to us in the Middle East that it would be introduced here to modern light control technology that could possibly reduce the time of bus stop at the intersections of 30 to40%, and then it would turn out as an advantage that could be achieved when city carriages start to drum, take priority at road conventions, and put the entire light control system off. Therefore, it is important that these guidance be given. Then I'd like to specifically point out a sentence, with the permission of the President, under Promotion and priority of action, which says: The more involved, however, is that all financial commitments of the state's budget need to be confirmed in transport programs, financial programs, and financial laws of each year. This is important. Then at the end, Madam President: ▪ The more involved is that the purpose of the enterprise is merely toward the joint construction of transport workers, as well as the development and sale of a construction site. No other business is anticipated. In the very least, it's said that this company will not be involved in the operation of the city line, and I think it's important that it is not some afterlife that this company or society will gain, in terms of the urban structure of the so-called or other transport contract. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u104	Madam President. I have considered a few talks on this subject and will only oversee a few points in this talk. First, I'd like to state that the leading committee is a great improvement, according to our opinion. There, some fences and frame the matter a little bit better, so that a little bit more can be done. We also managed to direct the public attention to the case, i.e. City line. In our view, it is taking on very vague and extreme projects. The evidence also suggests that they will be highly expensive and in an effort to outdo such a project. So there was a great need to open their eyes to what was going on here. The bottom line is that the State is in this instance deporting property into a company, the Netherlands, one of the most valuable buildings in the city of Reykjavík. There's a plan to put them in this company, and also possibly, depending on how it goes and with some enforcing, profited from the sale of Iceland Bank. This is serious, Madam President. This is serious, since this has led to a stop in the city of Reykjavík for decades. Stray roads have not been built up. For decades, salt has been lost. Despite the fact that it has been spoken of for over 40 years, neither projects nor programs about where it should be are due because the mayor's office in Reykjavík has repeatedly organized its activities into the Dizziness Way. And this is serious. With this and the stop for the construction of infrastructure roads all around the capital area, the mayor's share has held the Sunway and neighboring communities in a kind of military environment. As a result, when they offer a contract called the national transportation contract, he will follow that the state and neighboring communities are supposed to let a considerable amount of money into the city line and as a backup, as well as most users should pay it. This I have allowed myself, Madam President, to call the ransom because the neighbors and the state have agreed to this in order to get out of the siege they have been in for years and decades. This is the ransom that we are paying, the State, the neighboring communities, and the road users in the capital area. That's something to think about, Madam President. It is thought - provoking and thought - provoking. That's something to worry about in the future with regard to many projects that have greatly improved in recent years. There are tens of billions of people being destroyed, and numbers over 100 billion have been heard. Now that conditions in this country are getting worse because of the virus epidemic, this comes to mind. The middle party is against this. The middle party says no. We'll say no at the city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u105	A respectable president. Much still remains to be said on this matter. I was never able to go through the entire bill, but to help with Congress, we start saying it good here in 2nd. Environment, I presume, especially since certain changes have been made to the leading party at the end of the rest of the section. They don't solve the case, but they give future politicians and voters a little hope that the worst nonsense can be blown off. I just want to say a few details. First of all, in a chapter about the establishment of a government organization, it is assumed that it will create more stability for that management, confident that a proper government will be established at first try. I guess there's gonna be a plan upstairs. So important here is the fact that a budget board, and including the council, should be allowed to monitor possible forward-runs that will obviously become many and repetitious in view of experience with comparable foreign projects and the role models of this city line. For a discussion of the organizational affairs of the Feldnalands, see the article. It is very important that the objective of the territory is determined before they start spending the money they intend to obtain for the land. It is especially important to mention a future place for a hospital because, as a person knows, the Netherlands has been considered a very promising opportunity for a future hospital. The woodland was the same, and most likely it was that way, in which that land was in great haste handed over and used to other parks. However, there is hope for the Netherlands to be useful for the development of health care and new hospitals. Not to be overstated, the importance of waterways being associated with these factors is not too much. In contrast with the city line, what an enormously efficient path, and a much less expensive one, at least Half the cheaper. Decades have been left waiting. It would have a very significant impact on solving the road problems of the capital area as the city line adds to the problem. So now it is important to use this opportunity to press Dizziness Ways. Here, too, the importance of developing rural society is laid down in financing forwards. The main purpose of public construction is given here some weight, but it has been noted that the bill is a very poor law on public construction. This is where the subjects to be discussed, original thinking, plan, practical actions and return evaluations will have to be available for all in time. That is especially true of the city line. I especially note that people cannot avoid following the law on public projects now that they are going to let the State pay most of this. Finally, the cost of the future is at hand. The cost of operating is only mentioned, but as any human may already know, there is no plan for this absurd animal and adverse work to be carried out. All we have in this regard is the experience of similar tasks elsewhere and the conduct of the same person, Reykjavíkurburg, especially. Of course, a man is afraid, and it is a great sin not to be charged with this, that the state will live with this forever, the cost of life, the State, and the road users in the capital area, which will be punished to keep this hopeless example going. In English, there is an expression that in a casual sense is in a way that if you break it, you will pay for it. I'm afraid this is the city of Reykjavík, so that if the government will build it, it will pay for it. I'm sorry, but we'll be able to hear this when the cost of operating, if at all, is in full swing. The city will explain that she can't afford to run it, but the State built it so that it just has to be accepted. I here strongly object that the State is taking on itself in any way to run this device, even though it has been allowed to get itself involved in the project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u106	Madam President. It's not hard to forget what this matter is about the great flood of words here, so I want to quote the matter under question very quickly. This is about setting up or giving a minister permission to establish an official transport stock in the capital area, with the involvement of state funds, Reykjavíkurburg, Gardentown, Hafnarfjörður shop, Kroavogstown, Mosfellstown, and Seltananestown. We have been thrilled to hear it. The Environment and Transport Committee, when national or rural areas agree on priorities, has said that it is a very good example when they face challenges. A committee and say, "It's being done the way we want it to. ' This has been a further step, with virtually all the rural areas in the capital area having made a special agreement with the government on transport. Farming, each with two-thirds of the nation's population, and with its control, virtually every political group in Iceland gathers that this is a vision for the next 15 years. This is certainly a high amount of money, and much depends on it. This is not particularly high if we share it down to every year of the 15th. That might be 8 billion a year. Look at the numbers under here, there's not a great deal of me. What's the purpose of the club? Yes, to carry out what was negotiated as a covenant. The main objective of the Society, the president, and I will allow myself, by your permission, to quote it directly here in the matter, shall be as follows: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... To promote legal, efficient, efficient, and safe transport in the capital area, with the same structure for all transport. b. To help achieve the government's climate targets on sustainable, noncarboneous urban communities. c. To increase traffic security. d. to ensure effective cooperation between state and rural society in the capital area on solid structure of infrastructure. Madam President. That my knowledge cannot be opposed to these goals, but I sincerely hope that this will be the law now. This is going to be a complete transport system in the capital area. It's not true what has been said here that has been a construction stop for the past ten years. The fact is, 2007,2017 descended from 17% of the newest budget of the Roadmaker to the capital area. It is far too small for the large population living here. So now we are finally taking steps in the same structure of transport as the one described here, including public transportation. We are entering a transport system that helps us reach our climate targets and makes traffic more secure. We've got bike paths under here, we've got traffic control, we've got a total of tens of billions of foundations, and this is a city line. It's a great step, and I'm telling everyone what to do. All councilmen to vote for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u107	Madam President. It's in itself very simple. It is determined that the completion of a contract made between the state and the six member members of the capital area should establish a partner to handle the work done under that contract. Sometimes when we're dealing with matters, people start to talk about something quite different, and it's happened in this case that they've been putting up with a lot of opinions about what was wrong with the good deal and whether the goals of an agreement party have set for themselves and the projects that treatants have planned to do are good or bad. Materially, the subject of the bill itself was little or no subject, though to some extent, so that you might now be reasonable. Then a great discussion with the committee began, and it was written on the committee I was on notice. Then a lot of discussion had been made in the Assembly Hall, and the more part is involved, with those who had the strongest views, that it was all impossible to try to do something about it and that it is overruled. I didn't participate, I make it clear, unless it's right to the committee meetings, and it's written after committee opinion, and that I understand, more and less everything in the plot with the leading critics of the case. It is so true that they do not trust themselves to be present at this committee party and return their own higher committee party. Can be summed up, I believe, the opinions of the dissidents of the case, and those of those who have stood before these leading opinions in one sentence at the end of the leading committee's opinion. paritaprevir Þórarinsson the son of Thorin: The second part does not agree with the opinion of the greater part that the city line is an important project. This is the essence of a matter, and all this discussion has been about. But one thing has come out of her, i.e. It is evident to all that, in fact, everyone was aware that the Central Party is against the city line. However, the person standing here supports the city line, and he supports the objective of the capital agreement and believes that this is one of the biggest road developments in the capital area under attack. Despite the fact that this has been more and less successful in preventing a number of disasters, by writing sentences in the committee opinion, I believe that all these exercises are now making the most of a change because the contract for the construction of the capital area is clear. It is clear that the union will be established with the purpose in it, and I believe that the debates of the Middle Class are of little reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u108	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm afraid it wasn't for me before. I still think the matter is totally high, what turns to the city line, but some defenses are set up, I hope, on behalf of the state funds and on organizational matters. But I would like to ask. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson. He spoke about the end of his talk that the leading committee and the conversation that took place between the Middle Class and the administrative body would not give a lot of evidence that all of this would be very clear in the agreement or in the agreement. Looks sharp. A senator so that the transport contract of the capital area, signed on September 26, 2019, is a binding agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The covenant is like his name, not a covenant. We're in a hurry. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree completely on that. However, it is a very clear declaration of the will of all people, and it would be very strange if one part of that declaration is believed that it is not to be true. I assume that this covenant was precisely signed by men to fulfill its contents according to the sound found there. What I reasoned with the committee is that I believe that there are more and less people there, of course, things that actually change materially not much about the continuation of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u110	Madam President. I bring here an opinion of a change proposal for a bill to legalize the health insurance law from the greater part of the health committee. I'm not going to go to the Committee in every detail. I refer to the opinion of guests and reviews which suggests that changes in health insurance laws will be made to the decommissioned Minister's obligation to obtain proposals to the health insurance agency before ordering the directors to better ensure the Agency's authority on the management of services services and provide rich sources to be accessed to medical records in order to provide them with observational roles. In short, a comment was made on some of these points, and it is tore up in the committee opinion in the first place by order of director. The majority decide that it is not unusual for a minister to wish the government's resignation, but the nature of the case is the director of recruitment relations with a minister and therefore may not be normal to have a legal divorce on this matter. In view of the surveillance of the providers, it was toyed at the Commission meeting that it might be wise to have either way, to download electronic data, and/or to start monitoring, and to add the more part, and to make changes. There was a few debates about personal protection and communication, as reflected in the opinion, and after a few speculations and exchanges, the greater part will make changes that make these adjustments: The health and health insurance agency is allowed to process personal information, including sensitive personal information about health, drug use and health care of individuals, in order to carry out their legal duties, including monitoring under these laws and meeting the criteria for the restoration of personal protection and the implementation of personal information. In this process it should also be taken into account that the patient's rights are appropriate, as appropriate. The aim of such data is through the secure health insurance website, which has access control, traceability and encryption. The Agency is permitted to operate databases and provide information as detailed in these laws and to meet the criteria for the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information. I think, Madam President, no need to swaddle further. They speak for themselves. I want to finally thank you. well-being committee for cooperation with the processing of this case, but under the opinion of the greater part, the more part writes signed and Birgir the Year's Ármannsson, Brabbur Níelsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristunnsdótir, and Lilja Hyney Rafney Magnúsdóttir, why. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u111	Madam President. I recommend here for the Committee's opinion of my share of welfare committees with a change in bill-to-producing legislation on health insurance, with subsequent changes in control and surveillance. Under this opinion, the person who stands here is writing, as well as my why. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson and Halldóra Mogensen, and hearing officer of the paradise. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson agrees with this. The memory section feels that it is important to present comments in the processing of the bill of health insurance laws, with subsequent changes, as well as with the work of a greater part of the welfare committee through a processed bill. This bill was recommended at the end of April 2020, followed by a review. A total of six reviews were received, most of which contained serious comments on the subject of the bill. It is now important to note that at this point in the International Assembly work in mid - May 2020, the Council's plan was to return to normal levels after a pandemic crown virus that had a significant impact on the activities of the Parliament and its fasting committees. General committees had been set aside, but cases associated with a response to a pandemic crown were put first, with no other cases being handled by the Council of the Council. Special warrants had to be received from the council's president for meetings in the Synod Committees, including at the head of the council. a well - being committee, and obtained permission when a meeting was due to Congress, which was concerned with the response to the epidemic. A well - being committee received a large part of the district work that was associated with the district convention and was granted permission to meet for them. During this, for almost three months, other cases were aside. The nature of the situation, therefore, failed to win this bill as if it had been best chosen at this time, with no visitors, nor with a conversation within the committee. So it was a measure of frustration when more things went wrong. The welfare committee chose to provide such a vital bill without the completeness of the case, with adequate repair and adequate discussion of the words mature enough. The minority would like to point out that with the bill's contract, it was forbidden to consult Peron Protection by assessment of the impact of the bill on personal protection. It is legal under the laws of personal protection in the case of a process that may involve sensitive personal information. This bill is currently relevant to transport of data containing health information, medical records and actions classified as sensitive personal information. It's undisputed. Then there are changes in health insurance laws on the authority of the health insurance agency to share information and will be in the process of looking again at the Personal Protection Act from 2018, not to the older legal laws on health insurance that are authorized into the legislation for the implementation of the laws on personal protection and the implementation of personal information. There would have to be significant changes in the source and channel of information. The minority points out that the bill is not the only prime minister of the government that has not been consulted with Perlon protection, but it seems rather a rule than an exception that ministers of this government are acting at the head of a prime project to submit them to Perone protection on a law relating to the implementation of sensitive personal information. The minority, therefore, is directed to the government to improve this process, to increase the number of personal protectionists, and to ensure that the production of a prime projector from the government will always perform this legal assessment of the influence on public personal protection before the decision is submitted to the General Council. The Commission's review has provided a perspective on the provision provided in the bill on the data transport of sensitive health information from services to Iceland's Medical Insurance and that it is unacceptable. It is a transfer of sensitive personal data and needs such transport to be fully secure that not all providers can fulfill. It has been reported that the services have data that cannot be submitted electronically, as well as that not all have systems that can handle these transmissions. In view of this, the more part suggests changes to the bill that after approval of the bill, health insurance agencies have permission to call for information from the provider as well as to look at the data they have. The criticism of the service manager remains that the pressures due to review of data to send may lead to a large excess extra work that the services need to produce. No change in this has been made in the context of accounts. The majority also suggest a change in the bill to be followed by Article 3. We'll have a new article that'll be 50th. The law. How Would You Answer? mg, by permission of the President: It is permitted to operate databases and provide information as detailed in these laws and to meet the criteria for the protection and processing of personal information. The minority feels that the current legislation does not meet the law's requirements for personal protection and the processing of personal information on a clear set of laws relating to the sharing of important health information. The majority of the data were not obtained on whether or not this law had been passed under Persian protection and is unacceptable because of the importance of interests. The minority suggests that the proposed regulations will not be agreed, the now proposed change, this specific provision, will not be agreed and will encourage the less part of the health minister to immediately start working on the regulations in the law on the sharing of information from databases to investigate the legality of such communication and to see how such media can be performed. Encouraged by a memory minister of health care to have full consultation with Perone Protection, the institution that knows all about this legal environment. Such consultations lead to more careful legislation and more security for citizens of the country. The Committee gave a perspective on the arrangement of the directors of Iceland's Medical Insurance, where the Minister now appoints him without the establishment of the Agency's administration, i.e. followed by this bill. In the context, it was advisable for the Agency's professional management to provide information on the job of directors. The majority did not agree with that view. In view of the greater part, however, the bill does not rule out that a minister can request a resignation to command the director. The minority points out that none of the laws or bill itself measures above, i.e. ... thata minister can call for a review. It will be unlikely that a minister will go along with the Agency's application of the information for candidates, since he has all authority in his power to select the director of this important organisation. The smaller section considers such an unfortunate and suggests the adjustment of the proposal to the management board of health insurance that a minister should seek the jurisdiction of the Agency before ordering. An order must remain in the hands of a minister, but legal action must be made upon the authority of the Agency. This refers, not to suggestions or to a minister who submits to a government authority, but only to authority. So a smaller section suggests that the bill will be accepted by the change that, instead of the word'serving' to 1st paragraph 1. 7. Let's hear it from the law: review. Other forms were not from the smaller part, and as previously stated, this is the why. Councilmen Kolbrún Árnadóttir Arnaddóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halldóra Mogensen and the one standing here, but an officer of the Reunion, why. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u112	Madam President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to correct the change in competitive law, No. 44/2005, with subsequent changes, from a greater part of the economic and business committee on deck. 1732. The bill suggests significant changes in competitive laws. First, a list of 1st paragraphs is suggested. The law, on how to achieve their objective, adds to promoting a healthy competitive environment for the benefit of consumers. Second, adjustments to 6. The law on the director of Contestant Control, so that the manager's recruitment will not be on time anymore, as it is up to now, but to five years at the same time. It will be recommended that the same person should not be hired more than twice. The change includes recruitment performed after the entry of the law. Third, adjustments are made to Article 15. It's the law to keep out of the ban on competitive restrictions, as per Count 10 and 12. In accordance with local regulations, the Contestance Board can provide such an exception to certain conditions. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested that the law be stated against the prohibitions of Article 10 and chapter 12. does not apply if the conditions listed at 1 mg. Section 15. valid laws are met. In this way, companies or organisations of an enterprise will be determined whether or not measures that would be imposed under regulations 10 or 12. The law of law, meet the conditions specified and thereby authorized. The Contestance Commission will provide guidelines on the details of the terms of this issue. Fourth, it is suggested that c-tell 1st. Section 16. The law will pass away. The provision of the Contestant Commission's authority to take action against situations or practices that prevent, limit, or adversely affect the public's competition for harm. - I'll back this up later. Fifth, the laws of fusion are proposed. There are increases in the quality of the reporting merges and on the criteria and content of shorter fusion announcements as measured by Article 17. a law. Moreover, an increase in the score of fusion is proposed, as the Contestant monitoring may require additional notifications based on Article 3. 17th par. b. These changes will be made over time for the treatment of fusion with Article 17. d and a cut-off for fusion announcements according to Article 17. g. Sixth, a change in 17th paragraph is proposed. a law on authority to end the case at peace and to restore the trial. Seven: changes are made in the 19th, 20, and 35. The laws involved in the information administration of the Contestant Commission to the competitive authorities and the Agency's authority to implement national observations under a request from abroad. The changes have been made due to a new agreement on normatic cooperation in competitive studies. Finally, regulations 40 gr. A spirit of competition to seek the decision of the Contestant Board of Appeals prior to judicial hearings on the decision of the Contestant Board. In this way, the decision of the Contestant Board is made by an individual to come directly to the courts, but free to submit the decision to the appeal board. As indicated in a paper with the bill [...], the independence of competitive authorities from other governments is an important factor in the implementation of competitiveness. - Because of this, it is considered important that the competitiveness of the pursuit can bring the decision of an appeal committee to the courts. Since its release in 2011, the Governing Body has appealed three court cases to invalidate the decision made by an appeal committee of competition. In this regard it is worth considering that the issue of the Contestance Board is not in accordance with the principle that the solution of the higher government authority is binding to a lower level of government and final control level. The cheerleading Committee is a higher authority with the Contestant Council. [...] The Commission reviewed concerns that if people who do not accept the decision of the Contestant Council are authorized to shoot their case directly to the courts, as suggested by Article 13. The bill. The majority of them have an understanding of this point of view, but they believe that other factors, especially the right to obtain a solution to their rights and obligations to an independent and impartial court, such as 70 C.E. The constitution. The majority of them consider it important to take special care in the setting of rights to look to courts for solutions. The requirement not to be allowed to file a case into the courts until problems at the administrative level are emptied must, in the opinion of the greater part, be based on the principle that the decision of the higher administration is finalized at the administrative level. Since the United States Conference Commission was authorized to submit the decision of an appeal committee of competition under court courts, there has been a fundamental change in the judicial order of the land's rights. After that change, it is possible to discuss competitive matters with two administrative points and three judgment points. It's a long trial. While careful and thorough speech management is necessary, it may be even more important to ensure rapid treatment of competition. This includes great interests, both for those directly involved and for the general public and for the rest of their life as a result, a procedure that is very prolonged to the end can lead to a sustained measure of rights. It may be difficult to ensure both careful and quick treatments, especially in view of the often complex and often complex issues of competition and the physical field. The same is true of other problems involving business practices and market activities. In view of this, the larger part will be directed to travel, industrial, and innovation ministers, on behalf of the government, to investigate the benefits and defects of the establishment of a special court that will replace various appeal and decision - making committees in the field of business and consumers. The survey needs to be done on the contrary, with close consultation, including to surveillance agencies, specialists and economists in the area. Among the administrative committees that would be considered to be the release of such a court are the Committee for Appeals, the consumer appeals Committee, the Advisor Committee for Missions, the appeals of the Committee for Ideas, the Electric Energy Commission and the Commission of Communication and Mail. I would like to state, Madam President that this is not a complete count. The establishment of a special court on the above issues would, however, contribute to a careful and quick trial and to ensure that there will be the expertise and knowledge needed in the ever more complex areas of business. Make a success of doing things will increase the security of both parties. The most dramatic change the majority suggests is in Article 4. The bill in which the warrant for non-scrupulous intervention by the Contestance Commission is removed. An article with the bill shows that the Contestance Commission did not apply the relevant authority, although a single marketing study has been conducted. [...] When discussing the matter, the Commission agreed with a plan for a postmortem delinquency for intervention without significant criticism. [...] The majority of it doesn't feel that it's right to dismiss the warrant of the Contestant for non-secting intervention and suggest changes in the bill because of it. For the basis of this position, public interest ends with competition that results from the composition of markets without law violations can have the same serious consequences for public and business - and against rules of law. [...] The majority believe that the interests of smaller enterprises are better guaranteed by keeping the source of the Contestant Board for non-scrime intervention inside the law. However, a greater proportion of the research proposals made to eliminate the application of the source and make it clearer to the law that I'm not going to make further an explanation for this time. I'll just refer to the committee. However, I would like to call to the attention of the United States Congress that I have made the adjustment proposal for this material and that it is made in consultation with others in the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, although the adjustment is in my name. The simple, adjustment proposal ensures that there is a 16th parity. The current competitive song will remain unchanged. This is coming, at least Partly, to the lower part of the Economic and Business Committee. I hope this adjustment proposal will be accepted. 13th. The bill is requested to remove regulations 40th. A spirit of competition to seek the decision of the Contestant Board of Appeals prior to judicial hearings on the decision of the Contestant Board. At 41 st. It's even the law. A court hearing is required when the decision is issued by an appeal committee. The greater part suggests that a new paragraph is involved when the decision of the Contestant is sent directly to the courts. The rest of the section suggests 8 paragraph. A competitive song dealing with the role of the Contestant Commission will be added to the Agency's provision for reporting their annual work reports. It should be noted that, for a short time, the Agency has published such annual reports, but the projects have been completed and the annual reports have probably had to be met, but now it will be legally obliged to report a year's report, providing important insight and are important inputs into discussions about competitiveness in this country and can have a positive effect on public consciousness on the importance of active competition and competition. In addition to an overview of the activities of the Agency over the past year, the majority of the annual report on the activities of the Contestant Organization is to find information on the main issues of competitiveness, national and international conventions, as well as other factors that may have educational value. Madam President. I don't think I need to explain further to the members of the committee that is listed here refers to the changes that come with the Commission opinion. Under this heading, write why. The men of the assembly, who stand here, Óli the Björn of Kárason, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Brutsis the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Willum the Þór of Þórsson,
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u113	Madam President. I would like to recommend a members of Committee 1 of the Economic and Business Committee, with a subscription on the bill. ▪ The U.S.A. shows that strong and active competitive surveillance is essential for competitive employment and consumer protection. In a small and small market, the path between size management and active competition must be followed. Most markets are searching for a few races, and this requires a powerful and efficient competitive surveillance. The changes suggested in the bill indicate that consumer interests have not been paid sufficient attention. The same is true of the status and protection of my party on the market. The first of my items does not agree that the bill is the nature of completing its payment during the current council. On the contrary, more time is needed. Groups have been appointed with less cause. It would allow for all the views to be drawn to the table and for the elaborate comments made on the subject of the bill. Concomitant development of the economy after a pandemic crown virus based on various special requirements for legislators increases the risk of marketing failures. It must be taken into account when changing competitive laws and considering how changes might affect markets and judicial decisions. It is obvious that there are considerable expositions in many areas of employment, which can lead to unwanted compression and unpredictable markets. Under these circumstances, the United States Strategy must be strong and have tools and tools to deal with that challenge. When, for this reason, further research and preparation for adjustments in competitive law are needed. From the time that the bill was presented in a court of agreement with the government and later with a discussion in the Committee, many comments have been made on the individual issues that are very ambiguity and attention to points that need further explanation because of the uncertainty of the rightness and development of the competitive rights and its interpretation. It is inevitable that the modern - day crown virus will be taken into account, as there will be significant changes in the management of enterprises in this country over the next loss. The majority of the cells have proposed a modification proposal to the bill. They do not change the opinion of 1st in terms of the taking of matters. Part one of my memory feels that it will not be possible to think further about the criticism that has been observed. Sets a smaller section, so that the bill will be referred to the government in which it is viewed in the light of comments, as well as the circumstances of the pandemic crown virus. It is important that, at that conclusion, a wide - scale consultation with all the economy will be made to ensure that all views will be at the table before changing competitive laws will be submitted. Mr. President. This is a committee opinion with an off-limit proposal from the 1st smaller part. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Gaand, an officer of the Committee, supports this committee opinion, but under the opinion of the writer here and before. Councilmen Jón Valdimarsson Valmardsson and Smári Mccarthy. Mr. President. Now that I have considered the committee, I want to take advantage of this opportunity and to say some words of my own concern about this matter. During the final days of the council, the government is going to run through a bill that will weaken the Contestance Commission. It would be closer to strengthening the Contestant Control in the economic situation of Covid-19. In addition, in comparison with the international market and the huge interests of consumers, there is a healthy competitive environment here. Thus, effective monitoring of competition is even more important here than in larger lands. With poor supervision, companies can make good use of circumstances to create a monotonous position that works against the interests of the public. For a long time, the Independence Party has wanted to weaken the Contestant Board, and it seems that they have managed to get a VG and an advance on their side. If the bill to the law, it will facilitate the fusion of large enterprises where the limits of reported fusion should be substantially increased so large fusions will not be reported. In addition, companies are aimed at evaluating whether the conditions for cooperation are met, in order to deal with the changes. The bill's report shows that it is also written. in order to take into account that major changes have occurred in the Icelandic economy since the last turning of the competition in 2011. It says, by permission of the president: A major increase has been observed in recent years in specific areas of employment in which high competition has led to considerable involvement in enterprises with one another and a number of fusions. All of us can be sure that significant changes have occurred in the Icelandic economy by Covid-19. Hence, the criteria for the bill have simply failed and should be dismissed. The SEC is aimed at preventing the development of business barriers. The risk of blocking is even higher in conditions that have now occurred after Covid-19. It is therefore wrong, and it works against the public interest to use this difficult environment to create the ideal environment for the dominant company of the uninterrupted. At this point, it is important not to increase the risk of loss by creating a mononuity company at the market. It's against the interests of the public. The competition and others have noted that the government's response to Covid-19 can have a major impact on Iceland's competitiveness and standard of living for a long time. In view of this, it is important that the government ensures that response will not be in the way of reducing competition, weakening competitiveness, or competitiveness. In 2011, we were standing in the United States and the left movement, which was then a government government government, to strengthen a competitive song to create an active competition. There was a fundamental purpose for protecting public interests. The main point was that with the company's competition at the market, customers gain greater benefit from the public, and their job life becomes richer. Thus income and taxes are created, which, in turn, facilitates better welfare systems. On the other hand, active competition is not self - sufficiency, and large companies in the small Icelandic market have great interests by subtracting it, and especially by reducing the monitoring of competitiveness. In 2011, we met a great deal of opposition from the Independence Party, the Association of Business Life, and Business Business Council. This special interest struggle did not result, as we and the VG joined together in promoting necessary business control and management. These same parties now want to use their positions to weaken the Contestance Board and this time with VG support. There will be no more than the possibility of taking action against the behaviour of an enterprise that is damaging to the competition, to the public's harm, to the point of becoming extremely weak the bill remains. It also suggests a significant reduction in the monitoring of companies to determine whether or not their agreements will be competitive and more fusion will be avoided, but it is now in accordance with competitive law. It is of great concern that instead of strengthening the competitive law in harmony with what has been going on in Europe during the past few years, the bill bears the spirit. You see, it is totally wrong that the bill as it appears, even by changes in the Economic and Business Committee, is in line with the development of competitive policies in Europe over the past few years. There, ideologies have been based on strengthening the law, not on weakening it, as here. Thus, it is necessary for all, both inside and outside, and particularly for the labor movement and the consumers, who want to protect public interests, to reunite and defend this attack of interest and that the General Assembly does so by directing the bill to the government, as agreed by a reduced share of the Economic and Business Committee. Gylfi Magnússon, who lives in economics at the University of Iceland and former economic and commercial ministers, says, in his detailed review, with the permission of a president: The U.S. competitiveness laws around the turn of 1900 were not only worrying about market efficiency but also that democracy may be threatened by extremely large companies and capitalists. Gylfi also noted that the United States has taken many strange steps in the conquering countries following World War II. They felt that it was necessary to ensure peace in these countries to secure democracy, and only the tenets of the great corporations could be dealt with. We also need to be on the rise of large companies in this country, taking care of the democracy at the same time. Rules and monitoring that are tailored to the narrowing nature of the EU are a global problem, and the European Union has a measure of the protocols we have taken up through the EEA. In its review, Gylfi Magnússon points out that each EEA country has its own competitive legislation but must be in accordance with EU directives. Thus, the Icelandic government cannot give in to the pressures of selfish gain. The consumer protection was shown to be the changes the bill noticed in the consultation problem and was canceled from the source of the Contestant Commission to bear the results of the Subcommittee Contestation Committee of the European Convention. According to Gylfi Magnússon, the end of the bill is a test of the Icelandic political system, and he asks: Will the Icelandic government give in to the loud demands of corporations and their organization of weakening Icelandic competitive surveillance, or will the general public enjoy the protection he has enjoyed so far? The bill is not relevant to the current situation, in the middle of a viral epidemic, and in the greatest recession of the Republic of history. There is a significant risk of a financial compression. In poor shape, companies will cut off business and take over their market share. The bill makes bad impressions, even though the government has been able to produce changes. Mr. President. Let us turn the bill away at a vote on the matter later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u114	Mr. President. In the new assessment of the 63 nations' competitiveness of the IMD Business University, Iceland is reduced to one place on the list and is now 21th. We are still drawn back from the North and are behind them on most subsets. Of course, there is a lot of concern in times where we have to contribute to a powerful career that is competitive and varied in international markets. The assessment of the university's business offers opportunities for improvement. Results have shown e.g. that the administrative burden of new enterprises is by far the highest in OECD and the possibility of foreign investors to invest here in Iceland is less than anywhere in the world. Iceland does not attract qualified international workers, and export is rather remote, so to speak. Clearly, then, we need to take decisive action toward more competitiveness, as professional spokesmen talk about, but it really does matter how. In the years to come, we have much to do to make sure that newer companies are allowed to grow and thrive and prepare for a more broad variety of careers for the future. You would have thought that the government would be interested in this and would provide significant improvements in the competitiveness of the country. The government's answer to this situation is to weaken competitive laws, reduce the teeth of an independent regional competitive surveillance. These laws are particularly designed to stimulate competition in this country or to improve the standard of living for the common people. These laws simply serve the interests of the largest and most powerful corporations in the country. Rather than prepare it small, the new, the particular in Icelandic employment, it goes in the opposite direction. History shows that this way, cutting your teeth out, is bad and neither for the benefit of consumers nor for the number of companies who do business in Iceland. On the contrary, as in most parts of Europe and Europe, a strong competitive outlook should be assured. It is especially important here in Iceland because of the small markets and the few that follow them. High prices for local products and services demonstrate that there is no need to relax the competitive legislation. In the United States, we have proposed measures for SMEs in the small and medium-sized business that have far too few proverbial measures in this room. We focus on reducing the budget and improving the environment of these small enterprises, which provide a variety of services, create jobs, and lead to basic activities. They have the flexibility to adapt faster to their changing circumstances. But in Iceland most decisions are thought out of the interests of larger companies, even the largest. This needs to be changed. In fact, the minister of this bill introduces the burden of order to be reduced. The fact is, however, that market competition is being reduced. It's very serious in the economic situation we are living in because of the Covid world epidemic, where we are even looking at a mass failure. I'm sorry, palpation in jobs is all too well - known as a result of a crisis. A smaller business with less control, often gets into trouble sooner. Larger rivals, who have better access to capitals and banks even bet on, see a game on the table, and take over the smaller ones. Thus, fusion in this situation is a major problem in the raising of the thresholds. It's not a responsible economy. Most jobs in the country can be found in SMEs. They are simply the back of the spine of the valuable thing. If they give proportionately, there will be serious consequences for the level of employment in the country. The best paid jobs in the country could disappear to the south, the rest to remain, and the little ones to increase. We're stuck with a more direct, uniform, less humble job life. That is why it is very serious that the government of the left green, independent, and forwarding party focus on reducing the monitoring of markets at this point so little as to arrive at summer. Even if the bill has changed after a consultation, and even if the details of the smaller section have been met, we in the United States can't accept the bill. We want to be public interests in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u115	Mr. President. I didn't mean much to be here on this matter, but I felt it was my right and duty to do it this time. Today, there are differences of opinion as to whether the Contestant is weakening. So I refuse. I think it's a matter of time before the Contestance Commission is able to concentrate on the most important issues it needs to take care of, e.g. by increasing the threshold. I want to ask you why. A senator would agree with the Contestant Commission, which says in more detailed review, one of the most comprehensive sources of information we have received for the Economic and Business Committee: The U.S. Governing Body feels that the limits of competitive legislation are regularly reviewed. Thus, following a follow-up will not make any comment on the change made in Article 5. The bill.How's it going? That's what I'm talking about. A senator who is very concerned with the interests of the Contestant, as I hope more people will disagree with this opinion of the Contestant Board, which makes it wise to raise the limits of the decision as far as possible. A senator is opposed to a person's being made?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u116	Mr. President. I didn't come up here because I have something special for the Contestant. However, I am concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is a major matter of competitiveness. It's unambiguous to raise the limits of the reporting fusion, and that's about 50%, I understand. This is done in ways that are far beyond what will be done elsewhere in the northern world. We'll be stuck with the fact that big fusions are not going to be reported. It's going to be a little business-related for itself. As noted in the bill reviews, a pandemic actually changes completely competitively; I don't talk about even business paying people off to keep them working. We can, like, back and forth as to whether it can affect corporate competition when all this is over and it starts again. I guess that's what it's about to be. A senator objecting to me whether he is really not concerned that in the covert of these changes, big companies who have a lot of access to the money the banks have bet on can't start picking up the finest berries from the trees and it can so much as easily result in resolve, that the best paid jobs, market work and so forth will be left behind but the rest of their jobs, and we'll end up with a poor job life?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u117	Mr. President. I don't get the answer. A senator protests the assessment of the Contestant Commission, as shown in its review of the bill to the Economic and Business Committee. They feel that it is reasonable to suggest the increase. If you followed the 2008 index of consumer prices, the 2008 date line is then 2008, the limit of the score should go up to 3.2◯3.3 billion. It's a 56% rise. But let it lie in between things. It would be fine if it were. A senator could answer that question because I am not opposed to him. He's against me. Mr. President. It's the wrong thing here to stress that the Contestance Commission is being weakened, that they are developing a course or some chance for bigger companies to take over the smaller ones. No part of the bill is taking such steps. It is, rather, a simple rule book, making it more practical for small companies. That doesn't mean shaking your head, dog. Senator. It's just that kind of thing. Of course, we should bear in mind that it is the right thing to say that complex regulations involve competitiveness, especially for small companies but not for big ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u118	Mr. President. I think it's kind of special, if that's what it is. A senator looks at answers in a way that requires communication and questions on both sides. Of course he has a choice to answer me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u119	But you can answer me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u120	I can answer you in that way, huh? A senator, that I'm sure he's right about the United States Contestant that there's a need to raise and update the balance that had remained unchanged since 2008. But there can be now. There was no need to treat them as they are doing here and put them relatively far beyond what they are in the other North countries. You're right about what you're doing. A senator's complex regulations and unnecessary misunderstandings may be adversely affected by small companies. I think a body of Congress might begin to develop the European Union's work ethic when it prepares a business law: Think small. In other words, let's see how legislation works or bites small companies, and if the result is positive, the law will simply continue. This has been the other way around. During the three years I've been at the council, more than one part of my life has gone into dealing with and pampering the problems of giant companies, sometimes temporary or unexpected. I think it's time for this council to become a louder advocate of small companies. And, of course, that's not true. A senator that is not being slacked up when companies will only be keeping an eye on how this is going to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u121	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u122	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u123	Mr. President. I'm going to take a few words on competitive rules and competitive rights. This is clearly clear, and everyone knows that competitive rules are not controversial, although most societies feel that they need such rules, at least In some ways. I'm one of those who think we should have very powerful laws in this area and a very powerful surveillance agency. We're supposed to go that way. We're here to promote the monitoring facility. We are to promote the law rather than contribute to their weakness, as has been suggested here, and at least to those who speak well. Be worried about it. Some feel that competitive policies play a major role in the free market and that they really limit freedom of the agreement. At the same time, other competitive rules are considered to be natural protocols. Contestation rules are, in my opinion, the standard market rules that make the administration of the government unnecessary in most cases. That's why I don't understand that we sometimes argue about the values of competition. I may not say in this room, here at the council, but it happens in the community. These market guidelines minimise the potential interference of the government in the market. To me, strong competitive policy prevents the government from determining the price, quantity, quality, and production. The State, however, has a role. This surely recognizes the science of the so - called market failures. Economics call for the State to play a role, including with competitive legislation, when the so - called invisible hand of the market fails, when competition somehow fails. Adam Smith, who is often viewed as the father of modern economics, did not view competition as a constant state but, rather, as a competition between two parties in selling offers or buying things that are limited. He stated in his book Easy Nations, published in 1776, that capital owners could not come together, even if the occasion was merely for pleasure or entertainment, without the introduction of any kind of conspiracy against the public good or secret agreement for rising prices. Many, though old, have used these words of Adam Smithur to justify competitive rules and rules and even to justify competition. referred to these comments in a comment to a bill for competition when given in 1993. This is so historic. Economics teach that there is a lack of manufacturing method, i.e. that your needs are, in effect, infinite. It is just this deficiency that, in turn, shapes all the economic laws and behavior of individuals on the market. In fact, competitive laws based on economics, not just on politics, punitive bitch, or legalistics, but on economics because the market economy assumes that supply and demand are balanced in free business. This is very important. We, as mixed with economic systems, came to realize this. Most economists, however, acknowledge the existence of a so - called market failure. Therefore, the right - to - right economist economists are ready to acknowledge that the market is not perfect. This results in so - called market failures, and therefore the intervention of the official may be justified. Marketing heart failures, e.g. Be external, such as pollution or isolation and insignia. Pay attention. In monopoly, the market does not work as it should, resulting in the formation of a monotonous price that involves unfavourableness. The amount of production will be less than that. Then, if misuse occurs, the market will create a market and will prevent normal benefit from consumers. I think this is important when we talk about competitive laws, especially when discussing whether we want to promote the law or the agency that supervises them. In my opinion, we need to understand the purpose of the law. The purpose of competitive legislation is to promote the economy here and ensure the natural benefits of consumers. The third goal, of course, is that competition will thrive, that the great one will not be able to control the lesser one. This is what we have many examples of, as I will only come to follow. In the United States against Tobacco Associates in 1972, the U.S. Supreme Court said that competitive laws are like the Constitution of industry. I find it quite well put this approach to the U.S. Supreme Court on competitive law. I think we should keep this in mind. That's why I sometimes wonder at the attitude I perceive in Iceland's company where I want to draw my teeth from the Contestance Commission or even the legislation. The competition laws have to serve not only the interests of consumers but also the interests of smaller companies. I wondered from this chair, and, as I've done before, that smaller companies in Iceland, who are the spine of a Icelandic career, really need to be perplexing. Business and business agencies, these powerful stakeholders, I find, on the whole too much to attract the attention of big corporations, the unsupervised corporations. The interests of the major enterprises, the giants in the Icelandic economy, do not necessarily agree with the interests of SMEs, just not at all. We can even see it. On the ideas of the industry in a report from them at the time, by permission of the president: In the long run, however, a free market system may carry the best guarantee of active competition. The main role of legislation and public activity in this field is to counter-discrimination, e.g. Because of official intervention and support and misuse of facilities such as the marketing facility. It should not be the role of the public agency to regulate the construction of jobs and therefore to prevent economic management and increased production. It's an interesting approach, and I can say things over there. But I think they forget to focus on small companies that are often dealing with the giants in the market. A competition is good. Contestation is a good thing. My favorite song column in the whole library is competitive law. Whenever people think they're going to get used to them, and what if, in some estimates, men weaken them in some way or take steps to undermine them, we should rise up on our backs. In a little low-level economy like Iceland, I think we need to make sure that the competitiveness of the Contestants and the Contestance Commission are equipped to protect the important interests involved. To me, and, of course, most people, there are various advantages of active competition. The price to consumers is not just dropping. Instead, we get more companies to compete for our favour as consumers, for another advantage of a powerful competition is that of a company competing for our customers. It generates incentives for innovation, reform, increase in production and steady supply, as well as for the high cost of production. The profit of competition is to lead to a lower price, better product, greater quality, and greater efficiency, leading to greater prosperity. But loneliness and competition, which are market failures, are just like the pollution I could in the past, create an environment in which there is no built - in motivation for competition to keep costs low. When it comes to competition, it is the best control of inappropriate prices. Just when we look at the goals of most competitive people in the world, it is just to make sure that economic prosperity will be achieved so that consumers can enjoy lower prices, greater quality and quality. According to Article 1. That is exactly what the Icelandic competitive song is: The aim of the law is to promote active business competition and, therefore, work on the practical use of society's manufacturing factors. The objective of this should be achieved by: Work on incompetent barriers and the limitations of professional freedoms, I will work against unjust business practices, harmful competition and competitive hatreds, Easy access to new market rivals I think this thought of competition in this country is honorable, and it comes from European legislation. Some speak in a way that the market should monitor itself. I think it's a failure of ideologies, and experience shows that it's a failure of ideologies. Large companies can't keep an eye on themselves. Once I play this claim, I have been asked for an example. There are a number of cases where Icelandic corporations violate competitive laws that take their smaller rivals on the other hand and on consumers, the public. I have put together a list, but in the following markets, the Icelandic major companies have broken down the consumers and smaller companies they've been competing with: number one, number one, in the financial and banking market; number two, at the grocery market; number three, in the telecommunications market; number four, in the fuel market; number five, in the building market; number six, in the market; number seven, in the postmarket; number eight, agriculture; number nine, in the airport market and number ten, in information technologies. As Mr. President senses, sees and listens, these giants are on the market where we, as consumers, have tremendous interests because competition is active. This isn't uncommon. This is not a perimeter situation where Icelandic corporations break competitive laws in one way or another. It seems more like a rule than a rule. This is what I'm worried about, because we're here to protect consumer interests, protect the interests of voters, this is the same group. That's why I say this list, which could be a lot longer, is indicating that we can't trust Icelandic corporations to monitor themselves, just on the contrary. We know that here are politicians who have spoken rather about the fact that we should reduce surveillance everywhere we look. I'm not preaching some surveillance community. I believe, however, that an efficient and economic surveillance guided by the public will work. I took, for example, ten huge competitions. I can mention offenses against consumer interests from Icelandic corporations on all these markets. It tells me that we need to promote the Contestance Control, promote competitive legislation. I'd like to recall when the United States was in the government over a decade ago. The first thing the United States government did was raise funds for the Contestance. In two years, there was a 50% increase in funding for the Contestance Commission. I want to see this again because I feel like there's a clue to this government that we're going the other way. This government has reduced the UN to its own unity. It's now in the Secret Bank. We took that fight before Christmas. This government presented changes in the competitiveness Act, the first draft of the bill we address here, in which the United Nations was to weaken its authority to address the results of the decision of the decision-making committee under courts. So that's how the first version of the bill looked. Hv. Senators remember that. Of course, they were extremely critical and were better off. We know that the government groups in this hall have also directly suggested that the government's proposal to promote other key surveillance agencies. You have issued our recommendations for increased funding to the head of the IRS. You have issued a proposal to promote the local district attorney's surveillance. Whether it's the issue of UNEP, the Contestant, the tax investigator, local district attorney, Fish Office, or any other member of the community, they face a government that has a weak idea rather than to strengthen. That's a concern, Mr. President. This is the Independence Party ideologies. That is why we also see that there is not one senator left - greener in the hall in this discussion, and there is not one member of the parish in this discussion. But the Independence Party has its own ideologies, which contrasts with me when it comes to intensive official supervision. What I'm trying to draw out in this brief speech is that we need to be careful. We are not arguing here about Caesar's beard, as we often do in this hall. It's one of the things that matter. This is one of the issues the Conspiracy has with it. paritaprevir Oddný's new Harðardóttir, in the lead, took the lead in trying to make a positive change in the conduct of the council. Hv. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir got to make a bad thing a little better. [[Foreground on:]] Better make bad stuff a little better. This happened during the council, as it were. Congress officials have dealt with and discussed earlier today. Finally, Mr. President, we may need to take a deeper and more interesting discussion about competitive legislation and the Contestation, especially in Covid's time, since we may see further market compression. As a result of this deepest crisis of 100 years, there is even more reason for us to be careful that here is a powerful U.S. cheering program that has the funding and support of the government to intervene and respond if we are here to become an unwanted uninterrupted situation. There's plenty of competition in Iceland. A fair is defined as two to three commercial companies. We can see that in all the key markets available to the Icelandic consumers, whether it's the grocery market, the financial market, the communication market, the fuel market, etc., there's no competition. That's why it's so important that we try to reduce the level of unsupervisedness at the best possible time. I'm not going to take too big into myself, from competition. I can testify that when Bronson united in 1992, in fact, before the competition laws went into effect and as a result, there was further compression in the grocery market, the price of consumers increased more than the prices generally raised between suppliers and collectives. This was a review of the local Contestant Institute in a special report that interested ones can study. I hope we what we're doing. Councilmen, from where we come in politics, can join in defending the Contestant Board and defending the principle of competition because their objective is such a noble one. The aim is to ensure the natural and rightful benefit of consumers, strong competition, that small companies that thrive here do not have to fear the big ones in the market. This and the efficiency of manufacturing factors are the thought behind the competitive law. These are key laws that we need to protect, but do not weigh in one way or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u124	Mr. President. I was quite pleased with the first part of my talk. A senator and I loved listening to him. I might not agree with everything, but I usually enjoy listening to people with all kinds of opinions rather than to those that agree with me. As the latter part of the talk ran out on me, I began to wear two masks. Now we are on the right side of life, of liberals, or of conservatives, not of being out of control. We are generally advocates of specific guidelines, as simple as they can be, and that the guidelines apply for all, all are equal to law and order. This is the approach. There is evidence to indicate what Milton Friedman said when he held a dinner party at the Council of Versailles, as it were, I consider from 1980, 1983, or 1984. He was asked what the greatest threat of capitalism was, and he stood up and looked over a hall full of Icelandic businessmen and asked everyone to look in the mirror. Of course, it is true that capitalism is sometimes its worst enemy. But I missed one at a time. Senator. He's obviously worried there's some bad corporations here that can abuse their situation, etc. Yes, it is. Consider some examples. However, it is the state and rural society that are the largest players on the market and prevent healthy competition, prevent companies, private companies, from being able to e.g. As has been done, the invitation to serve in Reykjavík is an invitation. I'll mention it, for example. collection of organic wastes that a private company would like to do, but Reykjavíkurburg rejected and prevented. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: Is it not true that we begin to consider whether we need to enter the competitive course some principles that deal with the unfair competitiveness of the state, but not always focus on big business? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u125	Mr. President. The competition laws also extend to the states and institutions of rural society. We're in a hurry. All you have to do is look at a set of values. That's exactly what they're talking about. The answer is simple: Yes, there is nothing for a pig in one way or another. That is why it is so important that the Contestance Board is strong and it can handle the complaint or tip, whether it comes from consumers or private companies, with regard to Icelandic regional companies or government agencies. So, yes, we can agree to promote the Agency and stop suggesting that the government's stand to place more money in the Contestance Board. Can we do it? A senator agreed on that? Hv. A senator says he approves of general rules and equality. I know he is. The competition laws are just to ensure general rules and equations. This is a legislation that prevents us from having a random intervention by public bodies. It's a standard protocol that all of us should follow. But that's what worries me. A senator, if he accuses himself, must have a view of my list when it comes to the extensive and tragic history of Icelandic corporations, of their violations of interests not only consumers but also other companies. A senator is concerned. I know why. A senator supports free competition, but there are especially small companies - and we focus a little on consumers in this debate - which is being violated on the part of the great. I mentioned ten key markets and forgot to mention the pharmaceutical market, which is also an example of violations of the interests of small companies and their consumers. It must be a bit of a wake-up call. While the situation is unusually bad in Iceland, we must want to go in the other direction to promote the Agency and the grip of the Contestance Commission to interfere with a market that is developing in an undesirable direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm gonna keep going a little bit. You see, I have not seen members of the United States work with me and other members of Congress who have pointed to the repeated violations of government, government and rural society, especially Reykjavíkurburg, when it comes to the interests of private companies. I pointed to e.g. in Reykjavík, Germany, prevents the use of biohazardous wastes by private companies. The city said no. In other ways, the city of Reykjavík has prevented a private company from obtaining a field in other areas. I'm not going to talk about it when I pointed out here that the State Radio will deliberately break a law about the creation of a subsidiary to compete. Nobody here at the council Hall agreeed. Only a year and a half later, the obvious fact that people began to hesitate was identified by the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. But when it comes to government companies, especially public societies, it's as if for now. The members of the United Nations are required to have some kind of peace. There is no way to discuss how government and government treat private companies. They always talk about corporations. But when it comes to government and rural society, it's all right how they behave, how they act, especially with small companies. I'm gonna point my head. A senator of the way the planning of the city of Reykjavík has prevented natural competition, e.g. at the grocery market and the fuel market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u127	Mr. President. As I could about them, it is stated in 2 gr. Rivalry that these laws include public employment parties in the same way as private partners. Of course, government agencies can make mistakes, even in violation of individual and corporate rights, but the big problem is not there. Senator. Speaking of the family of peace, I think it's a why. A senator would normally put the interests of private companies, the corporations. But the big problem here is that there are examples of violations of the financial and banking market, of the grocery market, of the marketing market, of the telecommunications market, of the fuel market, of the stock market, of the postmarket, of agriculture, of the flying, and of information technology. It's the Icelandic shard story. That's what I'm trying to draw out here. You can't scram at a little amulet. I'm not justifying any kind of offense. Let us see. If you have a what? A senator suspects that corporate interests are being violated, I encourage the members to consult the Contestant Board, which I would like to strengthen. The problem, however, is how Icelandic corporations have behaved on these simple markets. There should be no family of peace, then. Senator. Icelandic football companies need to feel that they cannot behave as they choose on the market. They must not abuse the marketing position, undergo abnormal business restrictions, etc. A violation of competitive law is not a violation of victims. Rather, the entire population suffers from it. When an enterprise violates competitive law, whether it is an illegal consultation or a misuse of the market market, it will increase the cost of Icelandic home and Iceland, Mr. President, but it is expensive enough to add a higher price as a result of competitive violations in Icelandic private companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u128	Mr. President. Such competitiveness is the kind of law that is of utmost importance to be a good, careful person and to serve one's purpose. The purpose, of course, is to create guidelines on the market where companies are working. The competition laws play a role in controlling unregulated market activities when it violates the rights or rights of other companies, consumers, and all the public. Even so, when it comes to the market, there are great interests, and no matter how the competition is run, it does not matter. The Continental Department has provided suggestions for the change in competitive law and has become a few hours since it was taken up, and it has put into practice. Since then, for reasons that no one has provided, major losses have occurred in the economy. When you look at it all together, and a number of rumors that have been received. The financial and business committee that deals with the matter clearly indicates that there is a conflict between interests. I don't think that it's really possible to avoid mentioning it, when you look at these reviews, that they have any evidence that many companies, many corporate stakeholders, have been very positive about the bill. I have always said, and especially in recent years, that our community is an enormously important organization. They are often responsible for giving knowledge and experience to people, and they should listen and pay attention to what is said there. But this does not mean that, first of all, an organization is always right and second, that they have an overall interest in being guided, in public interest, when they comment on individual issues. It is vital that we always keep this in mind when we are listening to any kind of interest organization. Our competition laws are not flawless, they can be corrected, and they can be added. It is even called for, as is true of all legislation, that the legislation is reasonable, in some way it is able to predict and cannot be predicted. It is also important that it be efficient and fulfilled its role. Of this I think most of us can all be united. With regard to the bill available here, first of all, it is very clear to me that there are several factors that have been identified, both those in it and then other factors that could have been recorded on the bill of this kind or revised. It is in my opinion nothing that calls for significant changes in competitive laws now. There is no time press, and it can be said that it is less than that because of the situation in society today, and it is anticipated that there will be many changes in the composition of the economy and that many companies will become lazy, unfortunately, and that there will be such reorganizations in which companies will be no longer be reduced and even the remaining ones will be grown. So these are situations in which I believe it is incompetent to make major changes in the competitive environment. At the very least, more thought is needed. That's why I have a 1st memory of the off-limit proposal. The evidence is this, that there is a need to hurry, and we need to think more deeply. In this context, just to point out that one important point on the bill was to disassociate the sources of the Contestance Commission for non-scrime intervention, as it is called, on markets where compression or competition will be abnormal without directly saying that some company has committed a crime. It simply results in the situation and the lack of marketing that there must be a intervention. It was emphasized that this would go through, and the reviews of many stakes were considered one of the most important elements of the bill. It was pointed to the fact that this was being followed the same path that was being done in Europe. It may be that by the length of time, or by the idea that humans did not have the time or the opportunity to observe the trend in Europe that exactly means that it is very important that competitive surveillance has such sources, so that such a reference to evolution in other countries proved to be, at least By this time, I was wrong. My firm view is that there are many opportunities to do better, both in a direct manner, that is, the ones involved in the law. The companies in the country who view this as their rules, can be fixed in many ways and streamlined and make it easier for them to do so. But we must not forget that on the other side there are smaller companies, then, of course, all the people who abuse the dominant position or abuse some kind of power that an enterprise has taken on the market primarily. It was, for example. one of the strong points that were pointed out in the reviews of Contestants itself and consumer organizations, etc., that they are desperately lacking grounds for competitiveness in the way they are able to bring in compensations that are embarrassed because the law is broken. So my conclusion is that the matter is not critical now, and it is much more reasonable to think again and try to look into all these matters much better. One more thing I remembered when I was about to break the bottom of this is with the appeal committee and a court date. First, the Contestant Commission was to be banned from the hearings of the appeal committee's decision to the courts, but this is now a mixed route. The article then shows that the greater part of the committee considers whether to install a special court that deals with competitiveness and, in fact, other issues. I don't think there's a bad idea, and it's probably looking at it, but once again it shows that the solution the bill says doesn't solve the problem it's meant to be, and people are already thinking about something else. Therefore, I say, and that is my main conclusion: Let's stop here in the council treatment and refer it to the government for further development and then get, I don't know how long it takes, after some months, maybe in the fall or in the spring, we'll work a bill that has been considered with the people who know and those who are looking for development in other countries. Then I am absolutely convinced that we can go further in the direction of improving all of this. Finally, however, competitiveness as a commercial interest group, professional drivers, is completely at peace with competitive laws that do not have enough bites.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u129	A respectable president. This is an important law on which we will discuss it. We must not forget that competition is the most powerful consumer protection, so it is not a small matter in the face of big and big changes and not a small matter what the government's mind is when it comes to competitive matters. And why do I say that? The matter was presented in the consultation puzzle - in fact, we only need to consider whether it is actually gnarly, for when comments arise, they are often not taken into account. However, out of this issue presented by the government, showing a certain mind and goal of the government groups, especially the competition, the comments were heavy and heavy, and the loudness of the country being drawn in this regard. The goal was to weaken the Icelandic competitive legislation and was to include the following: planned to cancel the warrant of the Contestant Commission to make a decision on the decision of the decision-making committee to the courts. Of course, it would have weakened the very possibility of the Contestants to defend themselves and promote a certain competition. If there had been a legal environment, the way the National Court confirmed this year - but then the National Court confirmed that the Radial had been guilty of competitive violations and had to be paid nearly half a billion for competitive violations - not qualified and not tested if this document of the Contestance had been taken off to proceed with the matter. That's why I say, when the most powerful consumer protection is competition, and when we analyze our minds to weaken competition, all the alarm lights will be flashing. So I'm not hiding that in negotiations at the end of the council, we made a big effort to slow down the process of changing the process of competitive legislation, because it is so important, rather than pushing against a language that is not complete. Is this what I'm saying you can't turn anything into the competition? Not at all. And it's not that the Contestant Control is over the criticism of the ocean, by the way. It is totally normal to examine e.g. A simple rule of order, and a truly simpler rule, to promote competition and consumer protection. It is only natural to assume that time should be set aside for the chairman of the Contestant Board. It can also be said of the things that include. It is established by Gylfi Magnússon, former chairman of the Contestant Board, that there is a need for sharper demands for those being made to rule the Contestant Board. In fact, that comment did not fail. There are, therefore, some things to be sharp about the Contestant Board. During our restoration, we have also given tremendous emphasis on increasing the direction of the Contestant Board because it saves time and money. That's important. The surveillance has been criticized for failing to do what is right because of the warrant. And why would that be? When the budget for the Contestability Commission is examined, it is clear that there has been reduced donations for the monitoring. That is a story, especially in the time of this government and the 20133/42016 government. And it tells a certain story, a respectable president, when the attitude is like this, because the funds that could be earmarked to the Contestance Board, in order to promote the lead, would be both in the interests of small and large companies. We have experienced a fixed merger in a small market, we have experienced one and another as normal, important, and urgent. But it would also have been helpful if the process had been preceded. It would have saved a lot of time and money for a company that started the fusion process. So it is not that the principle of competition should not be reexamined. That's what we're supposed to do, and that's what we're supposed to do. But there is nothing today that calls for this matter to be forced through the council. That's a lot more after the pandemic, after Covid, because we're seeing a company blow up in one of our basic working roads, the tourism. We see an enormous merger in the market that I think will matter. I think economic management needs to take place within the tourism service, a certain compression, but it's not the same time you're cutting the teeth from the SEC. That's why I say, it's much more now, under the pandemic, including, the situation in tourism and in many other parts of the community, that we should have slowed it down precisely. As I say, we have been prepared to use ourselves to have a parapolitic cooperation about this, but we have also had more voices at the table right away to strengthen more fully the principle that lies around the competitive issues that are incredibly important to us. I would also like to point to the weight of the reviews of the ASI and the Neighbour Association. There's nothing here but a certain precipice that leads us, or the government groups, to run this case through. I would have liked to work it much better and to stress also thinking about the context of the Contestance Board, in the light of the situation we are today where, as I had within the past, the buy chance of the big ones, and hopefully we don't experience this crisis that the government hasn't done anything to keep the game rules healthy which will help make it not always be the same old faces as the same old friends who buy up the brain and the market. I don't want to see that. We must also keep in mind the vital context of the Contestant Board and the competitive, efficient competitive market. That's the main part of the Icelandic business. I'm reminded that 9094% of companies are small and medium-sized enterprises. They are the pillar, the main chair, in Icelandic employment, and they are the firm, as well as the consumers themselves, who rely on active competitive surveillance, who rely on surveillance to ask certain questions, because there are certain small companies and medium-sized companies who do not dare to ask questions or rock the boat because of fear and insecurity to those who have the money and are the big parties at the market. So, at a small market like this, there will be a competitive environment, which, in turn, will always be a direct match between size benefits on a small market. We can see that in certain areas, a market size has taken place, which is good and important to increase the cost of economic growth. But we must also be careful that this balance exists between active competition and the size of economic conditions. That is why, including. which I pay attention to taking steps that my opinion is not clear and sharp enough to strengthen the position of consumers and SMEs. I also underlined it earlier: The story and the lead say so much about the government's attitude in terms of consumers and competition, that the government was initially intended to weaken and repeal the authority of the Contestant to represent the courts. That's what it's all about. It also tells us that we were here a few weeks ago discussing the consumers' affairs, that the government is putting aside a case in terms of package travel, a case that was contrary to property and even consumer protection. Therefore, I say, this highlights the state and the government's attitude toward consumers and competitive people. And speaking of competition and attitudes as to competition and general game rules at a competitive market, we have repeatedly proposed a bill to put down the prices of farms, which is nothing more than a historical heritage that no longer serves a purpose in the modern world of competition, if one really wants to build up competition. We have also proposed to set aside specific rules for a specific company at the dairy market, the Galactics. But the government has exactly spared this, having specific rules about a particular company, their company, on the market. It is not to be mentioned here in this plagion hall that all competitive laws apply to the milk market. There's no mention here. I say this, and I draw it out to show that there are no special patrols in the government when it comes to consumers or competition. Then you hear the opposition on the side of the government that they will not reach their noses when it comes to healthy competition and the government. I agree completely with that. We should do much more to emphasize that competitive laws apply also to the public in certain areas. No question about it. But what has been the experience when we have submitted a bill to ensure the access of private drivers, e.g. in the field of health care to relieve the waiting lists? What has the Independence Party done? Encouraging our proposal to adapt the crisis that exists in the community in terms of replacement operations and other such measures. And I see no better than that today, the relationship between the young provincials, its vice president, made a very strong criticism of members of the Independence Party in this regard. So this is just one thing when the lndependence Party members come up here and talk about competition, talk about private business; when they get the chance here in this room to press the green button, it's never done. Then it is always the red button because either the suggestions do not come from the right person or the Law covenant is not to be exceeded. Okay, that may be understandable, but just say it. It's about saying that, but don't come up here and don't talk about the importance of personal failures, but don't do anything to encourage them to become stronger in the community, rather than then present such a case as here, which somehow draws their teeth from consumer protection. I will also make it clear that there have been some changes in the case of the committee, such as those mentioned in paragraph 16. The law of the law, the c-party of a market analysis that was intended to be unexposed, but a certain application is of interest to me, and if you have a right to the situation, the device could become important to the Contesting Board. But so far, this instrument has been used by the Contestance Board and the government wanted to take it off, has been important and could be a guide for the market if the surveillance had a clearer authority to do so. I think this is a development there and a change in the good. There would be something wrong with an Icelandic community if the big parties in the community weren't unhappy with the Contestance, it's normal for them to be. Don't think it's weird. Sometimes it has been true, one thing and another can be criticized by the Contestant Board, and you haven't always understood this time, it's not until you start looking into the budget that has been given to the surveillance that you begin to understand the context. The budget has naturally been made blue, but there is nothing in the budget that indicates that the government has some ambition or virtue in it or that it shows that it is actually going to take the competition seriously by raising money for observation. I sure would have liked to see this factor, the guidance and analysis part, become activated much better by a clear political will, and especially by the Lawgiver. It's not taking that step here. But these voices of the great party may be heard, perhaps with a powerful organization behind them that often perform well, but at times it may become melodious, sometimes out of proportion. The voices we hear from consumers, however, are not quite as strong as from the government, as I have mentioned and can point out matters that have gone against consumer interests. Then we must have a defense device for consumers, this security valve for consumers, and that's the competition law. That is why we must be more careful. We have repeatedly declared that certain changes in the competitive legislation are needed to make them simpler, to make them more efficient, without reducing the greatest measure of control and control role we want the Contestance Control to protect the small and medium-sized companies, to protect the consumers. That's why I would have wished that before a minister would have made this case a cross-cutting committee, I believe it's not too late, to revise the competitive legislation, and all the views that have been presented in this important matter. There has been widespread criticism within the educational community, in the media. This calls for careful discussion and discussion on this second important matter. A respectable president. There is much to consider in this great business of small and medium-sized enterprises, the consumers of the Icelandic community, to have a powerful consumer and competitive protection. We can often see that if we didn't have the rule outside, we would be worse off as consumers and worse off in our jobs. We see that large international companies often swallow the market. While countries and individual countries are not alone, relationships can take into account a targeted approach, such as the European Union has been doing with these big companies and international corporations such as Amazon, Google, and Apple. Who says that such a nation like Iceland can't get through here? There are flashes of light about certain conglomerates, which are in the hands of certain individuals. It is worth considering that we see a certain development. Therefore, when changing the competitive legislation, I ask a greater part of the council to step to the ground. I believe this case has grown so that with better and more coverage, it could be achieved much more than is now being done. I think a few more months of discussion about the matter would not hurt it but will further strengthen it, thus strengthening consumers and strong competitions and free trades in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u130	Mr. President. This article considers a bill to legalize the laws of the method of loyalty and pollution, No. 7/190, including EFS rules and plastic products. We received 17 visitors, seven reviews, and one report. Here is the opinion of the committee: ▪ With this bill, there are new laws on loyalty and pollution control, No. 7/1998, and waste management laws, No. 55/2003, as per European Parliament Directive and Council Directive (EU) 2019/904 from 5 June 2019 to minimise the impact of some plastic products on the environment. The bill aims to reduce the impact of plastic use on people's environment and health, consumers consider the consumption and environmental effects of plastics, reduce the use of disposable plastic products, and support the use of multi-use products. The main element of the bill is to avoid introduction of specific single-use plastic products and to deliver disposable cups and containers without charge, the format and composition of certain single-use drinking containers, the establishment of official monitoring of the follow-up of plastic products and the restoration of the regulations for plastic products. [...] It is thought that one important objective of the community is to limit the use of plastics as well as to increase and improve its efficiency as environmentally-friendly recycling. Single-use plastic products are among the products of environmentally developed goods, are poorly used for recycling, and produce most of the plastic waste that is grown in ocean and lakes, or on land and inhabited land. It should be noted regarding the formality of the case by the introduction of European regulations that a greater proportion of the EU Parliamentary Regulations are entitled to correct the terms of the Conventional Management of the European Union by law No. 55/1991 of the General Assembly, including aimed at ensuring that the disposal of legislation through the implementation of EU-type rules is in a set and consistent manner. It is important that differences are made between cases where the European Commission's legislation on the rules is being made, as appropriate in this case, and the introduction. In both cases, improvement is observed for the specific type, but only in the latter case, in the sense of EEA rights, is essentially induction. Using the motion that Directive 2019/904 has not been adopted in the EEA Convention, opinions for the Commission showed that there was no need to validate the directive's rules at this time, where the directive was still to be considered at the scene of the EFS and EFTA countries, and no national obligation was made for introductions. As shown in a paper with the bill, it is important to initiate the legalization of the directive's regulations in order to improve probeability and to allow employment and public opportunities to adapt to new rules before they become valid. Most of the directive's regulations are carried out on July 3, 2021; further implementation takes place between 2023 and 2024. The bill will not go beyond the directive; therefore, Icelandic companies will have to meet the same demands as companies in other countries in the European Economic Areas. If this occurs, the directive will be changed in later stages, e.g. In this respect, the Icelandic government's standard will start working to adapt legislation to this change. For the Committee it was made comments that with the bill, only part of the directive (EU) 2019/904 is legalized, not its laws on the extended responsibility of the manufacturer on plastic products. The laws on how to use and how to handle plastics would be considered responsible for the products of plastic products. The majority agree with this but also shows that the intended regulations should not be fulfilled until 2023 and 2024. It is wise to provide government and employment with more space to prepare for their legalisation. It will also be good to note that the waste waste directive's requirement for the extension of the manufacturer's responsibility will be laid at the same time as the directive's directive (EU) 2018/851 on waste waste products based on the extended manufacturer's responsibility. Based on information from the Environment and Resource Ministry, this is the year that the EU Directive will be implemented from 2018, this number. 851, submitted to the 2020 Fall Summit. For the Committee it came to the conclusion that the bill laid down burdensome requirements for producers of drinking the minimum part of the content of plastic re-use drinking products in plastic disposable products without providing comparable demands for manufacturers of other products that use plastic materials in the packaging. With the bill, the directive (EU) Directive of 2019/904 is fully followed in terms of the specific plastic products that will end up predictable that the directive's directives will be implemented into Icelandic without change. It's very important that you do so. The bill is a step toward setting laws that increase demand for recycling plastics for products production. The majority agree that increasing the recycling of plastics in this country is important and aims at the Environment and Resource Ministry to examine procedures during the introduction of the next steps into the economy. The more important part is to ensure that comparable requirements for recycling dressings made from a mixture of plastics and paper or other materials apply to all single-use plastic containers for drinking products and other products used to match plastic products made from more than one chemical materials that are difficult to recycle. The committee commented on the need for special layers on plastic products. The majority refer to a paper with the bill for reasons that the directive (EU) 2019/904 will be legalized by altering the loyalty and pollution laws. The Commission has received confirmation from the Environment and Resource Ministry that at the door there is a full reexamination of the law on committees. They will be given an opportunity to evaluate the need to divide the law and, for example, divide it. write individual documents about plastics and plastic products. The majority rejoices with the work done at the Environment and Resource Ministry and is forced to provide a whole range of national waste legislation. It is specifically encouraged to implement a planned review as soon as possible, providing a model for the disposal, classification and recycling of each plastic product according to the best standards and the highest environmental requirements. In the treatment of the case for the Committee, it was found that the bill would not provide recycling as an important link in the economy. A sorting system would have to be established for the packaging with the improved plastic label as it will be easier to sort them and recycle them. The majority agree that there is an important and worthy task, but it shows that the directive (EU) 2019/904 is limited to the use of disposable plastic products and does not address the entire waste system. The majority of its parts are considered to be a number of plastic products and plastic items will continue to follow around the world. It is more important to treat the materials as raw materials after the use of plastic products. In view of the fact that the concomitant use of single-use plastic products is very important, such as other plastic products, is being recycled as much as possible in the most practical and environmentally appropriate way. The majority stress that the prohibition against disposable plastic products and financial incentives to limit sale and spread of such products are only one of the many stages in the use and treatment of plastics. In this context and with a reference to the proposed global review of laws in the topic field, the majority of the components encourage increased consultation with strategists and specialists in plastic products, recycling and product development when it comes to continuing work in the modeling of waste policy and recycling in the spirit of the cycle economy. Only a few words about local goods. For the Committee, there were some of the products that would be expected to be marketed as plastic disposable products drop down. Local goods were noted not only to be used but also to be products made from materials other than plastics, e.g. Papers and we. At that time, they would be much more expensive in shopping than in plastic products. The majority of the data shows that, according to the latest available data, the proportion of recycled plastic shops that fell to this country in the country was 43% on average. In comparison, the recycling rate of paper and cardboard stores over the same period was less than 87%. The bill is therefore aimed at promoting more use of reusable products instead of disposable plastic products. Data on the benefits of local transport products, their suitability for recycling and different carbon and ecosystems have been observed. International development and scientific work is the basis for the production of contaminated standards, as well as products that can replace plastic products, to be acceptable. Therefore, it is subject to increased environmental awareness and research. Notes were made for the C-type 5 regulations. the bill that only a single use drinking container with a stopper or plastic cap is allowed if the cap or lid is placed on the container. It may be expected that by means of a legal fixation device with an attached plastic cap, plastics will be increased in the package, resulting in increased production costs and higher carbon footprints drinking. Taking into account the indications given to the Commission on the issue and having agreed with the Environment and Resource Ministry, the majority contributes to the removal of the directive from the bill. Instead, the law will be transferred to the legal hearing of the earlier directive (EU) 2018/851 aimed at laying up at the 2020 autumn Council. By delaying the legalisation of this arrangement, there is an opportunity for further preparation and follow-up with the development that can be expected in the months to come for a firm stopper and closure. This was the main component of the committee's opinion of the greater part, with a total of six changes made. I'm not recording them. This is mostly a minor change in explanations, although it is 1st. c-arms 5. The bill will be removed. It is time to account for the payment. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason was absent from the case. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's son was absent there too, but he also writes in advance about this in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, an officer of the committee, agrees with the opinion. So it's signed here with a what. Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, who is here chairman, Brunís Haraldsdóttir, Gólán Brjánsson Brujánsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, in advance, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otcarsson Proppé, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Vilmimurm Árnason. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u131	Mr. President. I recommend my share of the Environment and Transport Committee on this bill involved in changing the laws on commitment and pollution control, No. 7/1998, on EEA rules, especially plastic products. The smaller portion agrees with the main objective and subject of the bill. The minority feels that the bill has moved in better ways in the management of the Committee and that the changes in the Committee's list of objects are greatly improved, e.g. for fixes which the most part did, e.g. about a stuck plastic cap and was doing an account just now. Then the smaller part takes a whole mind to the importance of the objectives being targeted by the bill, i.e. to reduce the impact of plastics on the environment and human health, consumers consider the consumption and environmental effects of plastics, to reduce the use of disposable plastic products and to support the use of multi-use products. We agree, but we believe that the limitations of this bill are strong enough to be the best way to get it right with the stakeholders and bring it back to the next council. The main element of the bill turns to ban the use of certain disposable plastic products and deliver disposable cups and containers without charge. They require the preparation and composition of certain drinking containers, to establish official monitoring of the follow-up of plastic products regulations and to restore the regulations for plastic products regulations. Using the definition (EU) 2019/904, the EEA Convention did not reveal a view for the Commission of unnecessary legalization of the directive's regulations at this point and the lack of national obligation for us Icelanders to implement these regulations in the National Court. The case would still be taken into consideration at the EEA and EFTA countries, and therefore it would not be shut down for any change in the regulations or principles of the directive. In the context of this work, it can be noted that the European Commission shall have a later date than July 3, the second in consultation with Member States to provide guidelines for single-use plastic products, including examples of what is considered to be a single-use plastic product in the understanding of the directive. So it's due now in a few days. This helps to remind us that the directive's requirement is basically being carried out in the European Union on July 3, 2021, i.e. After more than one year, and the part of the directive will not be carried out until 2023 and 2024 and therefore enough time for a better policy to take place. For the Committee it was also made comments that with the bill, only legalisation of part of the directive's regulations, e.g. not its provisions for the prolonged responsibility of the manufacturer for plastic products. Mr. President. The rules of waste here are marked by buttocks, with various laws in different layers of law. The legal environment is ambiguous, incomprehensible, and most important, inaccessible for the public and the institutions working on the outworking of these laws. The minority feels that the overall impact of the bill on waste has not been clearly determined when the directive's directive's directives are laid down in stipulations such as this one. Waste cases are a complex class of subjects, and changes in one area can have an unpredictable impact on other aspects of the system. The less important point is to contribute a bill to a change in waste management law at the autumn Council of 2020. In part, it is normal for this bill to be worked together with that bill and to be sure that the terms of both bills are compatible. With reference to the above points, the lower part is untimely and unwise to validate the rules set out in the bill, and it is reasonable to conclude that there is no one else that has fallen but to increase the complexity of the principle. A better chance of reevaluating the principle and providing chemical primary products in the area of waste, including the special provisions for plastic products. Reroutes the more relevant indications for the Environment and Resource Ministry to aim to shape a whole-scale legal policy for the benefit of the public, companies and the government. It was suggested to the Committee that the bill would be given to a minister a broad and open licence for further implementation in the Regulation of the requirements laid on manufacturers and others of the law, e.g. for the marking of single-use plastic products, the minimum proportion of recycled plastics in disposable plastic bottles for drinking products, the complete aim of plastic collection devices, the obligation to sell or dispense disposable plastics etc., as you can see. of 3. par, 3 mgr. b-joints and 2 mgr. c-arms 5. The bill. With such an open source, a minister has actually been given a legal authority for the implementation of administrative directives that may have a profound negative impact on all members of the community involved. The minority agrees with these views presented to the committee and believes that it is a matter of caution against the vast supply of power to a minister named the regulations of the bill. Mr. President. In view of the greater part, the importance of the implementation of the bill in spite of the directive (EU) 904/2019 is not adopted in the EEA Convention and only is there to validate part of its principles supported by evidence that the quality and scope that must be given to the public and to practice in order to adapt to new rules before they become valid. That's the same argument as the bill showed. On the contrary, Mr. President, the Commission's sources of employment and local organisations suggest that the legislation of the bill be postponed until the conclusion of the implementation of the directive within the EEA and the EFTA states is established and that there can be a better operation at the level of the government. The lesser part agrees with these views and gives the impression that it is too difficult to support the progress of the bill with reference to visuality and space when key stakeholders, which generally celebrate the objectives of the bill, feel that it is advisable to pause and do better. Clearly, professional life needs a high level of preparation at the cost of the bill. In view of the uncertainty presented here, as well as the limitations of the committee on the bill, less is involved in countering the issue. The Committee discussed the products that could be replaced by the disposable plastic products covered by the bill. It was suggested that with the bill, the product was created criteria for the marketing of products so far plastic but if ever produced from the PHARE mountains, which are not considered to have a significant environmental benefit over conventional plastics. It would go against the objective of the bill to offer such a route past its bounds. It was noted that local disposable plastic products are not only for many use but also for disposable products made from materials other than plastics, e.g. cardboard or available. As these products are more expensive in shopping than plastic products, consumers will eventually increase their economic costs. In view of my share, the less part is required to wait for the EU guidelines, wait for these rules on what is considered to be a single-use plastic product, whether or not the Directive will take change in the uptake of the EEA Convention, and how its materials will be implemented in other EFTA countries. The lesser part, assigned to those who speak here and why. Therefore, a member of Parliament and the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, Ólason, suggests that the bill is not successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u132	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I want to take advantage of this opportunity and come up here and first, agree with the viewpoints. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiç in the preceding talk, but we are together on the minority of the transport and environment committees available on the case. On this occasion, I would like to make an additional decision. A senator, when the senator reviewed the minor opinion, said that in this matter, as you think, there are times when environmental issues are particularly affected, and plastic has been particularly damaged in many ways. in a visitor's office, criticism of a case approved during the last assembly, where the use of disposable plastic bags was tight, and so on, and so on. This is somehow so that all stakeholders in the case, I allow myself to say, which in one way or another handles plastic products, whether in production or recycling, suggested that we speed up in this matter, use the time available for the induction rules, wait to see how the regular work would be implemented and carried out in the EEA area, and so on. And I'd really like to allow myself to criticize that we don't use the amount of space we really have in these things. In a committee program signed by Karl Gauti Hjaltason, a subheading of the U.S. P.A. and unremarkable legislation is made by permission of the president: The main part feels that it has not been clearly identified how the bill will affect its entire waste system when the directive's directive's directives are set in force. [...] Note that the aim is to contribute the bill for a change in waste management law at the autumn Council of 2020, and it is reasonable to conclude that this bill is cooperated with it and to make sure that the directives are compatible. Of course, it's just a fair requirement, I think we can say, that this is the best way to shoes on this subject. There are comments from the Committee's work, both in reviews and in visitors, which are that there was no reason for us to continue running this issue in the way this is done. At least two thirds of the whole thing gives me more space in time than here is being used, and it's back to 2025. By permission of the President: Then the less part points to the main implementation of the directive's directive within July 3, 2021, and parts are not to be carried out until 2023 and 2024, and therefore enough time to work the case better. It is obvious that there is no time for this. First, we should take the time we feel it is necessary to work this way properly. And second, I think it's good for the Icelandic economy and the Icelandic rule of taking the time available to see in whatever way this is introduced into neighboring countries. So we do not constantly find ourselves in the position of having introduced things in a way that makes us more Catholic than the pope.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u133	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee Animatement with a dynamic bill proposal to correct the change in regional transport law, No. 160/2011, with subsequent changes, the desalination of oil input charge. As mentioned at the highest. The President lies the matter himself, the bill, on the deck. 1269 and the committee, with a change in their budget. 1737. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought to mind a number of visitors. The Commission received a review of 11 sources, additional to which the Committee received memos from the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs and a Capacent report prepared for the oil supply supply system before the bill was submitted. The bill suggests that the equations of oil transport, No. 10 103/1994 will be canceled. In this way, the transport balance fund for oil products is laid and can be placed in a special unit of transport for all items transported to the country and intended for use within the country. Instead, based on local guidelines, and in order to ensure the availability of urban fuel, the bill is proposed to change the regional transport law, No. 160/2011. Legal arrangements will be provided to support the implementation of the Agency for the transport costs of oil products for sales sales at regional and geographically-based sites that are in poor competition for national and demographic reasons. As regards decision-making, arrangements and calculation, it will be strengthened according to the rules established by the minister in accordance with the total budget for the transport of oil products to the budgets of each year, the sold content of oil products at the appropriate site, and the based index of the rules and should reflect the competitiveness of the region in accordance with the Based on the assessment of the Agency. According to a report on the bill, this programme aims to ensure funding on the basis of equationary, objective and transparency rules. It's the combination, what's going on there, but in short, the system in use is being shut down in 1995 and a new system that supports sale sites of oil products in the most vulnerable regions of the country. A key concept in this new system is a cohesion factor, but to the Committee, questions were raised as to whether the arrangements in the bill would be to simplify the delivery of oil products. There would not be enough basis for assessment as the design and calculation of the coherence index determined whether the laws on increased transparency and simplicity were met. There was a view that the basis for such factors would be unclear and that there might be a complex calculation of coherence. As a result, the change would not be simple. However, from a bill report it would be clear that the contributing factor would not be based on the cost of oil distribution, which must be the most important variable of transport costs, but on conditions in place. As a result, political interests would be put at risk with regard to decision making for transport, based on thought - provoking evaluations. Lack of leadership in distribution would be supported by the ability to create uncertainty in negotiations and decision-making in the management of donors. This was the main criticism the committee then sought to answer in their work. That even happened. ... throughtheformer-namedmill of the Department of Transport and Division. It suggests that the Agency is expected to contribute to a minister on the basis of grounds that the Agency feels the best way to secure oil products in sensitive areas. Support must be included in a Regulation published in the Management News and realized that the basis will be predictable and beneficial each year. This will allow each of the most sensitive areas to be met. With reference to the commentaries of the 4th Article bill. has a building agency primarily to make sure that communities include objective conclusions on the competitiveness of areas and communities in a regional way. The Agency is free to look to the views that might lead to a conclusion that would best be in line with the purpose of the law, e.g. the number of people or tourists in the area, or the distance from roadways, large urban areas, supply stations, or import stations oil. The Commission received an introduction to the Regulation, but if the bill is legal, the Regulation will open the discussion, where others will be given the opportunity to make comments to it. The committee agrees that the network is a simple, transparent and predictable way of achieving the law's purpose to ensure oil supply in areas that are vulnerable in a local way. However, there may always be issues of opinion regarding the circumstances of individual communities and their coherence. Of course, circumstances may change, and it is vital that we act on them. It was about the network. Then it's about the price charge and the price development and the rise in the cost of goods. A paper with the bill shows that a donation from a government fund to a regional transport equation will be financed by an increase in oil products for goods. It was criticized for the committee. Already, however, the transfer price would be for an oil prices price, pointing out that there would be no need to raise the price. The result of the change is that the measured transport balance costs have been in the last year in the range of 370,400 billion. K. Annually, but it is expected that the cost of a new arrangement will be 170 million. K. Annually, prices for oil products increase at least one year. Total transport costs drop 200 to230 million. K. every year. Since it is now suggested that the cost of growth be strengthened on the basis of local interest rather than solely on the basis of transport costs, these charges will be reduced. However, the aim is to keep fuel exported in forestry areas at lower costs than is now being maintained in the transport equation. The committee agrees that the increase in oil products product charge is a simpler and more efficient way than the current transport balance charge, as well as a reduction in oil products. So there's gonna be both simple and subsidized. At that time, the commission was considered as a matter of the effect of the change in competition. I'm not going to review all the findings, but according to the Capacent assessment report on the basis of changes in the transport balance of oil products, fuel prices are not considered to be much more likely to change significantly during the conversion process, in others and in a much stronger degree of energy. Because of differences in land distribution, the consequences could decrease sales places and thus increase fuel availability. The Commission has to agree that the objective of the bill is to ensure access to fuel in the most vulnerable regions of the country and to reach its target, it must be met by traders as operating places in regional and demographic areas. Then there were some rules on state strength and national commitments and I'm just going to mention the results of the Committee there. The committee believes that the bill falls on current rules and commitments in this area. You can also read about it in the committee's opinion. Only groups of oil products, however, were identified with the expression "gress. " The bill did not take into account current standards for fuel classification. The receipt of a local oil company is all based on the standards and therefore the classes of ISO standards that are generally used for this purpose. The Commission sought the opinion of the Ministry that supported these views, so the Committee suggests changes in the bill to require that the equations take on transport costs of oil products, with the same exception of not achieving the value of oil exported. There is further evidence that a minister should make rules concerning the types of oil products that are permitted to strengthen. In view of the high levels of oil products, there are many and variable reasons for granting a minister access to regulations rather than legally attaching certain types of oil products, in case a group of oil products fell from use, or if there were no reason to further strengthen its sale due to other views, e.g. The environmental issues. So here's the coverage of aircraft fuel transport. In the treatment of the problem, it was a view that the bill would also equalize the cost of aircraft fuel because of international flights from airports outside the capital area. A partner's competitiveness and international airports in the country would have to be improved, where airplane fuel would be more expensive than the southwestern corner. In fact, there were a number of comments on the equations of aircraft fuel transport, which is actually quite clear, both in the bill and in the discussion of the committee, that this bill cannot cover it and I'm just going to review the evidence. Such a change would mean significant changes in government management systems, and this change would in any case have to be reported to ESA. No analysis has been made to determine whether such reinforcements have been made to reduce fuel prices. As a result, it is not yet the time to make such a recommendation. In fact, there has been a small proportion of the total transport balance in the past few years, a very small part, and the aims of this bill are primarily to ensure access to urban fuel. However, in this committee, the importance of the early decision-making is presented in B-10's base plan to balance the facilities for international airport service. As the government's policy is to open more gates into the country than to work that the goal has taken longer than it was planned for us to adopt a regional strategy. This section on funding, which was asked for the Committee to facilitate the balance of oil transport costs under each year's budget, would be excluded from the requirements and would follow the targets of the groundwork. Experience showed that funding was more dependent on the State Fund requirements at any given time than on development. This was part of the anxiety that goals were not achieved because of limited resources. The Commission stresses that the value of support for transport is maintained in accordance with the assessment of the Agency's need for transport balance at any given time, as it is the basis of the system and is necessary to achieve the objectives of the bill. There's energy exchange in transport. A review of the effects of direct distribution of specific sources of energy would have to be made on the development and spread of other energy sources, in view of the government's energy exchange policy. It would be important to follow the development of densely populated areas and to use specialized force to face the development of the truck fleet. A bill will discuss the interaction of government aims to switch to environmental energy sources and transport grants due to oil products sold under the bill. Clearly, employment roads and transport in urban areas are still dependent on oil products as energy sources and on the particular market to ensure that services with oil products remain in sensitive areas, at least during the energy change. The material of the bill is essential in reaching such a goal. The committee believes that it is important that the system prescribed in the bill does not work against government policy on energy change. In addition, there will be no more than the fact that support for the actual needs of the vulnerable living at any given time is a prerequisite for long - term development, including energy exchange. Then there is the last section in the Committee's opinion of the definition of regional transport transporters, but regional transport laws have to do with the volume of transport to the manufacturer and the definition of terms in Article 3. Deal with it. The Commission called attention to the discrepancies that would arise, and the bill would be a law. The Ministry included the need to update the specific definition of the law in agreement with the proposed material changes, as transport is not limited to the manufacturer. In addition, two other changes were pointed out to improve this difference further. On the one hand, clearly stated at 1 mg. 7. The Act that it should be mentioned in the Regulation what data to adhere to the transport transfer capacity application for oil products sale, such as 5.g. the bill that suggests changes to that article, and the new sentence being added by Article 9. The laws that clearly require that the Minister for Transport Control to the manufacturer will also refer to the transport balance concentration for oil products sale and what to show in this section. This suggests that there is an additional article on the subject. According to this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes I have already made. Under countless printed page. Senators Anna Sævarsdóttir, Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Vilhjálmur Árnason and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. Hv. Senators Hanna Katrín Friðriksson and Hjaltason Gautiêtes, under notice. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion under warrant at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. If so, I have made the matter clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u134	Mr. President. We've heard the committee's opinion now. The Environment and Transport Committee on this bill, which may not be crucial to the economic and national benefits of the country, is of considerable importance to the scattered areas of the country. First and foremost, the bill involves two kinds of changes. On the one hand, the balance of oil transport costs is canceled. The transport costs for all oil products transported to the country must be stopped and are intended to be used within the country. However, a change in regional transport law has been made in 2011 and improved for the development of a eutrophication by means of oil transport costs. This is similar to the 2011 regional transport legislation. Their aim is to support the production and work structure of the country by equalizing the transport costs of the manufacturers located far from the domestic market or export point of transport and by having a less competitive position because of higher transport costs compared to those in the local market. These laws were changed in 2018 and apply from that time also to the hosting of transporters to individuals or lawyers producing and producing fruit, flowers, or vegetables, and to the full production of goods to be sold. Mr. President. It can be handled slowly by whether the transfer of fossil fuels, which we are targeted at, is time error. This was shown by the Committee's work and may even be presented with a modification proposal that this transport balance will be completely decomposed. It must be remembered that the supply of energy sources for transport in the affected sensitive areas varies. To date, therefore, heavy machinery and motor vehicles will not be available, e.g. In agriculture, with new energy sources but that time will probably come. Meanwhile, it is normal for a nation to be equal to it as possible. Transport equations are also important for major users, i.e. users who use a substantial amount of oil, such as in small boats. It is important in peripheral areas, in small settlements where the small boat output is considerable. So the law was canceled, and by means of the transport balance fund, and the situation goes to a kennel, as the above says, as is the regional transport equation. Thus, when we shop for small sales for oil, they pay a special amount of transfers that are laid on the oil. With law No. In fact, 47/2018 was made up of the change in income, not in a special supply of transport that was defined, but in a government fund. Furthermore, on the basis of financial sources, a minister should determine the budget of the oil transfer system, at the minimum of the budget for the collection of expenses. Thus, the impact on the state funds should be negligible or absent. In 2016 the income was about 366 billion. By 2017, they increased to 387 million, and in 2018 they increased further, to 403 million. No doubt they also rose in 2019 C.E., but these numbers are not ideal. The budget determined this year is 375 billion. K. Thus, a wealth of over 400 million probably goes to the bank. In the future, the building agency will permanently handle this factor, and the bill will succeed. It is very effective to put this service in a clear, professional direction in the fine setting of activity of a living agency. It was made in transport. The senator's preconceived plans are for a concentration policy on transport costs. Based on the law, building agency is expected to provide support for transport costs of oil products by sales agents who provide services in less competitive areas due to location or localisation or to special sensitive areas. This Regulation uses so - called based forces. For example, areas that previously received funds for the transport index 0 are referred to as sales positions less than two miles [3 km] from a highway 1 or urban core that has more than 2,000 inhabitants. This is therefore defined in a much more targeted and more transparent way. The impact of the bill on the state funds is that instead of the particular price on oil products, a direct contribution from state funds is made to a regional transport equation of 170 million. A., as mentioned in the case of the two. A senator earlier. It will be financed by already existing oil products, which will be used fully to equal the cost, distribution, and sale of oil products in the country. The bill thus assumes that there will be no effects on the state funds. Clearly, Mr. President, this is a relief from the oil companies. So far, they have been paying, or more accurately said consumers, buyers of fuel, more than 400 million with a special supply price. According to the bill, less money for transport flows, or more than 175 million. K. As the post is in those days, and they shall be charged with a higher rate. This means at least 220◯230 million will be left with the oil companies. It will be interesting to see if consumers are allowed to enjoy these favorable changes to lower fuel. If the beloved market that the present government has so much faith in works, it should indeed. This bill strengthens the legal framework for transport, but there has been considerable disagreements with oil importers with the current arrangements. Some of them are now having lawsuits for this reason. Mr. President. Our commitments to the EEA agreement on government grants are discussed in the report. The current arrangement is set aside so long that it was already in the condition of the EEA Treaty. The bill primarily includes the changes made in a simple calculation that strengthens the coherence of cohesion, as well as the better indentation of coherences. As noted in a committee sheet and killed above, it is important that by means of the system adopted in this bill, there will not be any discount on Iceland's target of transport energy exchange, it will not work in any way to discourage it. The need to keep on the watch is to develop support for the distribution of renewable energy, if considered practical, as well as to increase the number of electricity sources or other sources of renewable energy. But we are not yet in the area with large machines and equipment for rural and mobile transport that they can take advantage of to a degree of these advantages. But we're moving fast and fast. Mr. President. I'm a sponsor for this bill and these changes. I think it's a good try and a good process and it's a good thing to do with a graffiti. The existing protocol is clear. Of course, we have learned that what seems very clear and clear and simple will not be done, and the matter will not be intervening. All of this, of course, depends on the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u135	A respectable president. A pilot and a boy. paritaprevir This case has been handled well by the Guðjón of S. Brjánsson. I simply have one motion of removing all of this just because it was shown in the reviews and in the visitors who came before the committee that all the 400 million who enter the state funds are reassigned, to the distributor, etc. which pays the original price for importing oil products. This is an intermediate transfer between the importer and the manufacturer, which are pretty much the same partners. After all, only one party comes into the plus after all these transfers. It doesn't matter who it is, but there's a difference of 25 million. 25 million. K. ... isallthehawk that these songs and all this fuss cost. Instead of wearing all of this equipment around this transport balance fund, it is best to put this arrangement down. This can be corrected differently, e.g. in a structured program, or something like it, if necessary, for these 25 million people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u136	A respectable president. I'm here offering an opinion with a change in bill proposal to legalize a variety of water supply laws, fish farms and salmon and trout fishing because of simple regulations and administration. The committee has discussed the matter and has received several members to their meeting, as it says here. The Committee received reviews from Fish Office, Marine Research and Counseling Agency of the seas and lakes, Land Contact with Smallboat owners, Land Contact with Fishing Association, Food Institute, The Union of Icelandic rural Society and Competent Association. The objective of the bill is simple rule and government in the field of fishing and fishing. The changes proposed in the bill include removing 22 layers that are considered out - of - date or unnecessary. It is also suggested that a draft hunt be canceled, and instead the fish of the Regulation will be discussed. It is then suggested that the decision - making committee on unsurpassed sea forces be laid down and the Ministry committed to that committee's work. Minimum share of registered sailors. The committee made comments on Article 4. The bill that suggests removal of the 3rd matter will be 11 mg. Section 6. a Song on Fishing Control, No. 116/2006, but it states that if the owner of a fishing vessel is authorized by law, it is authorised to recommend that the registered seamen on the fishing ship have a minimum share in the legislation of the legislature. The comment was made that instead of disposing the issue, the directive should be activated and the requirements for minimum share in the law, whether by law or by regulation. The requirement should not be disposed of by scourging. A thought - provoking question would be whether the change would violate the purpose of a beach fishing to pay for modern fishing and make it easier for people to gain experience and knowledge. The bill's report shows the comments at Article 4. that this law was difficult to implement, since it could easily be avoided by postponing further data on the property of sailors. The reason was that the Fish Room did not require a copy of a beach fishing application that showed that the applicant or the person who was going to be legalized on the boat had a share in the boat or the company that owned the boat, as there was a large number of applications to be covered within a short period of time. Because of this, the rule has proved unconventional and should therefore be removed. However, the law states that no owners who have a boat with a beach fishing permit could be involved unless they had a single beach fishing permit. The majority agree with the above views in the bill's report. Fishing and fishing gear, 15th. A- force 15. The bill is proposed to make the change to 8. the management of fish diseases the obligation to disinfect the fishing equipment before being used to fish in Icelandic fish water, as there is insufficient proof of the assessment of the Food Agency, but the Agency can also assign action to the tax authorities as appropriate. In accordance with local requirements, you must disinfect a food supply that has been used abroad before they are moved into the country. The clearance is performed in flight crews and import crews and is depending on the events in the hands of toll authority or private partners, while the Food Agency has observed and given instructions. For example, at Leifs Station, a disinfection procedure will be performed. in the hands of private workers, but in Seyster's crew, customs authorities are monitoring and disinfecting. According to the bill's report, every year the workers of the Food Agency have disinfected dozens of fishing equipment that have entered the country or been received in some other way, such as by ships, private planes, or by mail. With the above adjustments, food companies can hide the establishment of disinfectants in accordance with the rules established by the Agency to simplify the project, achieve increased economic resources for all people, and protect fishing lakes and rivers. by means of the assembly of the hunters, who are involved in such protection. It is similar with what has been done in neighboring countries of Norway and the Faeroe Islands, but it was found that the disinfectant involved is only a facility for cleaning. Then it was found that the Food Institute does not see any success in the otherwise occurring arrangement, i.e. that the Customs have under control and will continue to be offered a disinfectant for used fishing equipment at Leifs station and Underground Harbor. Based on the above, the majority of the items do not violate this change. However, the importance of the imported fishing equipment is disinfected for use in hunting and the availability of proof for proof, but otherwise the adjustment of the environment on the disinfection of air crews and import systems is not expected. Permission to hunt with a draft. The bill suggests that in the whole of Iceland's Fishland weekend, fishing in 12 miles from the reference line depends on the permission of Fishing Rooms, such as 5 and 6. track No. 79/1997. The majority believe that based on current legislation, the procedure can be simplified. In this way, a change in Regulation measures recommend that a special diet for drag fishing may be valid for longer than one year at a time, e.g. by allowing a special license to continue as long as a ship has access to commercial fishing. Therefore, the majority do not consider it necessary to change the law to simplify drag management and suggest that a- and c-joints 1. ... goout. A case of state-of-the-art Fision warrant. Changes suggested to paragraphs 25 and 26. The bill has a law on a particular price due to nonstatutory marine resources, No. 37/1992, the decision-making committee for a special fee due to an illegal sea level will be submitted, and the law will be authorized to prosecute the decisions made by a fish lab to the Ministry. It is suggested that the charges and charges be made to the party due to the decision of the Fishing Office on the strain of the budget twice in both the 3 mg. 7. and 8th pars. The law, as 25th and 26th. The bill. In view of this, the greater part suggests that only general charges and lawsuits will be submitted by the Fisk Institute's decision on the strain of a budget of 8 par. The law, like 26. The bill. At the same time, the wording of the law will be changed, replacing the accuser with the word "partner, " in line with the change in bringing down the aforementioned ruling committee. In the case of the case, it was noted that by dismissing the law on making a payment of gold fines for trespassing, No. 4/1924, parking ticket 1st. 10th par. song about whaling, No. 26/149, which refers to the above layer, fall down. So the majority suggest that the fall from removing law No. 4/1924 at this time. Finally, the majority suggest minor adjustments to correct and correct. These changes are not meant to have material influence. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by a change found in the committee opinion. Here on this document is a technical implementation of the proposed changes and I do not allow all of them to be read. Hv. Friðbertsson However, under the opinion of the fourth mg, he was absent from the case. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Other than that, sign this committee's opinion of why. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, chairman of the Committee, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffnsdóttir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, who was absent from the case, Ísleifsson Icefjörður Brynjólfsdóttir Brjörnsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and who is here to deliver the case, Ásmundur Friðriksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u137	Mr. President. I'm not gonna have this anything particularly far. I just wanted to come up here to bring the attention of the United States of America to what turns to the laws to aim tickets for trespassing on gold crowns. This is a matter of low self - importance, and it may even be possible to rejoice that there are still laws based on golden crowns. No doubt, people thought that they were now responsible for putting these things out, for they may not be aware of what golden crowns are today, as noted in a good inquiry from the day. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson to the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers last week. However, the reason why I wanted to bring this matter to the attention is that it shows so clearly how important it is that a body of Congress is well aware of the issues that come to the council. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson told me that this could be a problem, for it so happens that the only law associated with these fine gold crowns is the penalty of whale hunting, so de facto says that a minister has proposed to eliminate guiltys from the barrakes of whale hunting, which is natural significance. I hope so, and I guess it was just a little out of order. It doesn't matter that I think it was very important that the committee followed this and received this information. I don't think it was, as indicated in the Committee's opinion, the Committee wants to eliminate this. And I'm just glad that the more part will suggest this. In fact, this is also an excellent reminder of the importance of the committees and of the well - being of the committee. I wish, Mr. President, perhaps first and foremost, come up here to bring it to its attention. It is hoped that this same appeal will move the United States to take action as well as to handle minor matters, but if too far, it is of immense importance. If this had been possible, e.g. we could have had a legal problem passing tickets for a whale fracture, which is, at least In my opinion and in the opinion of the Committee, it is not acceptable. Mr. President. I'm not gonna extend this. I'm just gonna make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u138	V.E.G. President. I'm here offering a commission on a bill to raise funds for 2020, as is the law of No. 36/2020, more part of the budget. There's a bill on the roof. 1488 and the opinion of the committee on deck. 1771. The members of the Department of Economic Affairs met the committee and presented the bill, as well as presented representatives from the Ministry for expeditation and the debt of state funds this year and the next year. The committee was contacted by a representative of the Department of Social Services and some representative of the Department of Professional Railroad and Neomechanism. Then the Committee met with representatives of the Government Reconnaissance Report on the part-time work process involved in the subject of the bill. At that time, the Commission met with communications from the Allied European Union, the Association of Industrial Society, the Health Services Association of Iceland, the Union of Icelandic Filmmakers and the Industrial Association. The representatives of the Department of Transport and Division came to the Committee as well as to a representative of Iceland's Bavors Associations. This is a third bill for financial support of the current year, and it is a unique example of the unprecedented situation that exists, and it is determined to act quickly. We have briefly discussed, passed through the council, and agreed with a number of measures that in many cases require additional expenses and, in some cases, permission for ministers to take various measures, such as 5 and 6. The path to the program "smb4k_umount" This bill, as in the first two budget-fixed primes, suggests mainly that there will be additional budgets for government decision-making and temporary measures to address the economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. I think it may be claimed, more dignified President, that this year it is not the last financial bill. But there is time, and we look ahead. It is not long before we take up the subject and work on a revised government policy, a national budget for the next five years, and a financial bill for 2021. However, there is at least one budget needed, and there can be expected to be money on account of increasing unemployment and other pandemic costs to the extent that does not fit within the general reserve. Total, except for suggestions on increased budgets of less than 65.2 billion. The highest budgets have to do with labour policy. On one hand, there are 34 billion taps. prolongation of the partial improvement pathway, i.e. the pay of unemployment improvements in addition to loss of employment proportion. The decrease in employment rate is discussed in a specific bill on deck. 1128 and the extension of the partial improvement process. 1427. However, the number is 27 billion. due to the payment of part of the pay at the deadline, it is specifically discussed in the regular bill. 1424. In addition to the two labour market strategies, a third rate is set for more than 2 billion dollars. Because of reimbursement to filmmaking in Iceland. Fourth, 2 billion bucks. Remuneration to persons who were under aseptic conditions during the pandemic is discussed in a special bill on the screen. 1131. Then a minister is authorized to contribute up to 650 million. K. A structure in Kora ◯ sceptre and innovation fund; it is covered in a special bill on the screen. 1219 and up to 500 million. K. to the innovation fund of employment because of the hosting of the special interface to the sceptre companies that have been exposed to temporary setbacks due to the pandemic. This is discussed in a special bill on the screen. 1490. A respectable president. It may at times be forgotten that there have been no arrangements for any changes in current financial laws and that are actually uncut, but budgets of the year 2020, with a total of 1,004 billion dollars. We've increased the budgets of two budgets, and including this bill, they've increased a total of 103 billion, or about 10% from current budgets, and study total 1,107.5 billion dollars. The committee received a special presentation on the report of a local accountant on the part - time work route. Then the Commission received a presentation on the sets that is being carried out in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs on the left and on the state funds of the bill and the measures we've discussed in the previous budgets, as well as the other measures on the income side, which have been discussed in other committees and on other prime panels. When the effects of increasing unemployment and the lower tax system we call automatic fluctuation are added, the rate is about 250 billion. Less money than estimated to be in budgets and $110 billion. ... turnup next year. In the years that followed, it is important that financial arrangements be taken to establish the government's financial resources through a sustainable process while maintaining the quality of the system and the sharing. State funds are low, as a proportion of GDP compared with most other countries. So we are taking the lead in financing on borrowing, and the government fund stands strong in this regard and should be able to take time, as soon as we protect our well - being, to regain balance. The majority of this calls attention to the fact that almost all the changes proposed in the bill relate to other matters of the council, where material discussions have taken place. This is true in regard to the donation of partial reforms, the payment of deadlines, the payment of biodiversaries, and the stock supply to Koria of sceptres and innovations as well as the New World Translation Fund, the so-called Sturdy Crea. Only 2.1 billion U.S. is suggested to meet the increased levels of reimbursement for film making in Iceland, not to be found in a special bill. Remuneration rates are based on 25% of the production costs and the views were shown by sources to increase the proportion of them to support the competitive status of the article. The majority points out the need for a complete review of the law, such as has been reported in a report by the Government Review of the Reimbursement System, as well as in this case to reimburse the reimbursement rate. A total of 2,120 million suggestions are made. K. supplementary access to this team, which will meet all of you when administering an invitation. The bill suggests that up to 650 million are permitted. K. A lay-up in Kora ◯ sceptre and innovation fund. The fund is discussed in a special bill that covers the role of the fund and the implementation of its investments. The bill is based on suggestions that have been made in recent years, including the following: in a new creation policy published last year. There is also a suggestion to contribute up to 500 million. K. in the New World Fund of employment, which is the task of investing in wands and innovation companies. The plan is to make use of the provisions to provide the cross-cutter loans for the sceptre companies, against investing to the relevant enterprise. This plan goes by the name of Sturdy Victoria. This involves further implementation of 1,150 billion. K. Agency adopted in previous financial contributions to promote the growth and competitiveness of Icelandic employment and contribute to the active funding environment for the sceptical and innovation enterprises. Preparation for support-Create is already in cooperation with the New World Fund of employment and the possibility of the operation for the summer. The majority of these measures are very important to control the economic contractions and to contribute to the progress of up to 700 million. K. However, funding is dependent on the demand, and payments for the biodiversity fund will be in line with demand and approved loans each time up to 700 million. K. Maximum. I'd like to state this here, a respectable president, that meeting this in the upper bounds was any satisfaction of the committee. According to one estimate, there are between 5,500,700 million and 500 million cost requests. This subject was given a special bill, and it was discussed at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee. I would also say that the wishes of the committees were there to make sure that the resources would be successful, that the situation would not come up with the budget, and that the funds would then be shredded to smaller doses if more needed. For the committee, an enterprise's organisation in welfare services introduced its subject on the cost of Covid actions. The elderly are one of the most vulnerable groups of people to the serious consequences of Covid's disease. Nurses were given instructions on how to protect their household and take extensive measures. The actions yielded significant results. Actions and the responsibility of the homes were carried out. The organization has analysed the costs and scope of the operation. The majority depends on the success of the fight against Covid. The health cost of the Covid procedure will be considered in the fall raise. The majority suggest that in preparing a bill for a budget, a fall will be seen on a nursing home in the current year. It will be considered if there is any basis for meeting the nursing homes with increased funding for a pandemic crown virus. As a guide to a job - road committee that we set up earlier today, a respectable president, is the bill for a new fund, a travel guarantee fund. The sea is aimed at dealing temporarily with the negative effects of the Korean virus epidemic on the operations of a organisation or a small sale, thus ensuring consumer interests. The main focus of the bill on reimbursement for tourism, to be implemented from March 12 through June 30, 2020, which was canceled due to unusual and manageable conditions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. That's how the bill was introduced, but I think it's suggested that it be extended for at least one month. If visitors have not been reimbursed by the managers or inflators, they can direct the demand for a travel agency to reimburse the fees they have the right to reimburse them according to the legal requirements. For example, those who have reimbursed tourists on a package trip may direct the demand for a travel agency to reimburse them. A travel agency will take care of the fund and decide whether or not it is necessary to hire a tourist or a manager or a small dealer from the fund according to its requirement. A travel agency is not bound by a travel agency or by a steward or a small dealer's decision to pay from the fund to him. If a decision is made to reimburse a traveler on the basis of his requirement, the fund will set up against the fund's fee for the manager or a small sale, which is equal to the amount paid by the fund. The planning or reimbursement of funds is suggested in up to six years, and the requirement for growth should be applied based on market leaders. The requirements for reimbursement are further developed in a special bill. The rest of the part suggests a change to 5. Credits on borrowing and 6th degree. with special authority, in order to authorize a government fund to finance travel responsibilities and to allow the fund to pay tourists demand and, in turn, to collect loans from an orderly or retail package. Now, a respectable president, it is a fairly small estimate of what it takes to make a lot of money. I believe the committee does not have to react if the period will be extended under the serious conditions of tourism. If we go back year by year, when the airline business stopped here and it went bankrupt, we could call it a problem in the package pass, where many travelers found themselves in trouble. So I think this serious situation was unavoidable, as is being done here. The position of fur farmers was discussed in the Committee. Last October, a team of workers reported a report on the analyses of future prospects in the mobilization of transport and rural development. That's where even the two of them come from. to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases by fully utilising raw materials otherwise required. This year a pandemic of crown virus has affected this industry to the point that there has been a total loss of income where handouts have been delayed. Therefore, direct the more part to an appropriate plan to complete the implementation of the individual report this year. A recent review of the Agency's impact on the downturn of tourism in the national sector aims to draw up different rural positions due to contracting for tourism. A number of rural areas have been exposed to a major drop in income because of contracting for tourism. In a budget approved in May, 250 million were provided. K. The contribution to the Southern government and the Ministry leads to a plan of action for the use of the funds. The six rural societies that appear in this bill are Skulls, Horni's Club, Thermal Scrotum, Moydal Wrecks, the Ranger Council of the East and the Blue Forest, and are marked by the fact that the ploughs of the sea are particularly difficult for them. The task force of unit management is to evaluate the status of the local community rather and overall and potential resources. Suggested suggestions are proposed in July. It will be better to determine whether further support is needed for employment and community because of these timely circumstances and what measures would be appropriate in this regard. The rest of it suggests a total of 150 million. K. contributes to the six above rural society. There is also a suggestion for a 5. The budget for 2020 adds up to a new team, 8 counts, of financial and economic sources, on behalf of the state's funds, to authorize the travel responsibilities provided by a travel agency, to provide requirements for reimburseing packages up to 4,500 million. K. It's a bit bedy and in a space of space, so I think, in spite of what I think, that standing to extend this period does not necessarily require additional permission to end in the connection of the requirement for managers or small sales. Then a suggestion is also made for 6. The budget for 2020 adds up to 7,36, which provides financial and economic ministers with access to up to 4,500 million. K. a contribution to the travel guarantee fund. At the same time, the change in 7.35 in the bill is proposed that up to 700 billion will be provided. K. a contribution to the New Creation Fund of industry instead of 500 million. K. a donation, expected, should be in accordance with demand and agreed loans to the maximum. These adjustments are found in special council documents that I'm not going to do any further because they are being explained here by the committee and my story. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Jón Valdimarsson. A senator and an officer on the committee agree with this in advance and others in advance. Councilmen who considered the greater portion of literature are Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Páll Magnússon, and Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u139	A respectable president. The year is now half past the end of the year, and it has not yet been set for the year 2019. It is considered only a higher proportion of the overall effect on the income side and the remuneration gate and potential angle next year and this year. But I wondered where, when, and how, because a financial committee has really not received an overview of developments, the effects of individual action, and so forth. I wondered, " Is it perhaps the right time to make 70 billion decisions in this financial aid to know where we really are? ' What's the plan? What's the plan out of this, out of the hole? When I'm convinced that state funds are so successful, debts are low in terms of GDP, etc., I'll always look at the transport program we're doing here, which says there's an investment need in the entrances of 400 billion. It's also a debt. It is not calculated in the same way, but it is still just as much a debt for it, because of failure in recent years and the lack of benefits there and the increase in maintenance costs and the like. The cost of maintenance is interest in that debt. I wondered if it's not time for us to get a real statement about the situation as it is today and how we expect it to develop in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u140	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a very good question, the Björn of Gunnar's Gunnarsson. That's the big question, of course. I would say that similar to the rest of the world, we first tried when it came to keeping an eye on others. We did not have much work to do, and we could not help but observe what others were doing. We did our job. The priority was the disease prevention. From that point on, we soon take the part-change route, the pay for an infection. Then we're agreeing to the budget here. We try to arrange special services where companies need to be sheltered, so we are paying for reports. Then there are a number of other actions that may have long - term effects, as we can see in this financial bill, which is just created. The first financial bill was very investible. It was an investment campaign to further construction, to deal with the job situation. Here the response was very rapid, much like what was done elsewhere. I can take the North countries for example. The key point here is, as I mentioned in the history, that we were allowed to see the stage shots the Ministry has been doing, and these are more and less stage shots that have been appearing at the Federal Bank and the World Bank. Then there's nothing too far away that we might be starting to look into something that could almost be called predictions. [[The president calls.]] I'll continue this answer in a later answer, for I haven't quite answered a good question yet. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u141	A respectable president. We saw this, and we received financial advice on a visit that included measures of financial resources in many parts of the world, although the arrangement here is a little different, since the financial Council is not as important as in many other countries. In many other places, though, financial or financial advisers were a real - time movie analysis or a real - time stand on the course of evolution, as it was at one time. We have received information on the situation in a very fragile and very inaccurate position, in reality, over different lawsuits. We're seeing now, for example. that the applications for the University of Iceland, which has over 13,000 students, are 12,000. What will that mean for future budgets in the fall? It's support loans and bridge loans that don't go to jail. That's the cut-offs that far exceeded the schedules under the bill submitted at the General Assembly. All of this goes together. Yes, we are doing things similar to the nations around us, but we are copying them a little, without necessarily knowing the results they will produce, the problems they are facing. We are simply doing what others are doing without really having enough information about what the results of the money we are putting into it. We are not allowed to know in advance, and then all of this costs much more than was expected. It's in a situation like this: Would you be able to get more information?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u142	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for saying this because it is very important to know that, of course, we were not taking these actions because others took such action. We took certain measures to protect jobs, protect the economy of homes and businesses. Today, information flow has become so clear that it is possible at the same time to observe what others are doing and how they do it, and that is certainly improving. I agree with what you've been looking at in these reports to form from OECD, which has been almost by season reporting and assessments of the activities of the OECD countries and effects. It is very important that we maintain such information flows, transparency, and season monitoring of all actions, the extent and extent of which they will be returned. I felt that a Kingdom accountant's report on the part-change process was an example, and I think we can do that. The health - care costs have been very well maintained. We came into contact with the committee's opinion that we received a company's organization on welfare services, and it's only fair that they did a great deal of good in preventing them. Regarding students, as it turns out, there's a lot of pressure at school, both high school and university, and high school. The Minister of Education and Culture has appeared publicly, saying, "We'll take all the students, and we'll finance it. I can only agree with the highest. Ministers that we are to do so because, of course, in these circumstances it is very important that people can use their time to educate themselves if they do not have a job or are willing to do more work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to offer these options.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u143	Mr. President. Why does it want to be? Don't you think a senator is going to raise the reimbursement rate because of the production of films and TVs in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u144	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the question. However, we discussed this and found visitors to see us about it. It's 25% today, and we called for information on how the ratio was in other parts of the world. However, there has been a plan to re-evaluate the entire network, and there is a state accountant report, and it was our estimate that there would be some overall need for a reimbursement, both the reimbursement rate and the system on reimbursement. Hence, the conclusion was that this committee did not suggest an increase in the proportion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u145	Mr. President. I think the committee, the majority of the council, is here to make a mistake. This is a habitual opportunity, as shown by the council, to create jobs and to create activities. Really, it's one line of pens. With one pen rod, we can raise the reimbursement rate from 25 to 35%. For that summer, this would have a lot of material significance. Now we're on the last day of the council, and this is our last chance. What a disappointment I have seen before! The members of the greater body speak of the need to promote filmmaking, and we can do so now. We can call for projects that want to come into the country, but the remuneration rate is in them. We have seen other nations taking temporary steps in this regard. There is great competition for calling on these assignments. It's such an idea of so much a -win-win-student, to raise the remuneration rate. Here's a list, here's a job, here's what we'll do, and we'll be doing it in the area that's going to be in big trouble, in the tourism business. This calls for activity in the country. This calls for use in hotels, food demand, guidance, recreation, and transport. All this would be so good for now, for this summer. Netflix published a specific declaration that Iceland was one of the few catch areas that could be used to attack now. You can imagine the demand that will follow a year after new TV and film programs. The market is hungry for material. That is why I feel so sad that the other part doesn't exist to get jobs for the country that can be done with a single pencil. In itself, there will not be a dollar out of the box until there are a lot more dollars in it. I have similared the film industry to the nearest Eyjafjölóku. Just as Eyjafjöll did, we need to make future tourists. It would have been such a great opportunity for us to bet on the movie and TV. This is a sector that doesn't ask much, but it's a sector that actually makes money. [[The president calls.]] Hence, it is a real disappointment that the more part has not taken advantage of this opportunity and has been able to raise the payment rate in order to create activities, and taxes that follow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u146	V.E.G. President. Go on with the reimbursement rate. I think it's all that's wrong. A senator later said that he could be reasoned and correct. But there is something else that happens when we're in such competition rather than in reimbursement. When it comes to reimbursement rates, we are not the favorite of all nations, and we have so many more and more to offer. We also need to consider this in the context of the current demand. It may be that filmmakers want to come to Iceland despite a 25% share, but not necessarily 35%. Of course, we should not give it up if we are strong in other matters of competition, our nature, our control, and other factors. So it's not just a reimbursement rate. However, based on the information we received, we are not the lowest of all nations and have blessedly increased this rate, I think it was 14% when we left for some year ago. We've increased, so we've been quite competitive. But I want to agree with what. A senator says that we should take advantage of all possible competitive elements, including the reimbursement rate, to be competitive in this, because just a summary of the Habitat shows us what the benefits are and can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u147	Mr. President. I'm not going to be too long. I may be starting to sound like an old record, but sometimes the best records are old. But I'm going to draw out a few things. I know we're tired after a long day, but I just want to say that we're talking about 65 billion bucks. extras and maybe a little talk will be needed on the part of us senators. But I won't be long forgotten, because many of these things you've heard very often. I hope someday I can reach your ears. We see that's a third of the budget. In fact, all these funds have been criticized by a lot of people, that they are not enough to cope with the problems of Icelandic homes and professional living. We're entering the deepest crisis for 100 years. We need to think big, we need to think bigger, we need to be radical, we need to be bold about making decisions. On the other hand, like I've criticized, I feel like a lack of idea for the government. We see that 75% of all the government's actions are actually taking two action. 75% for unemployment rates and, on the other hand, for subsidies on notice. This doesn't seem quite acceptable to me to face the current situation. Only 5% of the total surgery will undergo innovation. I hope I have held here inspired speeches that innovation is the magic word in a crisis. We need to do better, for example. In the film industry, such as in the case of technological development fund. I know something's been added, but that's not gonna work. We need to face this crisis with more ambition. I have also called for a special investment plan to be set up here. I happen to be in this council hall at the last collapse. A special green investment plan was set up to create jobs. I don't see the new jobs they're creating here. I know the government has been in a defensive and destructive struggle but that time is a little past. Now I want to see the vision. On what will we build the economy of the future? Unemployment has never been so high in Iceland's history. And it's going to rise by the autumn as predicted because we see little commercialism on the part of the State. I've been calling for a number of employment projects, both in the private sector and in the public. I've spoken to the government in such a harsh way. We need to create jobs, but the government must be properly applied. Another thing that I would like to flaunt in this brief speech is that we need to be especially careful how the tilt will be presented for the next winter and for the next year. It's heading for a great angle to the state's funds. In the final collapse, the so - called mixed way was by the government to meet the decline in income and inflation of expenses. Then efforts were made to protect the welfare and education systems as much as possible. And tax increases were made. This is a discussion we're going to take, but we need to protect the public system, defend the public service for those who rely on it, whether it's older citizens, disability, students, or children, etc. It is not true that these groups should carry the angle. It is not true that these groups are to be financed. I would like to reiterate that we too can take considerable time to reach this angle. Not as fast as last time. That's when we were in intensive care at the World Bank. There's nothing like that today. The debt the state's fund is taking on is mainly domestic debt. Let's spare these delicate groups instead of signing up the cold right men's ideology to reach the angle as soon as possible. We do not have to, and we are not to do so. But we need to take the matter of taxes. We need to find the wide sheets. The wide volumes are not found for students and young people, micropows, and older citizens. But the wide sheets can be found in many of the community, and we need to take up the resource budget, as I have repeatedly spoken about. I'm not going to spend many words criticizing my resignation. Our representative on the Economic and Business Committee did so when the case was settled by that committee. In order to bring it up, I have the greatest concern about unemployment. Unemployment is disastrous for the person who is going through it. It's a disaster for the economy. We have a huge waste of unemployment, and we have to work against it with all our power to do so. We need to create opportunities and jobs for ordinary people. I'm really worried about you by the fall. I don't see these new jobs coming into existence. The people who have lost their jobs, are working their resignations, or have income - related unemployment benefits that they have only three months in the fall, are falling on striped compensations of 290,000. per month. These are thousands of Icelandic families. I promise you, not one senator will trust to live at 290,000 bucks. per month. If so, why do we have that group do so? Why is there an proposal for the United States and others to raise unemployment improvements repeatedly here? These are our fellow citizens. Why are we willing to let the people we know, people who are part of our community, have to live at 290,000 bucks? a month? It doesn't work in one of the most expensive states on earth. This need to be added to the fact that one of the worst problems people can face is to face such loss of income and then to be unemployed for a long time. People have commitments, people have children, all kinds of expenses, and things that have to be done, but they have to make ends meet. We cannot invite the Israelites who are now out of work in the fall and have become unemployed. If we don't think we can afford it, we'll just find our income, and that's what we'll do with taxes. I will say without hesitation: If you don't trust to find your income in the box, we just have to find it, and that's what we're gonna do with taxes or resource costs. I'm not talking about taxing the middle-class and much less creditors. But there's a group of people who have a lot. Men have often heard me take this load; 1% of the richest Icelanders have more pure possessions than 80% of the population. So the wide sheets can be found in many places. It's a peculiar politics on the part of the government to lower the fishing fees by 50 percent, as has been done here in the season, if we just look at what they were at the beginning of the season and what they are now. I'm not gonna start arguing about what's a shrink and what's an increase. The numbers speak for themselves. Thus, in the Federal Deal, where the box has 1,000 billion, the table certainly stands for those who are now under pressure, this unemployed group who experience the challenges of being out - of - work. Then come the economic setbacks that are not acceptable to us. We are the tenth richest country in the world. There's plenty to go around if there's a political will for it. This is much less urgent in the left green, forward, and Independence groups. We can do better, and we will do better with this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u148	A respectable president. Not surprisingly, the government stresses saving corporate interests rather than sending a cliff line to poor people. Its course has never been different. This financial bill is largely about the government's urging employers to break up employment relationships with their employees. The methodology is different in which taxpayers are expected to pay for their employer's salary at a post notice. This results in an enormous increase in unemployment, which is certainly enough for, such as a whale. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson's speech rightly pointed out in his speech. Of course, governments must take responsibility for these unprecedented times, but the responsibility is also to reach out to those who are just as needed to help as the business in the country. It can be done in a number of ways, resulting in a lot of improvement and increased safety to those who become most aggressive of the economic events caused by Covid-19. Once again, the government ignores support for the community group that deliberate, dignified president, who is deliberately maintained in poverty and has been doing so for decades. Thus, less 2 contributes to four changes in the bill all in favor of underpayers, charity companies, and mental health. These proposals do not require high-priced funds from the state fund with regard to all the enormous funds used for the rescue operations of the Covid-19 pandemic, e.g. in this bonus, which is nearly 70,000 million. K., up to 70 billion bucks. 2 smaller things only ask for more than 1.5% of that amount to help a very large number of people who really need help. It should not be a real problem for our good government to accept these adjustments in behalf of those most in need of its help. The senator standing here would certainly not be surprised if there was little help from that source. The total cost for the suggestions of less than 2 smaller items is now around 1.1 billion, $1,150 billion. K. First, it's one payment for a pensioner who receives under 300,000 dollars. per month. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson mentioned this when everyone returns to his time of professional unemployment and receives only about 290,000 dollars. per month. Who can live by it, a respectable president? In fact, a person who draws life out of it really has nothing but to try to create life, nothing else. For he can't give himself anything. Nothing at all, either himself or his children. That's exactly what we're facing right now. The economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic are not different from those of older people. The crown has fallen by 17% since its annual events, and prices continue to rise accordingly. The impact on income shortages is dissatisfaction, since there is no room for extra expenses, absolutely nothing. There is no need to remind that these community groups are taxing for very little and have been for years. We're not going to hand them a proper cliff line, and I'm not even talking about a proper cliff line. It's not even possible to ask for it. You always ask for the minimum, hoping that it will be there somewhere. To compensate for the difficulties laid down by the Covid-19 pandemic, which is less than 300,000 dollars. This month from social security, 2 thousand will be reduced. remuneration, a reimbursement that comes from a insurance agency to the longest terms and earns the low income that they do not reach that 300,000 dollars. per month. 2nd smaller things wish to be in accordance with the timetable of 2020. Exactly this factor is, listen up, a respectable president, the most expensive mail of my makings and making of some 850 million. K. It embraces up to 8,500 individuals. There's a lot less honored president, and I'm speaking from experience. I guess it's safe to say. Since then, we've been hearing about the problem that's been at BUGL, the Children's Children's Hospital. Imagine that we are known for the fact that children who are spiritually ill are on a waiting list for medical help and emergency treatment. At the same time as the highest. Economic and economic ministers have repeatedly wondered about the growth of disability, however, the government does not do anything to reduce the estimated increase, but it maintains a growing microplicity system. Part 2 specifically points to a group of children who are spiritually and socially troubled but who are not helped properly. These children spend dozens of courses waiting for professional treatment. It is essential that the treatment be given for all children with psychiatric disorders. It is important that those requiring such measures do not get on the waiting list after appropriate treatment. It's about getting them children out of life, doing everything they can to keep them from going into disability for life. It is therefore essential that the treatment of paediatric patients with psychiatric disorders be intensified immediately. Therefore, a 2 - smaller fraction suggests that contributions to the Children and Youth Department of the Land Hospital will be increased by 100 billion. K. These children are also through Covid. We've heard the claims of both police and social authorities that in the Covid epidemic, when everything was up here and we didn't have enough homes, either in self-organized tracts to protect ourselves or in the company or actually to be put there, not only so much sales of alcohol but also, unfortunately, increased domestic violence. Who are primarily victims of domestic violence? They are usually the lesser, and they are usually children. Although it's all about politics, about more parts and smaller parts, about government and government opposition - and when it is divided into hundreds of billions of dollars, as this year will be, an estimated 300 billion are going for rescue operations and, as is the case at the highest level. Secretary of finance, perhaps about 200 a year next year, may be about 500 billion. between 2020 and 2021 - I can't understand the politics that can't accept what we're talking about, 100 million. K. to help children deal with a mental disorder, to take them off a waiting list, to try to stop them from going into disability, to get them into life. It's totally beyond me. Then there is the need for total emergency support to the U.S.A. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the U.S.A.'s work has been through a very high financial crisis. The financial resources of the organization have not been satisfied with the treatment prevention measures taken because of the epidemic. The consequences are serious for all those alcoholics who need help. The situation is serious, as has been in recent years, that Viking treatment homes will be closed in July. The Viking treatment home has had to be shut down because of a lack of money, which has, in fact, been more severe than ever now, when there have never been more people who need help, never. We had a meeting curfew. We had many limitations, so after being treated, after receiving help, and after going to the Vikings, those in need of treatment were unable to attend a meeting. They could not use the coercion they were actually recommended and suggested, and they were willing to use to try to keep away from drugs and Bakkus. We can help these people. We can do so much more. All you need is a will. It is dangerous to assume that the hospital Vogur is a detoxification center and the first step in a patient's recovery process, the other sort of structure and treatment, is in Viking. Hence, it is extremely sad to know that there are now a lot of sick people in the hospital of Vogi, many for the first time, which would have been necessary to enter the Viking for six weeks, but Vika was closed on June 16. Hence, it must be ironic on the part of the government not to get into this serious situation with increased financial gains during these difficult times and at the same time prevent a sick person from being denied a cure. On the first raise we agreed on, I remember May 11 of that. was 30 million. K. Provided for U.S.A. activities. This was a factor in trying to meet the fact that they could not have set off with the elf sale just because of the restraining order and the meeting ceremony. There was no door - to - door walk. The good news was that not long ago, just a few days ago, because I was always arguing and arguing about it on a financial committee, that they had already received that money, that they had paid off. But that is not true of 50 million who were supposed to go to the Vog, and we agreed on to the 2018 budget, and I kept checking around all year last year. It was a clear will of the Lawgiver, clear will. I think we've all agreed on that, never this problem, to be supportive of U.S.A. We knew that up to 800 patients were waiting in the hospital. Our willingness, both a financial committee and a General, was to try to cut down a waiting list and try to get people to help in the first place. Yet, the third is still unsupervised. I'm completely out of understanding this kind of work. I can't figure it out. We're the funds, we give green light to something, we want to help, we want to do something useful. And then this is how it happens. A small share of 2.mes suggest that the budget will be funded for the UN rehabilitation services immediately increased by 100 million. Aside from all agreements at Iceland's Medical Insurance, there's nothing else and nothing else to do with the Covid-19 pandemic. A fourth suggestion for a smaller portion of the book focuses on support of a charity that handles the food distribution. Already, Iceland's unemployment has reached a historic peak in republictime and even further. How important it must be, then, to ensure the basic needs of people who live in poverty! No one is to starve despite the unprecedented condition of our nation, our rich nation. Thus, 2 smaller items suggest that the relief agencies that have truly been involved in feeding poor families, such as Iceland's Family Help, Affliction Committee, and others, are immediately assigned to a total of 100 million. K. to the exchange. A financial committee had also agreed that 25 million people are being strengthened by a relief organization that fed hungry people. This was set at the same time that 30 million people were supposed to go to the U.S.A. It was set on May 11. I don't know anyone who's had one dollar of that. But I know there are guys in this country. I know three minutes, or two, or whatever they are, are in trouble because they haven't been able to sell up their furs. And it's linked to Covid, which is surprising that the auction also didn't take place in December of last year, so maybe now there's a lower demand. It is 80 million this year, and 80 million are due in it next year. 160 million people are required to help smaller towns feed their minks. 2, smaller portions ask about 100 million to feed poor children and poor Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson and president of the budget board for history. The central category has supported most of the economic proposals of the government in order to minimize the damage the virus epidemic has caused. Similarly, the government has rejected all the proposals of the Central Party and the opposition. We have been able to offer a number of practical suggestions, e.g. to meet older citizens in this epidemic. All the suggestions have been taken, as I said, and we feel it is pointless to return such suggestions. I'm sorry, nice words to talk about are show-offs. This budget, which is for discussion, funding, is a third bill of the government for the virus epidemic. It is suggested that a total of over 65 billion be paid. extra deposit, a lot of money, due mainly to four factors, i.e. extensions of unemployment losses, as well as loss of employment rate, pay cost of notice, pay pay to persons who suffer from stress and increased reimbursement for film making. The Central Party supports the plans for increased support for innovation and research and emphasizes the goal of increasing national activities. The bill is authorized for Ministers to provide up to 650 million. K. a contribution to the newly formed fund to Korea and up to 500 million. K. contributes to the innovation fund of employment because of the hosting of the special tournament to the sceptre companies, which have been exposed to temporary setbacks due to the retroviral crisis. The big case, Mr. President is growing. Unemployment is extremely difficult for those who suffer, and financial insecurity causes stress and various other problems, especially spiritual problems, for those who suffer the effects of many families. It is necessary to respond with all available measures and to work against unemployment at a government priority. It is necessary in our opinion to consider increases and increases in rights to income-related unemployment insurance and to improve basics. This would be the forwardness of this large non - professional group, and it is indeed large and unprecedented, in all respects more loyal and materialistic, and less stress caused by unemployment. People would be better equipped to cope with the job search, to make decisions about study, or to make future livelihoods in these difficult uncertainty times. If the bill were to be accepted, the government's civilian expenses for the three budgets will increase by over 103 billion dollars. as mentioned. Clearly, government funds will be thrown out in great numbers, and it is important that the government's actions contribute to an increase in economic activity and not further reducing them. But the problem is big, and it will even increase during the autumn months. Especially is it important to trust the financial resources of rural society even more because they have certainly not been part of the Korean epidemic. It is clear that in the autumn months, they will have to cope with financial support to those who have lost their jobs. And I'm going to get a little closer to that. We welcome this correction for filmmaking, and we hope it will increase the number of jobs. Many adjustments in the majority of the objects are considered positive. I just want to hang out with the 150 million. K. who are going to face the six bad communities. Of course, we're happy about it, but I'm afraid this strategy must be more extensive and reachable to more rural communities. The wealth of congregations has been affected by poor income. It affects rural society, and it needs to be met in some way. Thus, there is more than one area in which rural society suffers from loss of income. It is the lack of appreciation based on the recent National Standards of Iceland that predicts that unemployment will be significant in the next two years. The prospects are similar to the situation in 2009,2011. This recent national projection suggests that unemployment will generally be 8.2% in 2020, with the forecast of the largest unemployment ever observed within a year of the republic's history. The problem is enormous, and governments have introduced resources to cope with increasing employment prospects. Sadly, the problem of this action has been that it has been late and badly implemented, and some have not yet been implemented. At that time, a precious time of loss and value has been lost and must be said as it is, Mr. President, that it must be replaced. It is clear that this government, the government, does not plan these measures properly at my judgment. I mention the bridge loans, the support loans, for example. This is an enormously important operation, such as the bridge loans, which were introduced as one of the major operations and are just to get to work here and now, and a very few loans have been granted. This has been discussed. Similarly, the support loan, which many companies are waiting for, can determine whether companies can simply continue their business, will not be able to cope with any available resources at this time. This is most unfortunate, Mr. President, and must say as far as it is, it means little to perform such operations and introduce them at a press conference, and then nothing happens in the languages weeks and months, and while the companies bleed out. I want to come back to my rural society only, especially because it has been shown that the rural communities have had little consultation on these measures. They've had a huge drop in income and an increase in income, and specific measures are needed for the rurals, that's perfectly clear. What is being brought up here is by no means sufficient for our judgment. Large and stop rural communities, such as the city of Reykjavík, have established a budgetary committee and declared the need to strengthen their communities with unrequited financial support. When Reykjavíkurburg is beginning to ask for official financial support, we all see what the situation is, and we realize that it must be met by every member of the country in this respect and that the European Union has decided in that case. I said the income drop of an equation fund, but it's important to deal with it. We must not forget that 80% of the country's side is pay. Unemployment, including in Reykjavík, is high, and touches a large number of people, and it is clear that they need financial help at hand. It is a large group of people who are qualified for unemployment. The lack of employment for the virus epidemic has to be thought of by those who lost their job for the virus epidemic, so the problem is widespread. Of course, the emphasis on innovation in these measures is important, innovation creates jobs and valuables, but we believe it is effective and must respond even more. I'm not going to extend this, Mr. President, but I have to say, the situation is sadly in order to realize that there must be an even greater reaction. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson and the chairman of the budget board have proclaimed here that there will be another increase in budget in the autumn months and will be there. Look to the nurses. I think it'll be there to look to the locals too. How important that is! You can't lose sight of this project. Clearly, the problem is big, and when it comes to business matters, it grows. We simply feel that the government is sadly not awake enough to do so, and even unsatisfactory when it comes to increasing the number of jobs. I'd like to at the end mention some adjustments made by the Central Party on this raise. As I mentioned earlier, we have offered a number of suggestions to meet the challenges we face. Sadly, all of them have been dropped, and we feel that moving them back again is pointless, as it were. in the case of correction to older citizens, who are extremely urgent and essential that that that group not be left out. The adjustment that we now make turns to 235 million. K. Iceland's tournament to the Monument Fund of the Atlantic Community. This is the first phase of a five - year projection program, with the first contribution of Iceland to this period of 1 billion and 175 million. K. The amount of funds is primarily designed for the enlargement of the Sacred Sea. This is an important task taken by the secretary of state, but the government has not agreed, and the minister of foreign affairs has been restored, which is extremely sad because this project has to do with national security policy. The Foreign Minister has said that this harmonizes with national security policy, so we feel that by passing on a mission proposed by the minister of foreign law, the government is actually going against national security. Therefore, we make these important adjustments, to meet our chief national security policy and our commitments to our defense work. In addition, the time point is good because of the high unemployment rate in Southnes, and this is a tournament at NATO, which is then up to 14 billion U.S., revealed by the minister of state. We're moving to the Middle East on this budget. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to say that the Central Party has offered its assistance through all of these funds, offered proposals, and, unfortunately, spoke for the faint ears of the government. We have the counsel to advertise the suggestions in the media so that we have all been willing to face the challenges we face. Unfortunately, the government has not shown this interest. She has offered suggestions that she has thereafter made that show that it does not matter where the suggestions come from, which is unfortunate because we are all in this struggle and the challenges we face to overcome them. Mr. President. In the end, I have to say that I feel that I lack in this financial bill to respond to the tremendous unemployment we face. That's where I feel that the government is out of control. The big project is to expand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u150	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk and for the discussion, Birgir's Þórarinsson's address on the budget bill. I have much to agree with, and the final statement is that the big job now and ahead is to face unemployment, create jobs, and prevent this from becoming a permanent unemployment. Hv. A member of the United States noted that there had been a variety of operations in this regard, and this led to two resources, a supportive loan, and a mortgage. I'd like to mean that we have responded quickly and with very wide variety of measures that have been very successful; deadlines, lockbacks, share benefits, translucency, academic and professional resources, a variety of social benefits to the last mental health aid, pay and resources to protect jobs and jobs. Support loans and the mortgage are a very important factor in helping companies through these bad times. I agree with that. A senator's waiting for them is not desirable, and this is unfortunate, especially to support loans. I'd like to now mean, with the loans, that as they were built up by their state responsibility, all other resources should be sought before turning to the bridges. I want to say that this too can be a positive message. I'm going to go back to my supportive loans, which was the other joint. A senator mentioned in his talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u151	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the opposition and reviewing the actions the government has proposed in three financial contributions. Here's a review of the last bill for at least ... butwhat. A senator announced additional operations during the autumn months. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, we in the Middle Order have supported these measures and have applied ourselves to offer suggestions so that by supporting these actions, I believe they are positive and fall to minimise the damage we are facing. But I criticize it, and I know that why. A senator agrees with me on the subject, that important measures, such as the support loans, especially the support loans, have only come very late. There is no meaningful explanation in my opinion. These measures are extremely important, especially for smaller and medium-sized enterprises, since each day is very difficult to achieve when there is no income and commitment. I know that financial institutions have held on to themselves and have refused to provide e.g. head loans to these companies so that they can live up to their commitments. Simply put, the answer is that there are waiting for support loans. So here's a problem that needs to be solved. This has led to the failure of companies to deposit their lascivious bills in these last years because they have not been able to wait. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator agrees with me that at this point it must be improved and immediately explained why this has been so slow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u152	V.E.G. President. Yeah, to the back loans. I agree with what. It is important that the loans of support, as they were intended, be returned. They did not then, and when we agreed, it was simply because we were too rigid. As soon as we want to be careful to make sure that the conditions are so useful to those in need, there is always the danger that the conditions will be too rigid. In this case it was a business, a number of companies, especially a travel service, which needed to be held. When they suffer a massive loss of income, they save themselves with a review of their business banks. We now arranged for knots so that we could not borrow support loans to pay off other loans. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Economic and Business Committee is reacting to this, so at the time of overweight, it was certainly to survive through it, creating a flexibility to meet the problems raised. He didn't see us coming, and he was just too stiff on his terms, and that's too bad. But we're going to fail here. We had that discussion earlier today. A respectable president. And then I can totally agree with that with what. A senator is unable to complain that we have not been able to cooperate with any action that was under attack and has been attacked by a smaller section, although the lesser part complains that the greater part has not approved all the co-programming laws that have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u153	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator is very positive that this is being handled by the overlaying process, that companies will be authorized to pay it up with support loans. It was just a simple mistake not to have predicted it in the beginning. There are a lot of companies in that position, that they have an overwhelm to cover themselves over a few weeks in order to live up to their commitments in a complete payoff. The requirements here were just too stiff, they're right next door. Senator. And you might ask, " Shouldn't this process have been realized when it was being negotiated with financial institutions, both on the loans and on the welfare loans, that they should have realized right away that this was just too far? ' I have to say, it took way too long for the Secret Bank to negotiate these loans, and there should have been warning signs, that there was something in this process that wasn't returning, and therefore should be treated quickly and favorably, because at this time, something of value and of time should be lost. There is something very bad about this year's trip when people and businesses rely on government officials to face these unpredictable challenges. This slow process, some blundering in this process, makes it impossible for these measures to go on fast and fast enough. There's a basic element in this. It's not that we have some good press conferences here, introduce these options, and everything looks good, but then, when it comes to the project, this hope is lost, which then leads to disaster.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u154	Mr. President. We finally have some coverage on the budgets. I've thought about being very brief. This time I'm not going to make any changes in the case. We know what fate they're going to get. You know, there's a lot of good in these extras. We've been working on the projections and we'll continue to support them. Again, we don't think it's enough to do. On the other hand, I would especially like to point out that there are two suggestions in these funds that I believe are the least through us during our restoration. There is, on the one hand, an increase in contributions to the so-called Support Committee, about 200 million, but it was a good deal on the Committee, and thanks to that, both to the budget and to the Economic and Business Committee, and therefore to be welcomed. Then, of course, what appeared here in the sheepfold, although it was not for a material discussion, that now people have decided to take the so - called Sportsty Fund instead of the introductory way, which is the clear way to which it had been proposed and pointed long ago. I'm not gonna say anything, it's going to pass in the evening. There's a lot to say. A lot of that's what I've said before I'm gonna make this brief and just do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u155	A respectable president. This is where we vote to bring more resources to the Children's and Disturbance Department of the Land Hospital, BUGL. We're voting to meet our children who are being suspended for emotional support. We will vote by trying to prevent the growth of disability as high as possible. The minister of finance has been so eager to point out that too much has become too much. We're voting on a good thing. I challenge the Senate to show how he wants our children who are in the trouble they are in today and say yes, as I do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-129.u156	A respectable president. Here we continue to vote on whether we may be able to see a high level of 1.5% of the under 70 billion we're putting on rescue measures in this third budget. This is about a single-change operation for the poorest members of our community, those with social security only, and less than 300,000 dollars. per month. It's about helping people who are on a waiting list to get into the U.S.A., and it's about providing funds to increase assistance to the relief agencies and at the same time their ability to feed people who are hungry. That's what this is all about. I say yes.
