ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u1	Borist has received a letter from the transport and rural administration minister asking for every request in order to provide a written answer to a covering query. 734, for the safety of communications, from the Njáll of Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u2	The president wants to suggest that there are votes at the end of the discussion on the second part of the program, or later, in the meeting. Then the president also wishes to suggest that today's conference be interrupted at a meeting. Fifteen members of Parliament are asked to walk out at Generals Hospital where a shovel will be taken to the new branch building of the Algillis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u3	Mr. President. As many have observed, the British left the European Union this weekend, knowing that there is plenty to bite and burn in Britain. Since there is electricity all over the country and the trains are running, it was not the collapse that many thought would occur at that point. [[Up front.]] Some people are going to freak out in the audience. However, in preparation for this type of preparation, it came about here that those who led to the national pay for passage had been the most uncivilized cages and isolationists, while the good minds had sat at home and ironed their scarf. It is reasonable to say that this exit is the ultimate triumph of the public over the official authority, and then it makes sense that the British look north after cooperation and cooperation. It's a big deal that we Icelanders are ready for this mission, i.e. to deal with it, and to work with it, including to make two-way agreements with the British on business, etc. This exit will also have political influence in many parts of the world. In Iceland, there are e.g. two political groups that have long had one policy, a magnetic policy 130, Reykjavík/Brussels, and now suddenly these fine politicians look like military opposition in 2006 when the Army left the country. The purpose is gone. What do we do now? It will be very interesting to see if these two groups, with the only policy that Iceland would join this destructive coalition, will put themselves down soon thereafter with this joyous occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u4	A respectable president. The staff covering the tax environment of the P.R.P., which fell under the third sector recently returned a proposal to the government. It refers to a work that does not depend on the private sector or on the public sector, such as the activities of athletes, rescue teams, charities, and humanitarian organizations. The staff worked for financial and economic ministers and led Willum Þór Þórsson, head of Parliament, the job of the group. The service group stresses increased tax incentives to promote the activities of these individuals by extending the current motivation and legally establishing new ones. Some new references include incentives for individuals to support societies, financial support against the extended costs for maintenance or reforming workers under social services, and a breakdown in capital gain taxation to protect their profits solely for the public good. It will also emphasize the establishment of a public Good Association registry, as is suggested in a currently existing bill for the General Assembly, and changes in hereditary taxation, real estate tax, capital tax, stamp tax, income tax, and merit tax. The examples in neighboring lands are searched, and the suggestions of the group are apparently well - thought - out and careful. They will support the economic conditions of public goods and will bring work conditions closer to our neighboring countries. I have hopes that the government will abide by the proposals, and I stress that we will get prime answers to the council as soon as possible to ensure the necessary adjustment of the law in order to implement the proposal. Explanation of the work and motivation can surely encourage important activities, for the benefits of the third sector's work to the greater good can strengthen society and exert great influence on community development in small and large regions throughout the country. In the last few weeks, we have experienced just what is important to our community of public welfare organizations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u5	A respectable president. Next week, Féggi welcomes the 60th birthday of deaf people. The Society is a business organization that offers advice and opinions about Deaf people. Deaf people are a metal group, so they have to rely heavily on interpreters in their dealings with the community, where their language is not widely known in their environment. The conflict between deaf people is remarkable and amazing, and the struggle for their language has not been a shock - free struggle over the years. For decades sign language was banned, and it was not until 1980 that the ban was lifted. It was in 2011 that sign language became legal in this country as the first language of deaf, deaf, and deaf - blind people and those who have to rely on it for expression and communication. In so doing, governments committed themselves to caring for and supporting this. That was an important phase pass. Despite the reach of this stage, the battles have taken many forms. Although Icelandic Sign Language is an official language in this country, there is little or no instruction or teaching in the local schools about it. Little that is done to introduce and teach Icelandic sign language to students. I am convinced that the sign language would be more widely distributed and accepted if it was to be taught in the basic schools of the country. TV programs are rarely texted or interpreted, and those who do not live near the Daff community rarely recognize sign language. Hence, Deaf people depend on interpretation services in their everyday lives. A respectable president. A sign language is not a personal language to the deaf. It is the language of a large group and public case in this country and should, of course, be made higher than it is now. All public service should consider this matter further. I want to use this opportunity to bring the Society's deaf proselytism to celebrate these breakthroughs and to thank them for the fight for the rights of this metal group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u6	Mr. President. Sunday was a happy day for a small family in the West Side, the parents of a seven - year - old boy. They had waited between hope and fear for what would come to their end, whether they would be allowed to be in peace and quiet in Iceland, as they desired or turned to Pakistan the day after where the mother is really in danger of honor murder or severe persecution. The presence of the closer town in the western town that stretched so far was incredible. More than 19,000 signatures on people throughout the country in support of their families showed white that it is a universal willingness to be far more humanitarian when it comes to receiving children and families who look to us for international protection. Happily, several government ministers listened to the people's will in this case. As a successful solution was found in the small family situation, which also takes advantage of a few other families in a similar situation, there is no future solution to the handling of the laws of foreigners, to carry out, and to the duration of their treatment. To shorten the treatment period of a child's family from 18 months to 16 months is simply a patch. As noted yesterday, the presidents of all classes decided, except for the Independence Party over two years ago, that the change in foreigners and overall review of them would be a top priority for the end of elections, where children and people would be considered in a delicate position at that date - making job. In fact, it is discussed in the Mosaic Law. Why have we had to wait for a total of 26 months for the change in the alien law to change and that an overall review would guide the priorities of human kindness? While nothing has been a turning point toward a better and more humanitarian period in this category of languages here at the General Assembly, it has regularly taken place that we reimburse people in unannounced circumstances in Greece or practice dental work on the companyless children because we are so preoccupied with their age instead of welcoming them. While this is happening, ordinary people all over the country are taking a stand on the human touch as tragic matters arise that affect people. We are to listen when the Red Cross and UNICEF speak. We should listen when the common people speak, when the more and more people show that humanity must be in total priority in the treatment of foreigners, because communities are determined by the way they treat those who are to be remembered. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u7	V.E.G. President. Lately, television shows have been showing the history of sailing and the adventures of a fairy tale in the last century, the 60 - year history of that adventure in that place. The last of the series considered how the town would be reinvigorated after a very thin year in 1970. The importance of transport is clearly seen in this regard, with the gang walk that was opened in 1970 and then in 2010. So the town is back on the map as a suitable town with good tourism. In my mind, this is where good transportation can be pointed out mainly. Why am I talking about this? Yes, it is a road west, in Westland, the Forest Coast Road east of Stykkisolm, and into the Valley of Burd, which is in my mind sad not to be inside a transport plan, it was taken out of a transport program now the last time. The representatives of the Federal Association in the West, and the mayor of Stykkisolmi, came to a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee this morning to give the members of the Committee to do everything they can to get this road back into the transport program. This is a malar road where the incidence of accidents is very high and is a large bottleneck in transportation east of Stykisholm and into the Valley. Tourists go that way because their GPS is leading them this way, but there's too much accidents there. Heavy transport is too great, and the road just doesn't bring them up at all. So transportation is of utmost importance, so we must get this way in line with all other debasing roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u8	V.E.G. President. Today, the International Day for Cancer and Cancer Society has been introduced by that occasion in the past by a conscious awakening called I understand you. The idea is to highlight the importance of having good support when needed. Sadly, there are many in the community who have the experience of having been diagnosed with cancer and are therefore able to impart their experience and, more importantly, their understanding of what it is like to go through the experience of becoming diagnosed with cancer. Yesterday, during the council, a discussion was needed to transfer the screening for cancer screens from the cancer community into an overcrowded Land Hospital. There is a variety that few people understand, for the person who goes through such experiences, diagnosed with cancer, is at the same time a patient, and is also obliged to conduct his life as much as a healthy person. In order to follow such a path, it is important that those who have walked in that path have the least foundedization. I'm saying it's a big mistake to move screens from the cancer society that has the support network that needs around the country and that most people need. So I want to pray to the highest. A health minister to revise his mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u9	A respectable president. Today, my daughter's school echoed at my daughter's nursery this morning, at about noon, 3,500 preschoolers were sent home in Reykjavík. In some places, there is no food, and in some places floors will not be shed. The Kjaradei as such is not my subject here at the Senate Hall but the social projects involved. After a collapse, it was a great sport to ensure that Iceland did not go along with a number of other countries during a crisis, but the tendency is to secure jobs for men with investments in material infrastructure, while social infrastructure is at the same time cut down, leading to long - term inaccession of women and on the way to an increase in unpaid workload. It was successful in preventing Iceland, which seems to have not been enough. A recent report by sociologist Kolbeinn H. Stefánsson indicates that the growth in disability - related people is largely attributable to women 50 years of age and older. Moreover, people in the lower income phases, especially women, seem to have more health problems than people in the upper income phases. While women are generally older than men in Iceland, these findings show that they have fewer years for good health, longer than fewer years for good health. It would be peaceful to see which women are at the highest risk, but it is not likely that women who are caring for and teaching will land there at high risk. If we concomitantly study figures on sexual and sexual violence, it may be said that we do not treat women particularly well in Iceland. As a community, we need to face the fact that we rely on women's unsalaried and ill - paying jobs, and now the long - term outcome is the long - term outcome. The political task is to restore an agreement to correct these errors. We can if we do it together. In the present cycle, I wish the parties all the best, and above all, I wish that we would have the best luck to keep the tapes right for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u10	A respectable president. At lunchtime, a strike struck; a school strike, a strike by the elderly, a stroke by the villains. We've created a system where we say on days that there's equality in Iceland. Just as for who, for those who are good? Yes, but the others who are not good are swept under the carpet. And who are those at the top? Yes, women. We must ask ourselves in all the equal struggles that have gone over: Why is this year really going on? I'm asking members of the welfare and social systems that come over and over again to this chair in opposition and say that now you have to board your sleeves and do something for those who have the lowest salary but then get to power in the city and then things turn around, "Where is all righteousness? Is that normal, and is it justified that those who are to care for our children do so in some form of social work? We appreciate it so that they will receive $250,000. paid off? How on earth have we got it out? And we're going to say to these people, stay on these minimums, stay on these shits, stay on the rest of them, and we'll make sure that when you retire, you're worse. What kind of message is this about the future? Are we really going to send out the message that the biographies are for everyone? The biographies aren't for everyone. It's already been taken out. The old civilians have already been taken out. Social reforms have already been removed, and it is never possible that biographies will be obtained. But we change in percent. We give the highest, making sure that the few most needed are small.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u11	Mr. President. In Iceland, most of Europe's population is released from greenhouse gases. With us on our boat, only the Norwegians of the European nations, who properly get on board and increase their emissions from the end of the 1980's. This is reflected in a recent report by the Norwegian research facility Nordregio on the state of the northern region, prepared by the Council of Ministers of the Norwegian Committee, which was published today and among others. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you. The report says that emissions in Iceland have increased by 32% since 1990-2017 but only slightly in Norway or by 3% in the same period. This growth in emissions in Iceland can primarily be explained by increasing growth in energy-rich industry, such as aluminium production. This increased transport emissions by 57% in Iceland between 2000 and 2017. Foreign tourists thought to come along. The use of energy due to house warming increased by 22% over the same period. Nordregio reports that the development of energy use and emissions in Iceland is not in line with the government's declared targets of noncarbonization in the year 2040. Ideally, Icelanders see the need to dress up in bridges and actually introduce the technology that is already possible, and it is known here for carbon binding and heavy - industry storage. A respectable president. There are positive factors and factors in which we are on the move. Iceland is at the head of the Northern countries on renewable energy rates with 72% and that makes us proud. But there are other areas in which we need to get our shit together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank Iceland's receivers, but they've been pretty strict. The pressure has been intense in very short periods of time. Large calls have been virtually daily bread since November. This, of course, presents a challenge to all who serve in this important field as well as to their family and friends. Rescue teams, the Red Cross, the public defenses, the police, fire departments, and medical agents, as well as volunteers, are to be thanked for their efforts and their unselfish work. Of course, a self - sacrificing spirit is a word that comes to mind and thanks at the same time. Besides the pressures that have remained, as I mentioned, there are, of course, the countless works that will never be found in news, but these members will still be able to do as alone. So in these days, it is important that we stand together as one community, and I feel that messages have come, including. from the highest. Prime Minister, be important when all of this has come under attack. Let's hear it for our painful people. Governments must listen and make sure that reacters and those who have suffered physical, mental, and some loss of property throughout the country will have adequate support. That's what I think is a minimum requirement. We are to secure public security, and for the purpose that it is urgent that we review the damaged structures and make decisions about how to build up again so that the people of our country can live where they choose to live without fear and insecurity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u13	Mr. President. Iceland became a little richer last night, but only after the unbroken solidarity of the people against a decision that the Icelandic government had planned to dismiss from the country of a seven - year - old child who had stayed here for two years. Let us not forget that in all our compliments toward the same government. But let's take a little look at it from a bigger angle. During a six - year period, the Icelandic government expelled 317 children who had applied for international protection. It's one kid a week. For six years, the government has expelled one child from the country every week. During that time, the government provided nearly half of the number of children who left the country. Last year 74 children were denied protection. These governments even dismiss the land of children born here. It is simply not right to indicate that we have stopped sending people to Greece. We do so without hesitation, and it ends up in the street and feels like hell, as is going to happen tonight at Hick. Tonight, the Icelandic public can face the right face of the system. Mr. President. Is it not to think of a completely different system, and in a country now the tenth richest in the world, in a land that itself had to accept international assistance just ten years ago, in a country that even accepted support from the United Nations until 1976? But this is true of our blessed Iceland. Mr. President. We can do so much better and should.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u14	A respectable president. This week, there is an important discussion in Iceland's University for the renewal of a service contract with a Foreignland Institute on the dental analysis of candidates for international protection. A student council has challenged university councils to replace the service contract, thus protecting the human rights of refugees. For this reason, it is appropriate to remind you that a core age analysis bill is now being discussed in the General and Education Committee. In a rough way, the parallel in the reviews of the matter makes clear a call for improvement. I'll cut down here on one of the reviews that are taking hold of the main points, with the permission of a president: A national protection agency supports the whole idea that the alien laws are adjusted in accordance with the European Council's recommendations so that when unsure whether candidates applying for international protection are children, they should always be evaluated as children and not as adults, and that a comprehensive assessment should be made to try to find their age, not dental analyses, which are the nature of the case, as it has considerable limits. Mr. President. The decision of a university council on dental diagnosis is not easy. Within the university, many feel that since this method is used on a different level by the Foreign Institute, it is the best thing to do is to be done by the university. That position protests students along with the majority of all university employees with good reason. The Matrix, however, can solve the university by agreeing to the existing bill. In this way, the welcome of refugees and refugees could be greatly improved in terms of human dignity and consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u15	Mr. President. First of all, the issue is settled. The last speaker, although there is no material discussion here, has also been a statement on the General and Education Committee that tooth analysis is a pretty good way of evaluating age, although there are certainly a limit of error. I have not heard that people in general felt that this method should fall away, even if it is necessary to examine more factors than merely the results of such analysis. I think it's important to keep this up. Personally, I believe that a dental analysis is normal and in no way inappropriate that it will happen with a service contract at Iceland's University as it has been. Not at all. I came up here first and foremost to say what happened. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. The weather that has gone over the country recently and other natural disasters have come to light, making it certainly necessary for us to review our basic potential for dealing with situations and what may arise. I think it's important that we go over the working conditions and the ability of the operator to react and the party to monitor individual factors. However, I would like to mention, of course, that situations such as those that have been treated, such as recent and recent days in the area of Grinsavík, reveal that the reaction is not merely a human reaction and the means to deal with situations but, rather, attention to basic infrastructure, such as transport, electrical energy, and so on, both in that area and elsewhere where nature has been observed recently. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u16	Mr. President. Today, a number of workers within the Member States started fighting for better costs, and there is a great need for this. Most of these are low - paying women, who have spent far too long scraping the bottom of the country's pay cases. No matter how well we politicians and labor groups have tried to earn their lowest salary, it has been successful in many ways. It always begins with the leap of dolphins, rising from the lowest of the ears, the rest of those with a better heart. What can be done? I believe that it must be about to watch this isolated, that we must attach this lowest salary to any approved salary, whether it is the town's salary or the mayor of the local community, that they are always the proportion of that wage and follow it, or the salary of the council or the minister. It's not acceptable in our rich society that people get a full-time job of 250,000 bucks. paid, knowing that no one can support himself on that prize. We've had the analysis of futures that are far above that number, that's just the cold reality, whatever all excel documents say. I am very pleased with the biographies that were made, and in many respects raising wages, and many side operations, whether in the health or the tax system, but we have to face that there are large groups, largely low-paying women and also low-payers, who work on pay that is not acceptable for an Icelandic country. There we must gather together, and that can be done in Reykjavík. That's what they're supposed to do, and people just have to face themselves with it. It is not acceptable to invite people who take care of our children and older ones to live with these poor prospects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u17	A respectable president. Last week, the Council of Europe approved my report on political prisoners in Azerbaijan. Here, we seldom discuss this country, though it is part of the Council of Europe and the European Convention of Human Rights, as we do. Since the Council of Europe, two decades ago the Azerbaijan has determined that governments in that country no longer imprisoned the government, journalists, or other individuals with conflicting views that are not at their own. And since then, the Azersk government has yearned, refused to admit the problem, and continued in a busy manner even though they have released some in between, even to the same people, shortly thereafter incarcerated. President. The history of the European Council's struggle for freedom of conscientious prisoners or political prisoners, as we call it in the report, has been littered. In 2018, it was found that the Azersk government paid largely to the Parliaments of the Council of Europe in 2012/2014, including 2012/2014. to report a report comparable to mine on political prisoners in Azerbaijan. Since the dark year of the 2013 report, much water has flowed to the European Council. An independent study, judicial action against corrupt members of Congress, the promotion of interest registration, and the awareness of the dangers of corruption caused by irrefutable government. My agreement may not put an end to this marvelous problem in the states and our friendship states, Azerbaijan, but I want to mean that it will mark a new beginning, which hopefully represents a better time for democracy in Azerbaijan.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u18	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee's Committees on the bill to legalize the stock markets, renovations and electronic financial registrations. The committee has discussed the matter in their meetings and has received visitors and reviews, as mentioned in the introduction to the committee's opinion. This bill contains the Council Regulation and the Council No. 909/2014 for improved stock collections in the European Union and on stock markets, called CSDR protocols, introduced into Icelandic correctly by a reference method. In combination with the entry of the bill, the legislation on the electronic ownership of stocks falls, No. 131/1997, of which a number of laws are taken up in the bill today. One of the objectives of CSDR is to increase competition between stock markets. This is a requirement in the Regulation for so-called partnerships, which have the intent to allow publishers and accountmakers to transfer financial gains between stock markets. The review of Iceland's Pentateuch to the Committee shows that VBM presents a basis for competition between European stock markets, which is important in this area as well as others. However, it is quite likely that Iceland's stock market competition will in a way be the publisher of a letter written by one stock centre and that they will be registered by another but not through the integration of stock markets. Therefore, it is important that the bill allows for the publisher's authorization to dissert letters at the stock market. Otherwise, the market managers will try to build legal and technical barriers that hold a transfer of stock markets in the way, even if it is a long shot. Second mg at the 3rd issue. Twenty-seven. a law on partnerships requires that the management of a partner is permitted to provide stocks electronically at the stock market. However, the law does not specifically recommend permission to extract electrical letters from the stock market. There's also no logbook in the CSDR. This point is stated in the financial and economic journals to the Committee that the bill is primarily designed for the implementation of CSDR and that in general, it is the issue of partnership rights to discuss who can commit societies. Therefore, the Council does not consider it appropriate to suggest specialised EECs on how to proceed with the registration of electrical letters from the stock market. Rather, it is reasonable to believe that this should be agreed in agreements between parties who may follow examples to refer to the labour laws of the stock market. The Commission feels it is unfortunate for a state of uncertainty about what rules apply to the registration of electrical letters at the stock market. Then the Committee has an understanding of the viewpoint that because of the need to prevent the stock market from making use of its own rules and agreements with publishers to make it difficult for publishers to transport between stock centres, thus preventing natural and ideal competition that the bill is designed to support. The Commission feels that it is important to distinguish between the registration of letters at the stock market, depending on whether it is intended to register the letters at another stock center or not. In this context, the Committee considers it important to observe the ownership of the letters of the owners as well as that the minority protection of shareholders in the stock situation. The Commission believes that there is a basis for further analysis of the rules and the viewpoints of the unregistered letters for the stock market. The Commission will take the matter up with their own initiative, along with the payment of the bill on this topic and will consider further consultation with relevant experts and stakeholders. The Commission reports that following that work, she gives a bill that clearly aims to discuss the rules of the registration of funds at the stock market, with the aim of providing support for the competition of stock markets. The committee makes a number of adjustments, but in principle, two of the varied ones. In the 28th C.E. The bill comes in, including... so that the head of the stock exchange centres can only do legal jobs for other stock markets that can't put a risk on business issues between the two partners or in financial markets. The Commission's comments to the Commission raise questions about handling legal work for the stock market may harmonize with a session in the management of another stock exchange center. Hence, it may be normal to be making an outright contribution to the management of the stock market for legal work for other stock markets. Having agreed with the Ministry, the Committee suggests a change in 1st. Twenty-eight. The bill in accordance with UNECE tip. Code 3 mgr. Twenty-nine. The bill outlines the authorization of the UN to direct instructions to anyone who is responsible for violating the law's law to stop the conduct and not repeat it. The Commission's comments to the Committee indicate that this is a matter of duty. Having agreed with the Ministry suggests that the Commission accepts the proposal and suggests an appropriate adjustment of 3 mg. Twenty-nine. Other changes proposed by the committee are technical and do not have material influence on the bill. In view of this, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes mentioned in the committee's opinion. The Þorsteinn Víglundsson Wílundsson and Brondís Haraldsdóttir were absent from the case but considered to write to President Óli Þór Gunnarsson Kárason, Brundar Níelsson, Sigurðsson of K. Gylfadóttir, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson's Davíð, and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u19	Mr. President. I thought that it was only right if I had the opportunity to give a talk on a bill to legalize the stock exchanges to say goodbye because of what I want to draw attention to and what to say. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson came in and mentioned in the Committee to Commission Committee for Economic and Business Affairs is heading for a bill in a few weeks to ensure that between stock market competitions can be promoted. It's completely lonely at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee to conduct this role. Of course, I hope, Mr. President, that we will prosper in bringing up the bill before the scheduled deadline, March 31st. It may be, though, because it's not quite a simple matter for us to move forward, and then I wish the senators to look through their fingers, since we are named each one of us, and men must bear it in mind, but we are going to get it within the hour. It has to do with the fact that if you are moving the relevant letter to another stock centre, it is absolutely clear that an electronic letter can be canceled in one of the stock markets. It is not to be opened that governments are able to log down messages in a simple way, that would be possible on the rights or on the protection of smaller items. It's important to keep that in mind. It is also important to note that it may also be wise to suggest changes in the laws we are accepting here along with what we are going into the Community Court, which ensures that stock markets are not allowed to negotiate with the registration of the stocks regulations that prevent the transfer of the relevant stocks, stocks, or bonds into other stock markets. In other words, it is a determined will and complete agreement on the Economic and Business Commission to provide necessary legal adjustments aimed at promoting and strengthening competition between stock markets while protecting my rights and not providing for smaller items, e.g. In part society, bear a sharp object from the table. Mr. President. I thought it was proper and necessary to clarify this a little bit better, though Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson did a great job of presenting the opinion of the Committee, which was, of course, oneness.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u20	A respectable president. A group of people have often provided suggestions, changes, bills, and conclusions that include improved interest in older citizens, disability, and those with the lowest wage in society. Here's another level of justice. Older citizens have called for their pension income income and their rights at the so - called common holiday market to be respected in order to be reduced by 45% against their social security. The tax is taken from him. There are probably few who, if any, live to be taken in such a bakery what appeals to the acquired rights of their possession and the elderly. We're talking about who else, but they're probably up to 80%. The bill presented here requires changes in social security laws, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes. With me on the bill, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. 1st par. The bill says: ◯4. Case.1. mg 23rd par. The law says, "So shall the pensioner have a special holiday goal, on the other hand, a hundred thousand dollars." Because of employment and a hundred thousand dollars. 'Cause they're making pensions, that's for what they're doing. This is an addition to what is now present, but a group of people have previously proposed a judicial arrangement that is now in their arms at the highest level. The Minister of Social Affairs, and the plan, if I rightly understand, is to bring his findings into the council before March 1. The bill suggests that rather than taking over such measures, a government fund would profit greatly by allowing the elderly to work longer, those who trust to work longer than that so - called legalization as we cross the threshold of being legally validated older citizens. Today, the Free Reunion Point is $25,000. which means that a pension fund, or whatever else, can fall into it by increasing the payoff rate to a hundred thousand dollars. I'm going to refer to the report for a moment. This bill was also submitted to the last legislature, then 896, but it did not succeed. At best, you get to measure the case. Then it goes on to the staff and there's a request for the reviews and/or that the client come and follow their report. This often goes well with the NTSB, but for some reason, it goes on for days. The established general practice of the High General Assembly is that the government council members are here engaged in making a good deal of work. Maybe not everyone likes them, but someone thinks so, at least those who are working on them. They also use the taxpayers'capitals, which are here used to sponsor political parties to buy specialized services, calculations, and so on in order to be able to support them with good reason and to show that there is some sense in them. But if you know, for some reason they disappear more often than not, and when it comes to these so - called horse weddings, as I like to call it, a respectable president, before any holiday of the council, such as before Christmas, summer vacation and Easter holiday, it seems that one of the tools of these proselytists is trying to negotiate with a committee that is already ready. We live in Congress, and I don't understand the panic of the government parties and the majority of the part here getting our affairs in the Senate hall. I don't know better than that they have more parts here and that it's over heads exactly the same, exceptionally, not without exception, but almost no matter what we brought--it's cut. All other factors, however, may be counted on the fingers of one hand at each leg of the legislature. However, I would like to refer to a conclusion that the National Association of older citizens stated on the general budget we're measuring here. With President's permission, I'm going to read directly from the conclusion: ▪ The European Commission of the older citizen's Union concludes on November 26, 2018, and directs to Iceland's Government to a general cut-off target on the 1 mg. 23rd par. track No. 100 from 2017 on social security increase by 25,000. a month, $50,000 a.m. at least one month, as soon as possible. At the same time, arrangements will be made to raise the same common holiday target from $50,000 per cent. ... at 75,000K. Not later than January 1, 2021, as well as a plan to raise it from 75,000 bucks. ... at 100,000K. at least 1 January 2022 As you can hear, this is certainly a modest conclusion and shows the humility of older citizens whom we have observed. Everything is not being asked for and done immediately. They are trying to take small steps of justice and to meet governments so that they can do as they pray. I have to admit, we're not quite so modest in our bill and change. We think it's a minimum of 100,000 dollars for this common holiday target. and we can't see that there's anything waiting. The funding and decline that would be taken from older citizens would be about 12 billion a year. If we were talking about a change from 0, we'd be cutting down senior citizens because of the pension rights and the general credit rights of 16 billion a year. But they already have this 25,000 coin. which is about 4 billion. As a fund of state in these added limitations. Who doesn't know what the taxes are and what they don't know? That's what we know here. It's taking the lives of an elderly citizen about 35 billion a year because of its earned rights in a pension fund, a legalized pension fund. It must be paid whether you like it or not. I'm not gonna keep it all out of my way. I don't need anything, it's clear. We in the Gang of the People have been fighting for the complete loss of employment. We believe it is public health for the elderly. There aren't many in the group that stay healthy until I'm 200 years old, so I'm exaggerating only because it looks like we're supposed to be immortal, I think. It is coming to the cost of a terrible wealth of money to allow us to work as long as we trust. Most of us cannot work full - time when we are over 70 years old, and most do not. Some older citizens really long for social and anyway, and if they were healthy, they would want to do a 50% job if available. They are thoroughly affected, in addition to the costs of getting out and to work and other such factors, that most would come to pieces. It is public health to allow seniors to work longer without cutting their salary. It is profit - making, making better health, prolongs time at home, prolongs the time to seek other living arrangements, such as nursing homes or nursing homes. It will prolong our life in health as far as possible. This is the special vacation market I was talking about as a target of the elderly, but it is also the common market that we wish to raise from $25,000. ... at 100,000K. All the people's members here contribute to the effort to arrive, e.g. Minimum advance to 300,000. tax and inadequacy for those with nothing else, no pension fund, nothing to rely on, except on the State Insurance Institute, think of people who may be ill, have been injured and have no choice. But, no, they get just over 200,000 bucks. paid with the striped extension of the insurance agency. What did the U.S. Senate say that the poorest people receive 300,000 dollars? tax and inadequacy? The fun part is to say it was killed before Christmas. Of all of the Generals' groups, it was taken or did not participate in a vote that, in my opinion, means that they don't care about it, this is not their case, and they don't care about it. It was only the party of the people, the Pirates and the United States that fought for it here for Christmas, for the Coalition and the Piranians with us, trying to bring the minimum tax-inaccessibilities to 300,000. Now we'll see what's going on at the labour market, a respectable president. What is going on in the city where men fight for oppressed women's classes as sheds, scrubs, and requests, taking care of our children, and caring for others in medical institutions and clinics? We'll see how much they are valued. We will see how much a young woman's value is appreciated, which was an article in the magazine the other day that she receives 240,000 cents. after 100% work, at a maximum of 2 60,000 k. If she's lucky she's got overtime, the girl who had a little girl and rented a 40-m2 apartment in 150,000. per month. We see the situation, but there are many things we can do better if we want to do better. We can do better than reduce the price of hunting and the tax on the bank. We can do better than move $139,12.5 billion in there. to those who have nothing to do with them. This case that we're measuring here, raising the general pay-off target to 100,000 credits, is just a fair and fair matter, and I'm sure it would be welcomed. That's what I'm thinking about being content for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u21	A respectable president. We're talking about the mob's bill on a change in social security law, about a pension-free market. This is one of the most important matters that have been put forward here because this matter is the most important thing to the group in the pension system. Who are the most vulnerable? Unfortunately, it's women's classes, as we've seen here. It tells us a story where all our talk about equal pay and other things is limited. Sadly, over the past few years and decades it has been clear that what is said in government is not in control. What is said in this public address or class does not apply when you are in control in the city. So it doesn't matter whether they belong to the Reverend Jón or the usual John. To tell people years after years and decades to try to survive $250,000. After a full day's work, it's totally pathetic... and kind of to the shame of the highlands. It is even more shameful when it is said to those who are sick and elderly who do not achieve full rights from an insurance institution that they will survive 200,000 k. Even under $200,000. per month. We are sorry to talk about a group of people, especially those working for people, especially women in low - paying jobs. They work for years and decades, burning into hard work on the minimum wage. What will we do when these individuals retire? They're even worse. The system has arranged for taxes, impairments, and chain - carrying impairments so that the people who have not been able to break their normal wages are going to try to reach torra in the pensions that are under the income. It's atrocious. The pension fund has a 38.9% decrease, 45% decrease in pensioners. I've already got $25,000. A small, almost nothing, but better than nothing. But what is a hundred thousand dollars? Peasant markets? That means that if you are on the lowest salary today and are retired, you may have a chance of living on these pensions, as well as an additional 100,000 dollars. For free income, we would take a big first step in making sure that a large group of people, especially women, could live with dignity. You kind of get a nob, because when you get into the system of taxes, the impairment, and the chain reaction of the impairment, you start to wonder how this system could have been created in the first place. Who invented it? While these individuals may have invented this system and created it, why do they allow it to continue year after year, decades from year to year, and not change it? Is this because those in charge are already so comfortable that they have nothing to worry about? They're just fine. Then we've made up, like I said in a speech earlier today, a double system, an equal system for those who are good and then we're going to scream the others under the carpet and they're just supposed to have it shit. Then the common people may ask, " Wait, why is it this way? ' It's simple. This is the way it is because the classes that have been in power over the past few years promise us beautiful things but cheat everything after election. Then they seem to say one thing in a position of government and another when they are in control. It does not seem to change who is in power. All the groups that have arrived at councils have come to some extent to pay contracts already through the city - and what? We see the consequences, there are no changes. It is strange and also disrespectful when trying to defend this position by saying that it is a lifetime document agreement that has been approved. Standards for who? I ask, " How in the world can it be a life contract for someone if he can't live by it? ' There's no way to decorate on the way that it's something that everyone should swallow. We are talking about that over a few years, pay should be increased by 68,000 dollars. We've got a grapp of pay at the city that's incredibly low, you get kind of a mouth-stop. That's 280,000 bucks. a full - time job, and then five years or more, they reach more than 300,000. This tells us that when these people retire, they are in poverty. By agreeing with this bill and accepting the pay-off target for a pension price of 100,000 dollars. They always come and say, it costs so much, it costs 16 billion. What have we done at the council? We've taken away the bank tax, dropped hunting costs, and all the other things we're doing, such as changing the character discount. Why was it not all put on those who earn the lowest, and what they really need? I'm asking, for example. in context to this: How is it that we are paying the lowest wage? It wasn't like this, and unfortunately, the fact is that taxes have greatly increased and are most likely among those who should, in particular, have been paid and paid at the lowest. Hence, it is important for us to start, but unfortunately, all such good suggestions have generally come true, and the evidence is usually that this cost too much and that there is no money. That's wrong, money's real, they're just not going to the right place. It says all about those who have the authority at any given time to vote on this path, and I ask the public to observe because they are the ones out there, the public, who can change this by showing in the next election that they are not going to tolerate yet another period that will be known to be the least, that those who have a legitimate requirement of living a decent life will still be paid the price. There's a large group in poverty, a large group in very poor condition, and I'm telling you, this is a disgrace to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u22	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize various legal delinquencys on the financial and economic domains of the Ministry that share the common obligation to have served their purpose and therefore it is the right to dismiss the law. The bill suggests that a total of 32 laws will be canceled, the oldest from 1926, the youngest from 2008. These are currency legislation, property and economic and tax issues. Various laws of the law no longer apply, or arrangements, are passed on. In general, it is preferable to remove out - of - date laws and laws that are no longer needed. Not only is this simplified but there is evidence of the correctness to suggest that out - of - date laws be formally suspended. The bill is a relatively simple structure. The laws involved are, as I have come in here, by various means. They care for making a loan on account of a steel - saving factory. Similarly, there is a warrant for selling land houses in the A T - shirt and tax freedom laws in connection with government funds. This is merely judging by a number of suggestions in the bill. When preparing the case, the value of each legal group was evaluated on the basis of whether it was correct and predestination to remove it. It will then be the upcoming challenge for the Economic and Business Committee to review it further, but it has been considered here to see if there was no guarantee that the law would no longer serve any purpose in the legislature. The signs that the bill was published in a cross language in November. There were no reviews. It was not unexpected, as this is not some sort of chemical transformation of existing rights and therefore it is not easy to see some specific legal protection issues that might apply. According to this, a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee after the end of this discussion and then to the 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u23	A respectable president. I come here mostly to commend the highest. Secretary of finance for this bill. It reduces my bill and Pirata to a deportation of the law proposed to the 149th and 148th Congress for the very removal of 208 songs. Twenty-nine of those on the Prime Minister's bill were in that very bill of ours, Pirata. This matter is now being carried out on the Generals Committee to make it possible for the Ministers to adopt it in their field of affairs to eliminate the unnecessary laws involved. Now the secretary of finance has taken his own business and finished it. There are many other issues that need to be mixed up in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u24	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a matter of Congress, a bill to legalize the commitment of life insurance rights and the operation of pension funds. This is a matter related to the common responsibility of pension funds and their equality policy. This bill was submitted to a Council of 148, 149, but it was not granted and is now reassigned. The adjustment put into this section is largely twofold, and the previous motion is as follows: ◯ At 1st. 36 st. The law adds to a new number, as follows: The pension fund shall set up an equal policy that covers the fund's investments. Now it is in this 36th grade. has a general discussion of the investment policy of pension funds, which sets out a few things that pension funds should keep in mind, including being guided by financial interests and setting moral standards in investments, to name just a few. So here it is being suggested that they be added to the new figures on equality policy and equality policy will reach the budget's investments. This is linked in the bill to a change of 41 st. which includes the management report: We're 2nd. 41 st. The law adds new numbers, as follows: conduct the financial equality policy of the fund. This means that the review of the fund's activities and other information on how the pensions have been carried out on this policy of equality. Before going into the subject of the bill itself, I would like to have a few words about the position that will be revealed when the political paraphernalia of Icelandic financial life is traced. I'm going to quote an article from the core since February of our last year, but for a few years, the nuclei has published such a survey every year, and I expect that February, which is now started, will be no exception, but this study is said to be a year old. It says, by permission of the president: This year, like last year, she reached 90 top managers of business banks, savings, pension funds, registered associates, unauthorized insurance companies, loan companies, stock companies, and services, revenue funds, energy companies, deposit companies, Kalulls, and loan funds. The conclusion now is that 80 of them are men, but ten are women. Women are growing by one in between... This group that falls under the assessment conditions controls thousands of billions of dollars and decides which investments they make. In retrospect a few years, the difference, i.e. The proportion of men and women among these highest rulers is closer. There has been little or nothing changed in the years when the new ones are supposed to be among the most progressive years of equality. In addition, I'm going to list here, linked to this case, a few facts. In Iceland, sales are registered 21 companies. They all meet criteria for gender proportions in governments, normal. Sexual proportions have been added to the law. In the administration of seven companions, women are equal to men or more than men. But in 16 of these, men are both presidents and directors. The three members of the projection board are reserved for men. There is no woman who is president of a registered partner in the Sale Hall. Just before Christmas, Ásta Dís Óladóttir, Gylfi Dalmann Aðalsteinsson's daughter, and Þóra H. Christiansen adopted the University of Iceland's Trade Department published an article in the Government magazine and management magazine asking if there was no demand for women in high management positions. A study under the article of the three cultures carried out by a female executive in Icelandic employment showed some ideas on how to increase the number of women in management positions, e.g. that companies in a private market would be obliged to advertise such activities. It was said that a change in work ethic and employment culture was needed in Iceland and that it would improve the birthworm system in order to make it easier for women to take the lead. Pension funds were referred to as a history in which they would be assigned a policy of ownership with sexuality in companies where they invest in the minimum of each member of the Commission would not be less than 40%, i.e. that the pension fund does not finance companies where it was broken. More important, this cited study and then the article presented a great deal of support among this group, the female managers, that the Allied Council legalized sexuality in job management positions. But the matter we are discussing right now is about our pension fund. I have full faith that the other discussion will one day cloth up. The impact of pension funds in Icelandic business life is considerable, as the most important funds in Icelandic financial markets are for some time. They are 22 directed by 16 individuals. Of these, there are 14 men, two females. Only to put things in perspective, what are we talking about when we speak about the power and the existence of the pension fund, when at the end of December 2018, we were evaluated for 4,440 billion. The fund is holding a large portion of the bonds and registered shares either directly or indirectly through the funds they have invested in and, as noted, they also invest much in unregistered assets and, for example, pick up large amounts of loans for real estate purchases. According to the law on the mandatory insurance rights of pensions, referred to here in the beginning, and the operation of pensions, all employees and occupations and/or independent activities are obliged to ensure their pension rights through the head of a pension fund. The Pension Fund is thus entrusted with public funds and, as a result, obviously have a social role. This role is recognized and reflected. of the year 36. law states that pension funds should guide financial interests and set moral standards in investments. This bill suggests that the stocks should further become part of the social role of pensions, in terms of equal status and equal social rights of men and women, by stating that the funds should set up an equal policy and that, in the same way, they should be mentioned in the annual report how the policy of equality went, how investments cooperated with the policy. In this way, the funds of pension are to explain specifically the grounds for investing in companies with a sex accord that is largely high among the highest rulers, for example. Mr. President. In fact, this trend should be self-recognized and natural in view of the role of pension funds in the community, although a number of research shows that companies with a more balanced gender ratio in the management and executives in general are improving. This should, therefore, fall under the community responsibility of the so - called funds. But in view of the situation in Icelandic business life, in view of the statistics I have in mind. Here, read it and is known, and in view of how effective this has been, it is advisable to make a special recommendation for this obligation of the pension fund by law. Mr. President. Although much has been achieved in the fields of equality, certain areas of society seem to be a little bit on the boat. An example is the financial sector. The figures are striking, showing that more than 90% of those who control money in this country are men, and among them, the funds are cut off because they belong to the public. The Pension Funds have, so I give it, a social role to play, they manage our money, and they are extremely, very, very, very, very important in their business affairs through their investments. So here it is suggested that the pension fund be so responsible when it comes to promoting equality in the community, that is how they do their social duties in the best way and the role they are assigned to play in the community. It is therefore suggested that this social obligation be legalized so that pension funds are made to set an equal policy that reaches investments. The standard of equality is set in Article 1. This bill, however, is not enough. They need to have a clear view of how it is being carried out. Therefore, it is also highlighted and suggested that the pension budget be made according to this law in the annual report on how equality policy is conducted. That's how the funds, for example. need to explain why investing is in enterprises that do not meet equality criteria. And it's important to me that this is a matter of legalizing the debt of pensions in order to back up your choices and decisions. There is no legalization of intervention in decisions otherwise. Thus, this can hardly be regarded as a major limit to their freedom. Rather, it is simply a requirement, a normal requirement, from the owners of the funds, and from those of interest in choice, decision, and action. It is the political duty to watch for ways to change and improve the system of things for the benefit of the common people. We should not allow certain areas of society to be left out there, and we should not allow certain areas of society to get caught in sexual misconduct. In the first two experiments, the harmony of the importance of the case and its application was discussed in the reviews of the case. On the other hand, some felt that with these changes there would be a chance that less emphasis would be placed on investing in accordance with the common rule of reason - and I would refer, for example, to an investment. in the review of the SEC - i.e. to meet the obligation to invest in enterprises where there is a balance in the sex ratios of the management board and the Commission, there is a risk that less emphasis should be placed on investing in accordance with a rational principle. Here is a misunderstanding that will be useful in settling the work of the Committee, when the case takes place, and the committee makes visitors, and I have strong faith that it will succeed for the third time. So the fact is, as I have repeatedly said, that what needs to be done is to back up the decision. Surely all of us can agree on that. It's a rule of reason. Some commentators have also pointed out that such legislation would be appropriate for all institutions to make investments. The Pension Funds would not be taken out of there separately. I can honestly say that in time it might be considered. But the difference between pension funds and other institutions is the person I've spent a considerable amount of importance explaining and discussing, i.e. That pensioning is legal, and therefore more and more community obligations lie upon them and their rulers. Mr. President. It is a matter of assembly, as is the case with the rest of the Council. The members of the council of Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Hrafn Höfns Gunns Gunnarsson of Gurnar. It may be well to assume that when the matter was first presented, the members of the Parliament were considerably more. But as it turns out, they may get tired of these repeated advances. Not the one standing here, but it's not to deny that I hope I'm not going to stand here again and do this without any political treatment and going all the way. I've concluded my case now, Mr. President, and I wish the case should go to the Economic and Business Committee. I hope and believe that there will be good and quick progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u25	Mr. President. I recommend a Senate case, a synonym that is intended to respond to repeated requests for the harm caused by driving and other extracurricular activities. We hope that all of us will agree that such speech is of little value and must be restored as quickly as possible and as soon as possible after it is caused. Each year, however, a number of fines are reported on outingage, but the damage often lasts a long time, especially if the damage is caused outside the national parks. It was the visit of a council group in the East as the idea that this particular solution arose, and we therefore have a huge appreciation for their mental and attentive eyes, including people who have considerable experience in working to distance from road surfaces, such as the ones we discuss here. The solution is so simple that it is surprising that it has not appeared before. In its short case, it means that the same amount of money that runs into a government fund for fines outside the road will be given in a special fund, a mine fund. A local association will then be able to obtain contributions from the fund against implementing further repairs on deforestation, of course, with the support of members with expertise in organizing and controlling such measures. We're here talking about sports companies, Boy Scouts, or all kinds of environmental organizations that have plenty of interested people who know well how to take their jobs, improve the country, and get more funding for the development of sports and social life around the country. With me to the proposal are the members of the reverend, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, and the council member of the United Nations, and Elíasdóttir the Friðbjörg of Elias, the senators of Pirata, the Björn of Gunns, and Hrafn Hynns Gunnarsson Gunnarsson of Gunn, and the members of the Council of Flocks, the Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristinsson. The text itself is as follows, with president's permission: ▪ The General concludes to hide the Environment and Resource Minister to later set up a fund fund fund fund that will be funded from state funds and aim for repairs on soil erosions as a result of mishaps from national parks. Mr. Secretary puts the fund on distribution rules, which include... enables partners to collect funds from the fund in order to achieve its goals. The report then discusses the export, that no less than the same amount of money, and went into the state's budget for fines before driving outside the road will be brought into this fund. The report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ It is reasonable to believe that financial contributions in the fund will be minimally paid state funds for fines due to external driving, as well as further contributions as needed. Since not all funds will be sufficient to cover expenses, it is important that ministers consider how much money will be spent from a government fund each year in addition to the fines made. In addition, it is important to make use of the information collected over time regarding the actual cost of repairs to reevaluate the amount of fines with the aim of reaching the cost to the extent possible. This is due to the fact that at first there could be an unforeseen cost, because, as you can see, it is the guilty pay that is now laid on the basis of misdirection not directly related to the cost of fixing. These data have not been collected, so it is recommended that, at the same time, it is made normal that, when it comes to damages and which causes them, they carry the cost. It is expected that contributions into the fund will collect fines regardless of whether damage is done within national parks or outside. However, they will be protected solely for repairing damaged national parks. In time, and when there is more accurate data on the extent of damage and the cost of repair, the level of fines can also be determined according to the cost of repairs. It will then be possible to decide whether to reduce donations to national parks at a repair cost for road transport and to allow donations to be made within national parks. There is a question later. Until then, we have reason to believe that the distribution will only be spent on areas where there is now no funds to repair damages due to road transport. I have completed my review, Mr. President, requesting that the case be referred to a conquistador of the Environment and Transport Committee and will be followed by a quick and careful release by the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this presentation. I remind myself that external driving was a huge problem for years and decades, but it's earned a lot of money. Things are far better now than they were, but they certainly are still neglecting people who are driving outside. One and another wait for absolution. When I see this synopsis and particularly the report, I feel that there's something clear about the matter that I'm missing. What's the range of outages really? I would have liked to see some information about this in my report and just what the damage is. It is very difficult to assess the cost of road road damage, since this may be in the coastal area, somewhere on top of the highlands, green areas, or underground areas. We know all of this. There is no attempt to determine whether this damage will increase or decrease the cost. There's another thing, of course, that's all of this, and that's what we can call natural correction of road transport. In some cases, nature is very quick to erase these marks, for example. Frozen. In some cases, because of the loss of the signs the following year, it is not possible to make up for it or to make up for it with some special repairs. I would have liked to see some careful preparations and ask why. transporter for reasons it has not been performed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u27	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator believes that this is a bad practice. The proposal includes the creation of an Environment and Resource Minister to set up a demolition fund with the aim of meeting up to repair soil erosions. As I noted, the fines that are being applied for road transport are now being made to repair the same damage. I know and expect in addition to the fact that within the Ministry, there are the information that is needed. I agree with this, and it is true that very positive steps have been taken in the process of increasing awareness. Many things look to better ways, but it does not change that the State, as it is today, helps to fix damages within national parks. The damages of national parks are fined, but these fines do not cover repairing them. It's under the leak we want to put with this suggestion. I don't think it should stop the case that in a report there is no list of the number of fines it is from year to year. I think it's pretty clear that this information will come from the work of the Environment and Resource Minister. It's relatively simple. This is a synopsis proposal to hide the Environment and Resource Minister... to establish this fund in order to stem a situation we know. I don't comment on what you're doing. A senator would have wanted more information, but my opinion is that the information here is sufficient to hide a minister's secret.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u28	Mr. President. It's simply about the question of whether this fund needs it. We may agree with a case of the nature of our request that this fund be prepared and prepared in the Ministry. I mentioned the guilt as one of the more questions, for I was also trying to figure out the scope of these damages. If it's a big deal, big and wide, it may be necessary, but we are here simply to appreciate the need for this. It would be unnatural, not for the report to be more detailed than it is. I wasn't asking for anything else. On the contrary, I can fully declare that I am not against such a lucrative career. I know the highlands well, its interests are cared for, and I have seen bad damage throughout my life, which was probably repaired by something I do not know how to mention. Who endured repairs, for example. The Canals - Involved Mountains, where aquifers crossed the earth's surface? Who took care of it? Did this money come from the government, they came from the people who have the business, they come from what local society, or how do they do it? I simply don't understand what's behind this Senate resolution. That's all I came up here to advertise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u29	Mr. President. I imagine we're doing what we're doing. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson agrees that it would be best if this fund didn't have to exist because such damage was not the way around, which is the way it is, and at times, it has been recorded and fined. They come out as if they're not exactly in the repairs. Sometimes a human escapes altogether, sometimes with a rule made, and a measure of damage and fined ones is appreciated. There's an equal fee. All efforts are made to get money from the one who still caused the damage. I can totally say that it is necessary in this matter to have perspective on the scope. This information must be available to those in the Ministry and because of what we're doing. A senator is both a member of the Environment and Transport Committee to which the matter is addressed, hopefully, may be one of the first things we'll do to ask for a review from the Ministry if it can get the case forward. Although we are in a better place than we were some decades ago, I have no doubt traveled in the highlands less than the wind. A senator I have seen such signs coming from a road trip to an area where I was sleeping. In some cases, guilt has not been fined, but it almost hurts that in the case of guilt, the money has not been paid because it has gone elsewhere. That's what this case is done to remedy, to try to make sure we fix things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u30	A respectable president. In recent years, people have increasingly come to realize that one of the ways we have to build trust in society is to increase the transparency of what used to occur behind closed doors. This has been made up of the Generals, e.g. Show by your own actions, by making salary and cost paid by members of Congress much more beneficial than they were a few years ago, so now anyone can turn to the World Council's Web on the cost of each of us here. However, the evidence was not invented yesterday, so it is a little fun to look at the fact that some years have been slow each year to look up the taxpayer's stress records of each taxpayer's income every year in this country. However, because there is an old legal warrant for the release of the pressures files, the publication form that was bound into law 40 years ago came to its own years ago and began bearing the mark of how old it is. Today, the pressure logs for public views are placed on paper in the tax manager's office in thick indentated worm folders, where people can stand in order to sit over the paper and turn it over the two - week period available under law. The other forms are in magazines, such as a free trade form of income, which has selected individuals and is especially drawn to show what their income was in recent years. The suggestion here is not necessarily denatual to this display but simply to bring it to modern prospects, to make the display of pressures electronic. This makes me feel that the law is moving closer to showing the files in a suitable place as it is called in the law today because a suitable location today is not a tax manager paper but the net that we all have in our hands day in and day out. You might, for example, take a moment to discuss the purpose of keeping these files available. This is a work that is common and similar in all North countries that share the widespread welfare and intensive public services, which is also a key factor in building up the social trust in these countries and which is one of the main characteristics of the North countries, that we can trust one another. Part of it is not necessarily to look up the neighbors but to be able to do so. You see, the translucency is not necessarily required to use the data but that it is on a level to be examined. It builds trust and sustains it. In unions such as ours in the North countries, tax payments are, in fact, not private payors, but legal social duties, and therefore they have been chosen to publish information in some way. Today, at least three of the northern countries have somehow published the information electronicly, Sweden, Finland, and Norway. Perhaps we can look to Norway, where the tax has been publicized as long as since 1863 and available electronically since 2004. Norwegians have gone through developing this display so that it meets the conditions of personal protection, e.g. The Norwegian tax registers for all information, so the transparency runs in both directions. If I look up anyone, they'll know I looked it up. This provides some insight into the possible misuse of access. What would be interesting to consider in the process of doing this will explain how this tool could be developed in order to further the public service. The media performs a specific service role with these tea leaves as far as they can reach it. But what would it be like, e.g. if you could create a special access for the labour market partners to be analysed from a specific sector of the labour market? We've seen how the site has been able to demonstrate trends in people's social status, but other factors could be drawn up by the well - founded information of the tax manager's stress logs. Of course, this would have to be a careful and moderate consideration of personal protection. This matter has been presented in three earlier councils, in 147, 148, and 149 C.E. In one of those times, I managed to measure it, just two years ago. Then the case went to the committee and received a review from the head of the government of the taxpayer that, technically, there was no basis for implementing this project. The only thing to do would be to decide in the field of politicians whether it was right to do so. In the meantime, something has happened in these matters, and it is more important to include the site income. However, since a private partner made a accessible tax file for 2016. This site was taken down shortly after it was taken up into the air because there was no access to income tax laws for the installation and operating of the electronic database of a certain company in this way. But what this suggestion is to hide a minister in part through an electronic release by the tax authorities so that there can be a measure of control over this, that we are not hiding the database as a whole but that the government can control the basis for the interests of those who have the information in it. Since this matter was last discussed in the hall, new laws on personal protection have also been adopted, which, of course, would have to be taken into account in connection with such changes. But I have no tremendous concern in that, as mentioned earlier, at least three of the northern countries have access to similar information about their citizens and the same personal protection rule as here. All of this would just have to be considered in the light of projection and development, perhaps especially in the Norwegian provinces, and then it would be possible to submit a bill to make this display possible. Just as I am to mention a conclusion adopted at a meeting of the German Centers of August 2000, at the time that this case appears on the General Assembly Web site, where the Council is encouraged to agree to publish pressure logs electronically in which all the tax is published so that such social important information is assured, as it is in the conclusion of a central management. That is exactly what it would need to examine very carefully what information this publication contained in order for it to serve the most purpose. It changed, for example. it is highly important that capital pay be made clear in a community where capital pay is a large part of the income of certain community groups. This is all something that I trust with a financial and business committee to take a close look at the matter and provide a bill that is well beyond all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u31	A respectable president. Hv. A senator came on the website of income history and other interesting statistics that we have on salary in Iceland, pay information. In general, it is not an accurate device. There are a lack of data, and many things are not taken into account, as you hear that people may even be renting at 90,000 bucks, given under contract, but they may actually be renting at 50,000 bucks. More. This disappears, but it is not reflected in the pooled databases as such. We actually have a very unhealthy remuneration environment in Iceland, and I think this may help with the very idea that this is a step. Whether we are going toward having a salary as a confidential information or not, I have at least the opinion that since there is no pay code, anyone can tell what is in the individual's salary. During the two weeks that you can look at such information, there is always some sort of cheating defense against being some kind of confidential information or not. I support taking this step, seriously, similar to what is done in Norway, and I've given a great deal. In a larger context, we can ask about the effect of taking this step on the labour environment we are in general. What does the senator envision, e.g. Advertisement information, even when advertised by employees, is there a little more transparent? After all, you can look up what you have in that company.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u32	A respectable president. Yes, I think what the senator called an unhealthy remuneration is also reflected. ... inauthority. Part of growing the equality in society and securing a decent salary is that people talk about what they pay, that they are associated with community discussions about what the remuneration is like in the community. I think that as far as this case could be moved in order to allow some sources to analyze the data, not just allow individuals to look up other people, we'll find that for example. The management of the labour market is based on almost real-time information about the position of workers in the labour market. I think that would make that conversation considerably deeper and more powerful. In terms of publishing pay information on job advertisements, I think it would be a very positive development. It would be very good to publish all the pay gaps that are advertised because secretly during recruitment is about the contract between the recruiter and the recruiter, that the employer can keep the cards a little tight in the hope that the person applying for the job will not be too excited about the amount of pay. By doing so, he may be able to make a success of that pay program. It would be much more appropriate to have just defined spaces that can be spoken inside and considered them as an individual's education and abilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u33	A respectable president. You see, there is a measure of dismay about the reward. In a pay interview, it's like a bachelor contest, which one's first to say. If the person who goes to work is before, was he doing so much less than a professional person was ready to go to? It's always interesting to look at. In all the published articles I've been through on pay promises, etc., because the reasons I've received are that it actually reduces the people's contract freedom to get a better salary if it's quite open what wages are going on, but studies indicate, on the other hand, that pay is generally higher in an environment where there is no secret. So at least I find it very obvious to support this proposal and take this step because it is a step toward a better fight, especially for people who are in the lowest salary and are usually at the worst in the contracts of their own salary. So I like it a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u34	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here talked about pay interviews as a bachelor contest, I think that's a good description. But this is a very uneven contest in this way so that the payer knows what the company is having while the person asking for a higher salary may just be guessing, doesn't know what the situation is. In this respect, I think that this could just lead to some failure in the company's remuneration, which groups are most likely to be left behind in pay development. It could be that part of an enterprise's gender pay is covered in such a cover-up about this big contest. Because I mentioned the story of income in my address, I remembered that after he took up the scene, a woman who contacted me up all the employees of the workplace she worked for found that she was just a little less in pay than the men who worked in the same place in the company. This she did not know when she went into the pay interview shortly before. She should have been in the same place as they were. Had she been able to consult the tax website before she went to the pay interview, she would have been at the bottom of the conversation with the payer, could have said: " I know they have that salary, and I think it's fair that I'm getting up to them. And it didn't make the company money because it was one of the things that made her quit working there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u35	President. Thank you. A senator's excellent history of this fine language, which goes well with my view of these matters, that all of this is supposed to be open. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to ask you why. A senator to two very related things. I'd end up hanging on a case or something. A senator noted that in the introductions of a anticipated electronic tax file, or what it will be now, the person would always be allowed to know who had been looked up, especially in order to prevent potential abuse. I wanted to pray. A member of the Parliament is going to discuss the potential for abuse. It is fine if this method prevents it, but if he could explain a little more clearly what the potential misuse is, he would be able to do it. Online, though, I could now use a search engine to get that information, but I think I know why. A senator is well versed in this matter: How is the budget now for the printed page? Is it open, must be checked in separately? It is likely, then, that someone is being specifically looked up as a whole and that the change could lead to a lack of room for use. Not that I'm saying it's necessarily bad, but I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u36	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions. What abuse would it be to prevent a list of treatments? I think it may be more correct to say that this will be the case with people's concerns about misuse or fear that their pay information will go to someone they don't know. A similar trend is being made on national names. This is a backup character that often comes into this system so that you can't process too much information from it, that as a person, you should just turn it up and then, but when it comes to hardware processing and hammering these files, you have to specifically apply for it, and therefore some fences are put into the system so that it is not abused. But I think I share with the senator not to worry about this, it's something that's supposed to be rather bedridden. So we came to the printed file today, that's exactly the size of access. I simply recommend that the senator try sometime to report to the IRS when the records remain because they are added to their decompositions and some chairs and those are the taxes of all Icelanders, under which all the districts are under. Often, there are ten, twenty persons, and exchanges of pages, some looking up one and one; others have printed tablets, which receive information for even tens of individuals each time, and none of them are registered, so no one really knows how this file is used today. In that sense, it would be moving this into electronic forms with a defined access control improvement from personal protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u37	President. Thank you. A senator's answers are clear. It is certainly a bit of a drama when this takes place, perhaps one of many examples of out - of - date practices from the past that we have not been able to change. I'm not necessarily sure that we should know exactly how people intend to use this information in all cases because they may interfere with some innovation in the use, and I realize that, President, it is. A senator is not recommending that. It has been shown that people who work to get their numbers and scrap them together from here, from there, are very novel and original in their thinking about how to use them. I can see that this could open up to you. Hv. A senator faced opposition before what? paritaprevir A parable about the pay interview was discussed in the case of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who is not directly related to this proposal but because of it. A senator opened the door and I let myself go there. It turns toward a promise, perhaps the next question, " Is this the step, the next step, the steps, the steps, or any order, because it's normal for everyone to have these tables? ' Remuneration reduces the contractability of labor movements in order to fight together for improved benefits. Now, to some extent, I have become part of another psalm, the highest. President, but I couldn't sit around where it came up earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u38	A respectable president. I'm just gonna start by saying thank you. A senator for going to other psalms because I think it is very helpful to discuss the secret of pay. A staging list shows people's income, not their salary. People can have many jobs, they can be accepting a salary from here on. It's not divided up in a stress file. It's not going to be. Therefore, there is good reason to discuss how to increase the transparency in the workplace so that the salary will be seen there. There's something I'm assuming that the labor movement will work out in the near future. I think that's a bit mild when it comes to the present arrangement reflecting out - of - date practices. I just don't remember the last time I sat down to get the data and had a hnasy thick worm directory in my hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u39	We historians regularly do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u40	Yeah, I think I've had the last time with the photocopies in the college philosophy department, maybe the last one. In terms of not putting too high fences on them, the same is true of the other data that we open the access to; there is some clear and reasonable terms for those who want to work with the data, which in this case must also ensure a certain degree of personal protection for those in this database. In my transportation address, I mentioned that if the labor movement has access to and authority, now or just research journalists, it could work a lot from these data. You can look at things and work on the news that should be presented to the public from a list of pressures, other than these top lists published in the income papers and that will tell us nothing about the community as a whole. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u41	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill of a change in fish control law, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes, is the possibility of a coastal fishing. With me on the bill, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. 1st par. The bill reads: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. a number. 6 mg. Section 6. a law goes away. 2.g. Orders that the law will be valid this year on April 1. With the permission of a president, I'm going to refer directly to the report that says, "I'm going to say, "I'm going to go. " Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: This bill suggests that there will be an elimination of coastal fishing regulations in the laws on the management of fish fish that set the criteria not to engage in fishing Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and that a minister can by regulations prohibit coastal fishing on common holidays. Some experience has developed a new coastal fishing arrangement, which was introduced into the legislation on the control of fish that was approved at the World Council of 26 April 2018. In many ways, the beach fishing system is a successful arrangement. I remember that I was the vice president of the professional station when we were working this case. It was trying to work with the beach fishermen and, of course, we would have liked to have it different, at least had they wanted it completely different, and we in the Gang of the people have not understood these restrictions at all. It's really remarkable why you can't hunt Friday, Saturday, and Sundays like Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays. It is quite remarkable that the beach fishermen themselves are not allowed to choose the days set aside for them to hunt. This is beyond our understanding in the Gang of the People. In the summertime, as everyone knows, the climate has a significant impact on ports and the welcome income in the region. The last two coastal fishing periods have not, e.g. Unable to run the full resources available for coastal fishing. The total catch for coastal fishing during the summer of 2018 was 10,200 tons of uncut bottom fish. A total of 548 boats were involved in coastal fishing and became a total of 9,396 tons. Thus, 804 tons of liquid species were unexplored from that source at the time. The entire cod section of the season was 9,075 tons. Based on cohesion and average coastal fishing forces in the summer of 2018, the value of non-fished cod is estimated to have taken up to 200 million. K. The same is true when statistics for the 2019 coast fishing period are considered. Thus, the map for coastal fishing was 11,100 tons, growing from year to year, of unscrupulous bottom fish in pesky species. A total of 623 boats were in coastal fishing, showing that they had increased from year to year and became a total force of over 9,700 tons. Thus, at the end of the 2019 period, about 1,350 tons were unsuspected. According to information on the fishing lab's web, coastal fishing was almost exclusively cod, but everything caught nearly 9,170 tons of cod. The cost was over one third higher in the summer of 2019 than that of the previous year. If it is carefully estimated that the average price was 320 k/kg, it can be estimated that more than 400 million. K. The cod value has been unsaturated at the end of value of 2019. It's very sad, to say the least, because we don't need the will of our beach fishermen to get the water. It is sobering to consider not being able to make use of the available resources for coastal fishing. Many variables have been affected here, and natural labilitys are likely to gain weight in these substances. These include fishing and weather conditions. The current fish - control laws also place significant limits on the fishing capacity of the coast fishing fleet. These include only certain days of a week, as I was doing before, and that is in May, June, July, and August. We're talking, a respectable president, about 12 days a month, three days a week, and the beach fishermen themselves are not allowed to decide which three days of the week they're taking advantage of. It is as if they should be able to determine just how the days of their fishing work are likely to affect them. So far, we haven't had the power to decide how to make the ocean tomorrow. Might be the best weather on Friday, Saturday or Sunday. We here present a bill that is of no value but to adjust and meet our beach fishermen, and this would not cost our government's funds for not one dollar, but it could possibly result in the obtaining of resources, which, though distributed to the fish, would be useful and at the same time would be in our best interests, would it not? I'd say it was a significant improvement, and even though it's a small level of fairness in this regard, it matters. And I reiterate that it is quite amazing how much predestination is in this high hall, how we make our subjects sit and stand forever, even though it may be better at times that they get to stand when they thought so, instead of forcing them to sit down. In this case, I still haven't figured out these 12 days of a month, 48 days over the whole summer, all the season, 48 days, why in the world we don't put it to the beach fishermen themselves to decide what day they're going to use to hunt. I don't think it should be hard to get this case approved at the council, just not at all. I think we can all agree that we would like to at least the resources assigned for the fishing will be achieved, and the use of coastal fishermen will be fully used during the days that we have carefully distributed them. It will not be devastating for them to prevent them from attending the sea. The point is right. The job committee and the question is always about what the good committee will do, after we have received reviews and reviews to follow up the case before the Committee, whether it will be allowed to come here for Congress. As I have repeatedly pointed out to them, it is not the same as it happens, despite the fact that things are good and even cost nothing, and it doesn't even have to be arguing that you're expanding the bow and spending the taxpayers' money without our affording it. In this case, we are expected to increase the money to the state's wealth by giving Coastal fishermen a better chance to use their resources and hunt all their resources. If Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays are the good days this week, we believe that the movers and hopefully most of the rest of them are just probably making use of those days and respecting the knowledge of sailors and their experience in attendance. I really hope there's a second. and 3rd... and will be agreed and it will be done before a new season begins in summer so that these days, though few, can be used entirely by those who are skilled to evaluate when the sea is best supplied to and to those who need it most.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u42	President. I share them with what. to improve the coastal fishing system as much as possible. I was sitting right there. Work committees had happy memories when the coast fishing system was established, such as at the turn of the day. A senator rightly put it under loyal leadership. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. So I'm very open to any ideas about improving the system. I'm sure there's things you can do to improve the system and make it even more efficient and better for beach fishermen all over the country. I think, for example, so I talk out of my own breast, that not necessarily to make the same month all over the country is something we should think. In some places, the season begins earlier, elsewhere it ends later, etc. That is why I find the suggestion very interesting, even if I do not get laid. A professional committee and I will not deal with her there, but I will naturally monitor and participate in her work as a senator. I thought about it, and I'd like to ask. A senator said that this will almost without fail increase the resources that catch the fish: " What is behind it? ' Is it misunderstanding that the thought of not catching Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays has to do with, for example? because the fish markets are not open, so that they can affect the price of the fish? I ask to have a discussion about it, not because I think it should be banned, as it is done today, I say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter, and also for sharing jobs on the job committee with him, that was just when we were discussing this matter. But when we are talking about indiscriminately or not indiscriminately, it would likely profit us. Then it is based only on the fact that both of these years since we took up this new policy of coastal fishing that has not been achieved, and last year's earnings were neither more than 1,350 tons unscheduled at the end of the period, which was estimated to be up to 400 million. K. to the price of it. Whether these days are specially selected because they are not fish markets, i.e. Friday, Saturday and Sunday, I must acknowledge my ignorance in this regard. On the other hand, I would have thought that if there was a force in the land, the system would function to receive it and the market would not be closed. I wanted at least that. Believe it. It's actually one little step like a dog. A senator points out. There are so many things we need to look at. Are these the best months? May, June, July? August, September, what is the most appropriate month, and where? As I learned that in my earlier history, the weather is troubled, always, and not on the tip of calm. We could have this six months. I and the group of people would also like to add to coastal fishing and give further access to this practical channel, which is certainly not the one who will disrupt the life surrounding my country. I think these are the most wholesome fishing we can offer and in contrast to other things that we have at times called "abduction. " This is the first step, and I thank you for the discussion, I like it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u44	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yes, the talk is good, and it might be much more about the marine fishing system in general, for it may at times be forgotten when we are dealing with seafood, which is understandable in terms of differences in size. But I don't think that much is more important in many parts of the country than just beach fishing, which has brought about a new community of life, for example. Because this is called an unappreciative force, without any specific question or answer, it is fine to recall that when we were putting ourselves in the Coastal Fishing System or, rather, committed it to the changes made during this season, it was especially to the point of worrying about the lack of energy, i.e. that all the power was done too soon, rather. There we worked hard together to do so, me and the other. A senator and others, adding to the catch which was a precaution so that the sea fishing fleet could not come up in the middle of a season of fishing so that the fishing season would run out of fishing grounds so that it would take advantage of the entire season. It's fine to keep that in mind. Otherwise, I insist that it has been my understanding that we have seen these days, especially to reach the maximum prices in fish markets that are open in those days. And saying again that it is not necessarily my opinion that they have to ban fishing in other days, but I still wanted to draw it out in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. You're right. A senator points out that the coast is one of the most precious things we can give to our community, out into the little radios, into the fragile settlements that we watch all around the country after the exodus was placed on the table and after the fishing grounds disappeared from the settlements. We also observe that almost little or nothing is involved in the coastal waters in order to make it difficult to reach them. I see this more clearly during those days, these months, and the period that has been assigned to put it in the arms of the beach fishermen themselves. For example, when power cannot be reached, it is especially so that the sea could not be removed, such as for example. in the meeting summers, they simply came for days in a row that they could not go to sea. It just couldn't be done. It's not as if they can take the days with them and move them over, they're just gonna get lost. Or it may be that if we make such a move during the course of our life, they will be more inclined to try to go out into disturbing weathers that have not been particularly successful in picking up the sea. They have the knowledge, experience, ability, and certainty, much more than I do. But there we are really, as I say, taking one little step, fair steps, toward something that's good. At least that's how I feel about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u46	A respectable president. We're discussing the group's bill on a change in fish control law, a proposal for a beach fishing. There has been an amazing situation where fishing is banned on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays. You get, in effect, dumb about how people could have thought of this, and I began to think, " How did they find out? ' I was thinking that Fridays were chosen because a man's supposed to fast, on Saturday you were to take a bath, and on Sunday you were supposed to go to Mass. But it can't be that simple. Yet, this is incomprehensible because if we look at what it is, it's the weather that really matters. We are to trust those who do this fishing to do so in a way that is convenient for them, not what we here are suitable for. We are not taking the risk of having to go out into the weather, because it was not allowed to go when it was on Sunday. We've created quite a new word that sounds like episodes, and we even heard at Station 2 yesterday's Station, i.e. fracture risk based. Why have these settlements become fragile? Yes, when a person begins to explore broken - down settlements, it is usually because he has abandoned them. There's no saying goodbye. It's a little duet. And the only thing that the State or others have ever imagined is that they will be strengthened. You can do beer production or land production or anything but at the same time, the alcohol will explode outside, and you can't catch it. Okay, this is very good, let's get up rocking houses and landhouses and I don't know what and I don't know what and I show these tourists and others, but we're supposed to see them and trust the people in these little villages because they can go outside their yard and catch cods, catch fish. We have, for example. to give free beach fishing, hand fishing, e.g. four rolls a boat. It's an eco-friendly fishing, kind of the most eco-friendly thing we could do, and there's no danger, I think, of us wasting the waters in that way. This would greatly help those so - called fragile settlements that have already been created. Then there is absolute security. We are to make sure that, for safety's sake, we trust the fishermen who are in it to choose the best days. Whether the holidays are due to the fact that the fish market is not open, that's not an excuse, then just at the fish market. Many of these fishing settlements have shown remarkable ingenuity, and you can see that fish production and all kinds of fish are produced there, but what has depended on many of these settlements is that it is not regular fishing. That is why it has been so difficult for many settlements to maintain employment. This is what we're supposed to secure. We're supposed to make sure to return a great deal of the salutations that have been taken from these settlements both west, east, and north. These are the inhabited areas that have been able to provide over the years, but since then the food has been gathering on few hands, and the settlements are looking for wounds. Then we come to politicians, call them settlements, and we're going to try to figure out some other way to help them. In this case with the beach fishing, all the fish available have not been fished, and this is tragic. I would think that the main reason why this could not be achieved is because we set in these amazing days that cannot be caught. I hope that this bill will pass through, and I also sincerely hope that we will continue this discussion and take it to the next stage and discuss how to ensure that these broken places will be restored to their eating habits and can provide the fish that is outside their settlement, to their advantage and to the whole society. It tells itself that we should focus on this. It is time to return this greeting to the people who owned it. That's what I hope to be the next step.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u47	A respectable president. It's light and light. At 1st. 7. The new saying of the law shall be added, saying, To the book of the people shall it be. records of the birthplace of the child and the community of its first legal home. This law should already come true. The bill was previously submitted to a 149th legislature, was not delivered, and is now moved by some small changes. In response to transport and local government ministers on deck. 659 of the 148th legislature states that the birthplace of a child is the name of the country where birth takes place. There seems to be nothing vague or strange about it. A 2016 maternity registry report shows that 74.1% of all births were then in the Southnesia Medical Hospital, 9.8% at the University Hospital in Akureyri, 7.3% at the Western Institute of Health, 2.1% at the Southnesia Institute of Health, 1.5% at the Selofossi Health, 0.1% at the Southland Health Institute in the Western Islands, 0.9% at the Western Institute of Health, 1.9% at the National Institute of Health, 1.9% at the National Health at Nesborst, 0.3% at the destination, and 2.1% of birth. According to this, children are actually born mainly to eight rural communities in the country, and that is what is strange, for although the person is born there, it is not a local society but a place of birth. So this is about the need to keep the number of births in both clinics, where the baby is born exactly, and also in which group members of a child are first registered in a legal home. No matter where a mother needs to be looking to feed her baby, such a reflection will correctly reflect the origin of a child. Often, women need to travel long distances to attend maternity services. These include women in the Western Islands, almost without exception going to Reykjavík to give birth to their children, but only three children were born in the Western islands in 2017. This can be explained mainly because the age of birth in the Western Islands is called D1, i.e. a small delivery unit in a medical facility where midwives operate as well as medical doctors. There is no operating room and there is no operating surgeon or obstetrician. Although a child is born in Reykjavík because of making a birth service in the Western Islands, or perhaps a lack of maternity service in the Western Islands, it is a Western island that reflects that fact. To ensure further registration of a child's origin regardless of place of birth, the bill suggests that a national registry should include records of the birth status of a child and the community where a child is first registered in a legal home. It's light and light. The communities I spoke to would very much appreciate receiving these statistics because it gives historical evidence of how many children are added to the rural community each time and each year so that they can see the trend much better and accessible. The evidence that we have received in committees about the development of geographic laws is relatively inaccurate. This would make a lot of improvement and would be closer to what is really the birthplace of a child, but technically it is recorded elsewhere because of a lack of facilities. I don't think it's fair for the children who have their first legal home in another community and obviously are rural society, but not the place where they often need to move in badly needed to come into the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u48	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synopsis of Alexander's airport as a reserve airport for the Cheflavík, Reykjavík, Akureyri and Eglil Standard Airport. The traders with me in this matter are members of the Central Party, Anna Kolbrún, Árnadóttir of the Year, Bergþór Ólason, Birgir son of Þórarinsson, Gunnar Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishoff, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Villastein Sæmundsson. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concluded to hide a transport and rural government minister from making a thorough investigation of the options of making Alexander's airport in the south of the corner of the South Sea to a reserve airport for Cheflavour Airport, Brooklyn Airport, Akureyri Airport, and Liel's Airport. The secretary introduces the results of the survey as late as January 2020. In January 2020, the proposal will be passed to the Environment and Transport Committee and I trust the Commission to find some good day or month for the Minister to present the results of the resolution. A similar proposal has been proposed in one of four earlier Parliaments, in 144, 147, 148, and 149th Parliaments, but has not been established and has therefore come back again. I'm gonna go through the text for the report. The safety of transport, whether by means of land, sea, or air, must be assured in the best way. Today, there are four main airports in Iceland, Reykjavík, Cheflavour Airport, Eglish Airport, and Akureyri Airport. These airports play an important role in transport within the country and between countries as passenger and freight transport fields and as security equipment. The distances between these choices are few. Between Akureyri and Reykjavík, between Reykjavík and Eminence are some 390 miles [390 km] and about 650 miles [650 km] between Akureyri and Eglish positions about 265 miles [265 km]. This shows that the distance between Reykjavík and Eminence is quite some, and it was evident that when a gap in Eyjafjörður took its course, the only airport used and its importance was proved to be true at the same time. Between the sheep of the river and the Akureyri, the distance is only about 12 miles [120 km]. Between the Sheep's Wax and the city of Reykjavík are about 295 km. The city of the capital area and Southnes suffers from active volcano areas, such as the Blue Mountains and the Krísavík. The land is rising in Krísavík, and earthquakes are times in the regions that still call to question the state of transportation to and from the capital area, as well as from the country. A few days ago, news of land rise at Grindavik, in the Mountain of the Þorbjörn, and in that area was cut short, so Smokejanes is a very active volcano area. That's where the soda can come at any time. So it may be an important safety factor for the country and its guests that its transport safety is assured further. It is obvious that distances and travel distances vary significantly between Eglskot and Reykjavík on the other hand, with the Sea of Galilee and Reykjavík. There is an important airport in the North, especially as a result of increasing passenger flights within the country and abroad. In the same way, the L.A.P. is important to the East, and then the airport at Akureyri plays a key role in a medical flight. Alexander's airport is well - located where flight is good, the tide is wide, and there is little obstacle. The airport points north and south, which are also prevailing winds in those areas. Then the location of the field is favorable for snow. Data from Vega reports that the highway from the Sheep's Jar to Reykjavík has been closed for only 0.7 days a year since 2011, but at the same time, the highway from Eelsports to Reykjavík has been closed for 2.5 days a year on the south route rather than 9.7 days if the north route has left. It will also be noted that from a sheep's home to Reykjavík and to Akureyri, there is more than one way to go, so there is a chance if highway 1 closes. Clearly, then, the location of Alexander's airport is well viewed as moving abroad. Transporters feel that building up Alexander's airport as a reserve airport for Reykjavík and Keflavík could do much good. It is obvious then that such an airport will serve Akureyri and Egeils well as reserve airports and will ensure and trust in the important activities being run in connection with tourism and flights in general. Therefore, in view of this, it is directed to the minister of advance work and research to implement these ideas and is proposed to have a minister investigate the benefits of making Alexander's airport on the Sheepship of a rescue airport, Cheflavour-, Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Eglil Airport. A transport program is running a flight and flight plan, so it would be ideal for us to dust off this case and put it to work. When I gave this council proposal during the last assembly, there was a big debate here, which is just the best case, since words are first of all. At that time, there was a slight strain on airports on the land, Akureyri, Eglels, and/or Alexander's airport on a sheepbed, which is certainly not the point of making this suggestion, but, of course, they are very important, and they need their structure to continue as they are working. It's not for a single head or airport in any other location. When we are on the move, the flight of air during the discussion is often low because there would be a lot more discussion about air safety and transport. As noted in the report I read before, the geographic location on this airport, Alexander's airport, good, the beach is wide, far between the mountains, and the dominant direction from the north, so the airport is very comfortable with takeoff and landing. According to human tradition, there are very few places that you cannot land or take off at this place. It is also obvious that this is a big project. When a big project is attacked, it needs to start somewhere, and that's why we're going back to my category again. I have hoped that she will be well received on the environment and transport committee. As I said, the date has come out, and I trust the committee to find a good date to pressure the minister to complete this case. That is all I have to say for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u49	Madam President. I'm willing to thank you. paritaprevir Páll's Jónsson over giving this suggestion and endurance in repeating it. It may be said that a year for this kind of projection in the coastal region beyond what we have today, but we see a relatively small amount into the future, and circumstances may change from what we now know and from what we have at present. In my brief speech, I will come a little into it. The story of flying is a big part of our professional and cultural history in Iceland. It's got a glow, even excitement. From the beginning, the flight has fascinated both tail and drag, and many adventures have happened, some have been successful, and others have not. During the 1940's, it was a great time out in Iceland when passenger flights began in the 1940's. At that time, a road system was still highly primitive in many parts of the country. It was by the initiative of young superamores and optimists, and this is only since that time that the first pioneers have recently disappeared into the summer country. However, the project has continued, and the small spades that were single - motion sea airplanes produced empires on Icelandic scale, air routes, and Iceland's Airlines. Madam President. In the early history of the flight in Iceland, it was a sign of abuse. Initially, an airport was placed in the city's sand in 1949, which actually landed the first plane in 1938. There was a young man Agnar Kofoed-Hansen-Hansen who later became a pilot. Today, the city's sand is a smooth, vast sandy desert, which is healed largely at the bottom of the province of Tahlfjords, on the west side of the Red Sea. In other ways, when young pilots were sitting on the Great Sea, from there in the sky on their skiing machines in search of sight for a support of a crew, they were also connected with the flight. Last June through September, the government's long - term riverbed factories that lost the silhouette held this out. However, on a sheep's bed, on October 23, 1976, a nice airport took place. Then, in 1988, the barristers promoted great flight celebrations in a sheep's jar, which led to the baptism of Alexander's airport to the honor of Alexander the son of Jóhannesson, the university coach, and the aristocrat of airports in Iceland. He was raised in a sheep's jar and was actually a passenger on the first plane that landed there. It was when the Sulan landed in front of Villa Nova in a sheepfold in the summer of 1928. As noted earlier, during those times, roads were beginning in many parts of the country and slowliness, as well as the widespread lack of automobile property in the country. So people didn't shoot between the ceilings, as we do now. Coming between parts of the country in the air was a revolution. This used the locals in Théoman's pride. In 1949, a planned flight began from the Sea of Galilee, thus having over 60 years of history. The subsequent years, as we have seen, have proved to be difficult to maintain in the light of the changed times and better transportation to land. Last of all, an attempt to plan a flight to a sheephouse was made at the beginning of December 2017 as a six - year experiment project. What a joy it was when the flight began again! The government gave money on the project, but, of course, this route had not been supported. An effort was made to get companies, partners, and institutions in the northern part of the West to support the project by buying tickets or subsidies to their members, but this was not enough. The flight stopped after this test period, about the middle of 2018, and it's been down since then. The circumstances for flying in the sheep's jar are the same as found in the case of the 1st messenger of this proposal all the best, and the course is well placed in the countryside. Although the basis for domestic flight is sick at this time, it may change in the near future. There is much work to do to close no possibilities for this transport. It is noteworthy that the French Academy of Keisis has shown a keen interest in Alexander's airport and a new field for teaching and training. In the spring of spring, the airline Academy had made a special deal at the Northern Railway School to train students in a professional training course at Alexander's airport. This can be done in a position to build up facilities for school, accommodations, etc. It is expected that a certain number of students will stay in the field and teach machines will generally be at the airport, even around the year. It is only a matter of hearing that both students and teachers are pleased with this situation, both the inside and the location of the study in the province of Skavein. There are ideal circumstances for effective flight training, according to school managers. It's one chance. We can see a little further into the future, but it is possible to imagine that the development of tourism will be the most convenient way for tourists and visitors, even far away, to get right into the area. We know, of course, that the idea of an island is Gosenland for those who both want to see natural beauty and to enter a historic environment. We then move faster into the new technological age, with energy exchanges, and it can be assumed that in less than ten years, planes will be in existence, powered by electricity, and commercial workforce. There are still new opportunities for passengers in the air. Madam President. It is suggested that Alexander's airport be assigned to a reserve zone for the predefined airports as suggested in the proposal of the 1st carrier, that the airport be defined as part of a base net in Iceland's airport. There is now a proposal for the Grinch tunnel between the land of Tahlf and the Eyjafjörður. With their appearance, this option becomes even more real and will provide transportation beyond and beyond, making this part of the country better, and making it a unit, e.g. Cut off the route from the Sea of Galilee to Akureyri by at least 20 miles and there'll be a good full wound road. Madam President. It is important that we breathe deeply, avoid burning bridges in the matter of this transportation, make sure we maintain humanization where possible. It contains security for the inhabitants of nearby settlements, and it also covers a wide range of applications, just as has only been killed, and even more people may be written in the clouds, although the writing may be rather indistinguishable yet, but it will be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u50	Madam President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize criminal treatment laws, No. 88/2008, with subsequent changes, we forbid video and audio recordings in courthouses. In addition to this, the carriers are sled. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Birgir Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Sigurður Jónsson. This bill was first submitted to a 141. This is now presented in a number of adjustments in the light of the law of No. 76/209, change in civil treatment laws, criminal treatment laws and other laws relating to handling procedures and other matters. I'd like to, Madam President, explain to you what this change of law is. It says here in one of the original chapters of the bill, by permission of a president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. mg 1 1. The law says: It is not permitted for courts to record or take pictures in Congress or courthouses. At the same time, it is forbidden to stream a sound or image from a council or report what a defendant or witness will report during the hearing. A judge can give an exception from a ban on any of the above, as it is careful that films and audio recordings will not be directed at judicial hearings without their consent. If audio recordings or images have been recorded in the council without the permission of a judge, it is forbidden to publish audio recordings or images. The same applies to the publication of the audio and image updates of the verbal presentation handled by the court. Videos and audio recordings of defendants, violations, or witnesses are also prohibited from going to courthouse or without their consent. So it's an expansion of a range of 1 mg. 1 1. Acting on criminal treatment, that there are neither films nor sounds of stakeholders coming to courthouses nor from that without their consent. This law is an example of Norwegian and Danish. The decision is not intended to cover shoots and audio recordings carried out by the court itself, and it includes recordings that are natural in the handling of the court, whether it is a recording of evidence and the routine use of security cameras. Then it is assumed that a judge can authorize a special photo shoot and audio recording, including recordings that do not involve the parties of a case that is in the courthouse on the issue. Here we can think of a photo shoot for general hearings about the court or interview with a judge, etc. Madam President. Why is the bill presented? Yes, it is because the films we see and even audio recordings made in and at court houses are particularly directed to those who are going there because of their role. There may be witnesses, as we have seen here. There may be suspects and/or accused persons. This can be very burdensome for those who are, and I repeat the signs of the defendants, they are subject to the fact that they are taken pictures of them on the way to court or courthouse. They may interfere with their personal life, and this can be harmful to those who, for example, are affected. Then he shows himself innocent. It may be that public opinion has developed a picture of his being guilty. The other side of the same coin is that those who have repeatedly committed crimes and have repeatedly been punished, it appears to have become some sort of ◯status ◯for such persons to be published by the pictures they are on their way to a courthouse or since. This has been seen for a very long time. One poem in such images that is already published in the Icelandic media, e.g. On television, the face of law enforcement is visible. The film should then in itself be confused in that it is impossible to identify the law enforcement officers who are moving, witnesses, or others between places and court. At one time when the one here, the chairman of this matter, prepared it for the first time, I remember that the eloquent lawyers were very eager to see that this law would be given them. This, however, caused little interest in the press class and hope. But now, Madam President, as we all know, we are set up for cameras and recordings almost wherever we are, public citizens of the country. This may be an attempt to minimize the challenge of its own, but may I say, aggressive reporting that is now being carried out. It's not only taken a picture of someone, and it appears in a magazine the following day or the following day, it's almost live, on a website or on a larger news board. I reiterate that such talk can be dramatic and burdensome to those who suffer it. If we were to weigh together the right kind of news and information about anything and the rights of those who are subject to privacy and respect for their character, at least the person here would accept the latter. And I say again that we know examples that human privacy and life have been compromised because they have been photographed in such an environment. I testify again that in Danish courts the principle is that audio recordings or shoots are banned and also films in court buildings, except by special permission. National courts have much to do with Danish rules. Video recordings and recordings in criminal records are forbidden, and it is also forbidden to record or take photos of the defendant on the way to or from Congress or courthouse where Congress is being held. The principle is, as we know, that a council is to be held in the hearing, as it were. Laws on Prosecution, No. 88/2008. That rule is not restricted by banning films of the case into the courthouse or close to it as usual in Denmark and Norway. The limitation taken in the bill does not go too close to the principle of open assembly, since there is no limit to the possibility of media or others to attend council and to follow the procedure there. On the contrary, access will continue, and the media will be free to observe and report the progress of judicial cases. It is also not to increase the authority of a judge to order that a council stand before closed doors. This is in very short terms, Madam President, a report on what the bill is, what its purpose is, and what the need is for them to be taken for material treatment at the council, such as this, and to be treated carefully on a committee, a World Health Committee and Education Committee, I presume, and to be returned to the chamber payment. I reiterate that by the transfer of this case, the media coverage of judicial matters is not to be reduced except in this respect for the private life of those who have a hearing in court, whether as witnesses or as accused or suspected. Therefore, I wish and expect the bill to be treated carefully by a committee, and it will come after such a crossing back here in the conference hall for a release.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u51	V.E.G. President. I've wanted to be put on the rosary on this matter, but I'd like to have a word for it. A senator to get a better explanation of certain points before I discuss the matter. I have to say, there are some things here that I don't quite understand what would be done. There's a good way to blame me, not the bill, but I wanted to get it right from the bottom of my head. A senator would agree that if this legal bill succeeds, it is forbidden to be films and audio recordings of defendants, penances, or witnesses without their consent, as stated in the final hearing of Article 1. A judge can give an exception from the ban on all of the above, says in the bill that targets the audio recordings, members of the council, or courthouses, but does it cover the last sentence in this article? Can a judge also give an exception? I'm asking for curiosity. Or is it that according to this, the defendant can always have a crucial decision whether or not to be allowed? I'll do it, I can see that time is running out, but I'll get in on it in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u52	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. It is true that, if it was blurred in a story talk, the exception of a ban refers to what happens in the court itself if a judge is saying to record a sound and a picture of the proceedings, as follows, that the making of photographs and recordings will not be directed at judicial hearings without their consent. On the other hand, when men are on their way to and from court office, shoots and audio recordings will be banned according to this bill. Again, I reiterate that it has been planned because transporter officials feel that it could have an adverse effect on the person involved. If it's about two types of interests. " On the one hand, the interests of those who bring the news and the interests of public information to us are the interests of those who are personal and actors in events, if I can put it that way, it is our belief and certain that it may be a burden to such ones that it is presented in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u53	President. Thank you. A senator for explaining this better to me. There are two more things I want to understand, and there are other things that are related to what we were discussing here. Do I correctly understand that this applies not only to the accused but also to the fact that the person has been condemned and has been judged guilty? The other thing is the Danish law that I would present in the original languages if I trusted in it with the right accent. Hv. A member of the council noted that films and audio recordings of the defendants, violations, or witnesses were also prohibited from coming to court or without their consent. I wondered how this project could be. How far does this prohibition go? For example, when is a person on his way to the city of Reykjavík? There's so much trouble around here. Is it in the whole Lullar Square? If I ever get hit with that collar, when am I no longer going from the courthouse to my house or wherever you go in that situation? I'm not turning out, I take it out, I really want to understand the procedure. Because it is referred to in the Danish Court law, I specifically ask how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u54	Madam President. According to the knowledge I have in business in the province of Reykjavík, the defendants are usually moved to the back door and are not coming to the court side, for example. In many lands, those who have business addresss in courthouses, especially those who are accused, suspected, and/or convicted, are brought into the house under carpiters, so that people are not as vulnerable abroad as they are because the province of Reykjavík is in an old bank. They naturally wanted to have a good access to that bank. As for the Lullaby Square, if you are a witness according to this, there will be no pictures of him going to the courthouse unless he or she permit it yourself or herself. Hv. A senator is a former journalist, but not me, so he may be better able to see how far from the field journalists start trying to get his own place. I'm not quite aware of that, but I'm going to go to the courthouse and some distance from there, when it's clear that, for example. Witnessing in an important matter or something that insinuates its curiosity and attention, if unquestionably, so that it has the right to be free of photographs of its person except to grant permission to do so. I can't exactly get into this because it doesn't have a meter system. [[The president calls.]] I say again, the defendants usually go around the back door to the state, and it's usually harder for cameramen to get to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u55	President. I'm most true to your stories thinking about this bill to the law that's being presented here. Although I pretend to understand the feelings behind my back, at least sometimes I fear the spirit presented here. Before the hearing, you have to state that there is a need to read an answer that I was referring to. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, the first official of the case, just now to understand some of my speculations. On the one hand, they deal with the reality of the project, which may now be less difficult, you can always find out, and on the other hand, that the spirit I feel will appear here. Although I say that the project is smaller, it is important that we see practical ways in which we deal with the issues discussed here. It says, by permission of the President: (b) What questions might we ask ourselves? ▪ In addition, shoots and audio recordings of defendants, penances, or witnesses may be allowed to go to courthouses, or without their consent. I had a word about what I said. A carrier just about how far this goes and it's not just in the air. It so happens that it is a considerable right for people to take photographs almost anywhere, unless there is a special restriction on it and one of the largest, if not the largest, regional judgment of the land is by Sluts Square. I'll walk there at least. Twice every day, with a lot of tourists taking pictures. Would they all be breaking a law if their mobile phones turned to the city of Reykjavík and any of those listed here were on their way to or from the court? Would I be breaking the law if I took of myself, myself, self-important as I am, and behind me would any of the people mentioned here be? This isn't a twist, Mr. President. To some extent, I feel that this brings up the difficulty in this matter, not only in the process, but also in the spirit in it, and it may be the one who is more serious than anything. The report, Mr. President, describes the principle that Congress should be subject to hearing sounds, and this rule will not be impaired with the approval of the bill. I'm going to allow myself to disagree, and I'm going to allow myself to disagree because it's placed in the hands of a person and the players of all people in these matters whether pictures or audio recordings will be taken, put only into their hands, then the principle that a council shall be subject to hearing. That rule has never been in my mind, although I have been working as a journalist for a long time, turning to the media. It has been most important, and perhaps primarily to ensure that the trial that humans may be involved is open to all. It's all about, well, shall I use the flannel of the little man? For example, if a person is all open, he can always trust him. The more we close, the greater the risk that what goes on behind closed doors is not necessarily in favour of individuals but of the system. That's the general principle I have. Even more strongly, I believe that unless it is specifically forbidden, everything in general should be open. That is why I was not particularly impressed with recent legal adjustments, although I had supported them, who changed the way the media told of the flow trial and season reports. The key is that the system of judgment is as open as possible. This is a fair thing for citizens to do, for it guarantees better their rights, that they are not being tried behind closed doors. I'm not saying that that means they don't get fair lawsuits at all. In general, however, the more open they are, the more they make sure that everything is transparent, and everyone sees that this is done in a natural and just way to everyone. Then, President, I've worked long as a journalist, and I must say that sometimes--and now I'm not accusing anyone in this room, not even any of the publishers of this case--I feel that the discussion of the press and the hearing about the hearings is in order to be discussed in some way for the press and the press themselves. Not at all. The press and the press play an incredibly important role. They only report that it is newsworthy. It's very simple. That's why I'm extremely ill at heart with the thought that this is all forbidden unless it's permitted, a judge can give an exception. Certainly it is in the law today when it comes to audio and video recordings in the Senate itself. I would have wanted to turn it around. The fact that something is open and forbidden in certain circumstances means that it needs to be reasoned specifically why it is forbidden. That can be a very easy thing to do. A sensitive case rests. There are already certain cases that appear in the court where there are always guarantees that all of this is forbidden. But it needs to be reasoned. It's about a certain attitude, that, rather than forbid anything unless specifically permitted, anything is allowed unless it is specifically forbidden. This guarantees this open society we're all supposed to pursue. And the other one here is added. It is specially placed in the hands e.g. The defendants, whether they are photographed or not, cannot even make any effect on them, as noted in my answers to the back of the day. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. This may well be true in some lands around us. I don't know the story, how far back it goes, what the debates are in those countries. But the spirit that is presented here gives me a bad feeling of being a breath of the movement that I feel is becoming increasingly evident, especially in the Western world, perhaps just because I'm more aware of it, in the sense that it has to be shut down specifically, that you have to hold on to things unless a special license is necessary to let go and open. I'd like to keep it backwards, have everything open unless specific circumstances require it to be banned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech, which caught me off guard. It is very healthy and normal for us to do what is right. Perhaps a senator disagrees about the motives of this bill. Hv. A senator earlier said that journalists and reporters are not getting information, that's right. They're gathering information to sell magazines, increase their impact, and view news agencies for which they represent, which are the most natural thing in the world. The question, however, is about something else, and that is where we are. A senator may disagree because he speaks of trying to shut down. No, it's not closing. These are the interests of those who are in court for any reason, whether they are witnesses, defendants, or anything else, above what has been done. The report shows that witnesses in judicial cases have tried to avoid witnessing because they expect pictures to appear on the front pages of a newspaper or on TV. That's what it's all about. I appreciate it very much that we do what we do. A senator is at odds with this interest, what interests we believe are greater. Is it those who are subjected to the harassment, some of which are needy willies? Or it is the right of those at home to read magazines or something like that to know exactly who is on the road and to get a picture of the person from the door of a courthouse to the hall, etc. and that they're following a camera all that way? [[The president calls.]] That's what I think. A senator, that the interests of those who have these things come beyond this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u57	President. The same reason is that films can be banned everywhere unless a specific license is granted. I haven't given any special clearance that I'm here on the air or that there are times when photographers are standing up and taking pictures of me. With a little reason. A senator can look at the private space - and we are approaching very philosophical questions. This in itself is a very interesting discussion, where private space ends and the public space begins. However, we cannot pretend that we are in a void. My problems with not taking pictures of people in and out of the house at the busyest place in the city of Reykjavík were all right. You see, we don't live in a void. All of them worry each other. A senator who I think in many respects is justified, as I entered into my case, that I understand in some of the background, may be achieved by a judge's simply having the right to make this decision. It is simply possible to ask for. The danger that can develop when, unless permitted, is that it will not be allowed. News is written with various motives, Mr. President. I'm sure a lot of news is being written right now, which will only result in what most people read and can sell more advertisements. Much news, however, is written on the news report that this is relevant to society. And the right to do so is quite holy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u58	Madam President. That's the difference between us. A senator in front of cameras at the General Assembly Hall that we seek to be here, knowing that all the meetings of the Generals are made public at the time of their appointment. However, we have nothing to say if we are either in the role of a suspect, in the role of a witness, or for other reasons that we need to participate in a judicial hearing, whether or not we are taken pictures. This violates our personal rights in that way because we do not choose to be there. If we're accused, it's probably because we've been wrong. If we are witnesses, it is because we are called to court, not because we choose to be there, as we choose to be here. This is a fundamental difference. I like what you're doing, too. A senator who does not look as forward or forward as we who carry this bill because nothing is more like that. A senator believes that the city of Reykjavík will be forever on the corner of Savile Street and East Street. Not necessarily. There's been talk of it many times, at least at my time, so I remember that this place is not suitable for courthouses. We've got courthouses all over the country. If I remember correctly, there's one thing on the street of Akureyri, and I can't even remember if it's possible to find out exactly what's in front of it. But these are the circumstances we have created, and they are not to be bitten by those who are relevant, whether they are blowless or have a suspect's rights or are meant to be accused. The indifference we create is not to be taken up against them, at all. Then I ask because of what. A senator said that the public was entitled to this information: Does the public have anything special to say about hvort Jón Jonsson eða Jóna is called as a witness in some criminal case, if they do not necessarily want to give a witness under such circumstances? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What right does the public necessarily have beyond their rights in the matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u59	President. Hv. A senator is particularly good at running out and south on a case and putting himself in individual sentences and acting as if they were important to him, as if the fact that the County Court of Reykjavík is in Luskur Square, which is a very minor factor in this matter. I went well over the fact that I chose that office at random, because I could almost point it out of the window. It doesn't matter where the districts are. They are, however, in public space. That's the way it is. Prescientity or not, Mr. President, to some extent, can be spoken of foreview, I don't think, actually, in the location of specific activities. But as far as it goes, it's not necessarily my opinion or my opinion. A member of the general public for which journalists can be consulted. In some ways it is also only to watch the news of judgments, e.g. in the province of Reykjavík, and on the right of journalists to discuss certain issues, even if they do not have someone to do so even if they have something for the common people. That's how it happens very often, huh? Senator. Many who sit in this hall find that the news of them, both here and in private, has no business with the public. It's just not their saying about it. That's why we have a whole system. Again, Mr President, because of what. A senator prefers not to hear all the things I say: all the worries and anxieties. A senator has mentioned such matters as If there is an innocent witness that enters the Hall Hall, we may be able to show up by a judge's ability to forbid it. [[The president calls.]] But, hey. A senator does not seem to see the fundamental difference between banning something, but may be allowed and allowing something, but it can be banned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u60	A respectable president. An interesting discussion of what is farsighted and not thrown back and forth is a remarkable one. Especially remarkable where the plunger ended in talk. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. But I wanted to quote a few words. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér, who generally said open-label. Linked to this discussion, just briefly, I wanted to link this matter to other topics. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has repeatedly suggested: Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Wrench Committees of the World usually open.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u61	Madam President. I am pleased with this discussion. But it's evolved, so we're not, I believe, comparing apples and apples. We're comparing apples with an metal man or something. I still feel that there's some misunderstanding involved. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér. He has said that many members of Congress do not feel that they are to be photographed where and here. Then I say again, The assembly chose to be members of the assembly, and they sought it, and they supported it. [[Up front.]] I don't know that a criminal witness would have sought to be a criminal witness. And just like what we're doing. Of course, when members of the council seek public office, we realize that before starting a course of action, our lives are about to change. However, a certain man or woman in a town called to witness in court has not chosen to be called upon to witness in court. Many feel very uncomfortable going into the court, just over the head to be there. I can understand that feeling and what they will think if they encounter countless lenses on their way in and out. We are in itself in the foundation, that I think, discussing the difference between the right of people to private life and the right of others to know about people's private life. Then I say again, people who have not chosen to be in a flash but are drawn into the projection have this right in my opinion. People who have, on the other hand, chosen the scene of exposure, have sought to be there, and some have had their wishes fulfilled, are only in my opinion, Madam President, in a situation quite different from those who have not chosen the task of becoming, for example. witness. And I'm not going to say it now, and I don't think I'm going to think that men who are accused of a case would have chosen that. Various things happen to humans in life, and there are reasons why humans break down laws. I don't quite see in my hand that since someone has sinned against the law, his face or person is necessarily relevant, especially while he's a defendant and/or a suspect, I'm not talking about the person being so innocent after all. He's brought as a defendant in a court of law and he's walking out a free man, i.e. ... innocent. That's why I don't quite understand, and I bet it's mutual as if I hear it. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, he doesn't seem to understand what I'm going on and I don't quite understand what he's going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u62	...a disagreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u63	The question, in my mind, is primarily about the fact that people's personal life is respected and that people's privacy is not very relevant in news classes or on the front page if people don't want it to go there. However, the collection of judgment is open and all of this. Here at the council, for example. very many who have spoken very much, that they should not diminish the joy of punishment for minor offenses. It is also punishable, Madam President, by the fact that photos are published by someone when you are going to courthouse, and I don't talk about it if you're innocent. There I am, Madam President, not only speaking out into the air, I'm talking about this because experienced lawyers with decades of legal experience have pointed out this fact of men coming to courthouses and then even proving innocent, that this has been a life market for many of them since then. It may be such a thing that is also being taken care of in this regard, reducing the risk of it happening. I have to tell you, too. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear that it is not in my mind to be at a hearing in a courthouse or at a hearing. But maybe it's just me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u64	Not even a board of administrations and monitoring committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u65	- Not even there. True, humans are naturally bound by rules in the field of evil behavior that have at times failed to maintain, so that all sorts of offenses occur anywhere, even in this Assembly Hall and its connection. It's just that way. However, it may not necessarily be that those who have fallen into transgression here or somewhere else are being pursued either in the way or in the aim of following their guilt or something like that, absolutely not. We're gonna go for a second. Congress officials have chosen to be in the light of this light, but those who commit crimes and what they do but those who are called to witness in judicial matters are not there simply because they want to or especially want to do so. That's the big difference. That's why I can't see, but that's just normal because I and e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé doesn't agree that this bill is shutting down some rights that either the press and/or the public have information. Far from it! It is simply taking a similar approach to that of our neighbors, who are very often compared in many respects and who have received much from them both in the structure of laws and rights and regulations. These images and audio recordings are simply not allowed. Now I'm going to say again what I said in my background but may not be clear enough, that now there are cameras and devices that are much more sensitive than they used to be, and that is, e.g. to include a report that may be able to distribute pictures of court case documents because they are well - mannered. So there are some things to look at in this regard. But in my mind, and I think most of the people of this matter simply revolve around the rights of those who are relevant in court, willing and/or needy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u66	A respectable president. I realize very well that there are two opposing views here. On the one hand, there is definitely the viewpoint described in this bill, but there is also the second view as well. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé described this as a form of misuse of the closed process, which is possible, too. Then we are talking about two possibilities that vary, and it's very difficult to prove or to say which weight, when it all comes down to it. Granted, a closed space can also be a threat to witnesses if the person you are dealing with is one who controls the closed space. But what I want to say about this, just a simple example, is about the media and the professional I see at least there. I don't remember one example, and in a short search, I don't see one example of being piled up by the witnesses in the media. It's simply professional media that plays in there. They can take pictures of witnesses and print them back and forth, but they don't. At least I don't remember it being a problem. After all, open access is generally seen in our advantage and in the support it provides the authority, the judiciary, and that it is available to all because there is also a potential for corruption that we need to worry about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u67	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, as I understand it. I think there's one basic problem in a case. A senator says that with this bill, some power is being placed in place and that it promotes power. On the contrary, the person of those who for any reason are being protected into court. There is nothing to protect the court or the judge. It is to protect the interests of those who have a legal issue, either as witnesses or as defendants or as well - trained experts or as such. It is simply to protect their interests from being exposed to the distribution of images or audio elements of them when they are in these activities. In this respect, I do not fully understand the senator because it is far from being placed in any power or increasing the authority of the courts by this convention. However, it is perfectly correct. A senator said earlier, and I completely agree with him in that, that we are talking about interests that work. It is up to us here to determine in some way, even to accept or eliminate this case, i.e. Whose interests we believe are greater. Is this the right to private life, to those who are relevant in court, or to the rights of those who write and sell magazines and/or to the rights of those who read news on these same events? Which interests outweigh? This bill, in itself, answers that question, about the attitude of those who take it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u68	A respectable president. The protection and protection of the judges is also protected by opening the bioavailability. There they will claim their cause, or they will carry their defense without means, or they will be given to the other person, who can offer it in another way. It is possible to refer directly to the exact court defense in a much easier way if the bioavailability is opened. Indeed, they are present for this anxiety. A senator points out. However, there is also protection in being able to make a complete defense without anyone standing in the way of it. After all, it's just a matter of evaluating two things and evaluating which court protects more. I think it's the opening of the bioavailability, at least in the present system. I think there's a reason why it's there, rather than anywhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u69	Madam President. I understand that some scientist in a town found that men with my body shape were not particularly bright, and I suppose I can now confirm that in this discussion. I have to admit, I didn't quite understand that. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson took it here because this is not about human defense or where they carry it or under what circumstances. It's about the private life of those who have the business of a court of law, all the parties, that they have the right to do and from the court without being taken of that picture or sound. What happens next in the court? There is the defense. It's not going in the hallway. She's not going in front of a courthouse either. She's going in the court. That's why I don't quite understand. But as I say, I have to write it on what I mentioned in the beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-04-57.u70	President. Me and what. The first messenger of this matter disagrees with the basics of the matter. That doesn't mean I don't understand him. I think I've twice said here in Ponna that I understand the motivation behind this. A person may disagree even if he or she understands motives. It's been an interesting discussion of many things, under my grade, but I will not deport myself and any more that have been reported here, especially when I'm looking at the members of the council. I am fully aware of the difference between standing here as an elected general or being in court. On the other hand, members of Congress, many of them, have had strong opinions on how they are dealt with in their private lives, on the banks of their town, on vacation vacations, anywhere. There's a body there, Mr. President. In this discussion, there have been some phrases that reveal a profound difference of opinion. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson said earlier, and I wrote after him, that people's privacy is not a subject on the front page if they don't want it. This may at first prove to be extremely welcome, or what? I'm not sure any of the vents have chosen to be on the front page of a magazine, so I'll take an example. If I rob a car and drive drunk on a lamp post, I'm not sure I choose it specifically to be on the front page of a magazine. But my choice may not be the main thing. Shall we take a smaller example? Should we take a picture at a national level? A thousand people in the box, of whom 40 are detectable, are placed on the cover of a magazine picture of people, screaming, even picking on their noses, on the front page of a newspaper? We have, Mr. President, a number of cases where this situation has been handled. It's interesting to hear that there's something wrong. paritaprevir Sæmundsson feels this really is what he is, and it's this spirit that I've chosen to be in this case that I feel is confirmed here during the discussion. Hv. A member of the body speaks of this as being about the rights of those who have a legal issue but who have no answer to why it cannot be guaranteed by a judge simply forbidding it when it is considered necessary. Nothing has a word. A senator took steps to do so. I'm going to say that I feel like I'm being drawn up by that picture. A senator's saying that going to court in some business is such a disgrace that it must just never happen. A lot of witnesses volunteer themselves. Some are called. [[Up front.]] It should be the most natural thing in the world to help with the progress of the cases within the legal system. However, there may be situations where, for some reason, personal, emotional, someone, if a witness does not have open doors, visual contact, or anything else. Then it should be possible to ask for it. In it is the fundamental difference I'd like to say is that I've been here to be here, but I've never had. The first carrier entered it, the fundamental difference between forbidding or closing, that it is permitted to open it, or that something is allowed, but it may be forbidden.
