ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u1	Mr. President. This is not the first time that a similar request is directed to the minister, but it is worthy of my review. Although tourism is at present much low, there is no doubt that the growth that has taken place in the following article has been a prelude to the economy and has added to our quality of life. It is possible that although the distribution of tourists was less than equal to that of the country, the positive effects of tourism around our country can be seen. In the circumstances we now live in, we have the opportunity to discuss how travel services we want to live in this country. There is a wide variety of jobs, and this time I want to talk about an important profession within it, our guides. To me, it is time for that class to be exalted by legalizing the job vow guide. In my opinion, it is primarily about the quality of the ministry and that those who work in this article do so on an equal basis and the same requirements. We haven't defined the phenomenon as a guide, and I think it's worth considering whether the concept can be defined. We know that there is a European standard for guidance on conduct studies that we have agreed on but not on such guidance. In response to a query as a question. A member of my council, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, had at the highest level. A minister of two Parliaments ago or so spoke of the highest order. Minister to minister, including about the Vatican and if it could be introduced in any other way. Of course, that has not been done, and I agree that it is possible to wonder whether a shortcut can be made to those who have been guided for many years, perhaps been in their territory, but not to be educated. Perhaps a shortcut could be made. When it comes to the measures we've tried to make, it's not that legislation would necessarily matter there, but it might be. Travel is the resource resource and the resource we use in the tourist business in Iceland is our nature. All resources require correct skills and should be handled wisely with sustainable thinking. In view of this, I believe it is very important that those working in Iceland introduce themselves to the natural world, including the natural world. In the absence of adequate knowledge, environmental and environmental control is not likely to occur. That knowledge is as important as knowledge of the nation's history and culture. Many other countries have followed along with a foreign guide who comes to them, and I ask the highest. In addition to whether there is a reason for having an Icelandic guide then granted the rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u2	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry on issues that have been discussed for a long time and regularly appears in the field of the council. Like a snooze. A senator mentioned I've answered a question about a similar subject before, the last oral inquiry of which. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Icef, February of 2019, about the education of guides and the protection of their professional names, and before the written inquiry of all. paritaprevir Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, Jacob's, was a guide in June 2017. My position is in short, to be said, unchanged since then, i.e. I don't think it's a good idea to protect the job guide, but I'm gonna go over it a little bit more on what I'm building that food. Of course, it is very important to ensure the best quality of tourism and the safety of tourists. This is in line with the emphasis of Vetera in travel services worked in recent years. A new view of the future and the guidance of Icelandic tourism to the year 2030 also highlights professionalism, quality, and security. She worked together with a country partner and the article, laying the foundation for a new work programme in progress of 2020-202025. I believe that there may be other ways to achieve more quality, security, and environmental goals than legal protection of the work name of guides. Important steps have been taken in recent years, e.g. When new travel laws went into effect on January 1, 2018, according to them, all who conduct organized trips within the Icelandic region, foreign countries are obliged to set up security plans for such trips and update themselves regularly. It says that safety programmes consist of risk assessments, protocols, management plans and incident reports. The risk assessment should be based on an assessment of the risk factors. Selection of employees, such as guides. In practical procedures that take into account risk assessment, including you will find out the experience, knowledge and skills of travelling workers. As shown in the bill's report, these directives are designed to promote increased consumer protection and safety of tourists as well as to increase the tradefulness of tourism activities. Then, in 2017, the facility for travel services was established, which is the cooperation of the labour market partners, educational workers and the government on overall solutions and improvements to improve the ability and professional workers in tourism in Iceland, to the unnamed quality and environment of the Vatican, which is being reviewed in repeated reviews. Of course, my Ministry will continue to work on these and other projects that will help improve security, quality, environmental protection, and consumer protection in tourism. The main reason why I don't think that the legal right to the job guide is that I don't think that it involves such benefits to the community in general or to tourists in particular that it justifies the decline of professional freedoms within it and, in addition, I think that I can achieve good goals in a more balanced way without compromising it and creating an extensive organisation outside licenses, surveillance and penalties. I think it would be preferable. In general, I find it easier to meet the company requirements than the individual, i.e. to register in their type of recreation travel, to require them to have appropriate safety programmes and to follow up and to be monitored. That's how it is, for example. In New Zealand, which is the destination which makes much of a career and adventure. Besides, I don't think it's impossible to qualify for guides when it's about safety, e.g. In a earth - wide guidance or other form of guidance that requires special caution and knowledge in a local way. About a question why. As one of Jehovah's Witnesses put it, I feel that such requirements can be justified only in a safe way. In many parts of the world, there have been reports between popular guides, hikers, and mountain guides. Such an arrangement might also be considered on the land, but with increasing variety of recreation, there has truly been an increasing growth in the specialized direction of the tour work. Here, however, you need to be careful about the equality issues between those working for domestic and foreign parties. As I mentioned, we are on the basis of the future vision and fairness of Icelandic tourism to the year 2030 to perform special measures and I think it certainly comes as a consideration and it has been discussed in what ways it is possible to promote quality, safety, and professionalism when it comes to these aspects of the tourism service which are certainly important both to protect the safety of the tourists themselves, to protect nature, to secure the quality of the visitors, and to be a very valuable and important component of the tourism services. I just still believe that these factors can be achieved without specifically protecting the job vow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u3	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answers. I can agree with her in many ways, yet I do not agree with everything, so I ask: Is there really something that actually stands in the way of the work's protection? The evidence presented here by the minister is that the benefits would not necessarily be clear for everyone. Given the emphasis we put on education in general in Iceland, we feel that we are preparing more qualified individuals for certain jobs, and I feel that this must be here too. As I said earlier, I agree that we are here with people who have worked for decades with guidance that does not have the special education that is even independent and all that they do but may be able to get the education if there was to be some way in which a person would not have to take the whole school but that the experience would be appreciated as in so many other jobs. I'll take examples of my own class, students and advisers. What a young person it was to resist legal protection of that commission and to do the work that did not necessarily result or even have knowledge! It's been the same in the past, and it's still in spite of everything. It is certainly good for an enterprise to have educated and good workers at work, and many people come to this, but I believe that an equal opinion could be ignored, it might be a bit difficult if we were to put only light guides, or only mountain leaders, or what it is. The minister must know as much as I do that if you travel abroad, a foreign guide or native guide must be included in such trips, even if you are with an Icelandic guide. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to see here that not only would buses from abroad with the whole package and nobody come up here to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u4	Mr. President. I reiterate that we are becoming more and more prosperous in Icelandic tourism. The experience of our guests shows that in general Icelandic tourism has successfully met expectations and is exceeded in many cases. As I mentioned in the previous discussion, I generally feel that there is a greater demand for my enterprises than for myself, and I believe that there are goals to be achieved. It seems to me that in general the aim of wanting to increase the road and the quality of guide guides, improving the quality of international travel services, and making sure their safety is secure, and the experience is good. There, guides play a key role. When I was with a group in New Zealand, I felt that they were exorbitant, both in terms of the tourists'safety. They have had many experiences in such tourism, which had a significant impact on the construction of the industry in that country. There it became a view that this could be achieved in a different way and that it could be sorted according to the type of travel and species of tourism. I think it's more likely to work than the other. Then we argue. A senator may have something on law protection covered, i.e. I feel that we in general have walked a long way when it comes to legal protection. I know that we in Iceland stand out as different from other countries, but the project is to improve safety, quality and professionality of Icelandic tourism. I'm convinced that we can find a way to do this and put it in the work we're working on on a strategy on the basis of the policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u5	A respectable president. According to the Treaty Treaty District Convention, Independence Party, and Left Transport, there is a plan to eliminate sexual violence, especially digital sexual abuse. It has been observed that the board of prime minister for overall improvements in sexual violence was assigned to shape policies against digital sexual abuse and that the Ministry of Presidency published a report in January 2020 won by María Rún Bjarnadóttir. It is a report to the helm of the overall improvement on sexual violence. I am curious about how work as a whole means, so I asked for the subject in the beginning of February. The debate about the application at the council Hall has been delayed, but measures against digital sexual violence are as important today as they were in February, so thank you very much. Prime Minister for coming here to discuss these matters. During the past few years, daily contact with people has changed dramatically because of increasing digital communication and has brought new challenges to daily life in many areas. The change has required changes in the quality of the law and has affected the quality of the individual's communication. It is enough to highlight rapid changes in personal protection laws. Many, though, feel that there is no longer enough legal environment to follow the trend in technology, but scholars have noted that the type of digital sexual abuse can have serious social consequences, particularly the case of graphic sexual abuse. The consequences can be more serious to the short and long term and may be less likely to occur in a small community like Iceland than in larger communities. Violence, like other forms of violence, can greatly reduce the quality of life of its victims and cause both mental and physical illnesses, such as anxiety and blurred pain. It has been difficult to map the degree of digital complete fractures, including because in the legislation as it is, there are no laws on digital and sexual privacy. The joint assessment has shown that the tolerance of violence is unlikely to pay for its rights in Iceland. So I would like to ask three questions: 1st What is the general conference of actions against digital sexual abuse that a group of prime minister was assigned to work in harmony with the government covenant? 2. Will a wise minister suggest a legal adjustment in order to strengthen the positions of such offenders? [[The president calls.]] 3. In what ways can a society's awareness of emotional abuse and the connection with offenses be promoted?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for setting up this matter. Although it has been a long time since the inquiry was submitted, the subject is still there and it is good to have an opportunity to review the situation. In fact, sexual violence is basically the greatest challenge we are facing right now in order to bring about the full equality of the sexes. The United Nations, according to its world target, still has full gender equality as the target for the world target of No. 5. According to the United Nations, the world's ultimate goal is to achieve complete equality between the sexes. It is, in fact, amazing when the year 2020 is the year, violence plays a major role in preventing full equality from being reached. Like what? I was appointed by a senator to appoint a collective relief group in terms of sexual violence, which took place under the administration of the Ministry of Justice, State Department, Social Ministry, Health Ministry, Education, and Culture Ministry. Hv. A member of the United States named María Rún Bjarnadóttir, who uses the term "sexual immunity" in this form and gives evidence that it is more extensive than digital sexual abuse and includes many ways of living. The main conclusions of this report were that current legislation does not provide adequate protection against sexual immunity to individuals. is reflected in a blurred court order and a negative history of fracture tolerance, and therefore legislation is needed. The legislation should then be followed by three-way policy-making procedures: first with prevention and education, secondly with improvements in treatment within the justice system and third, with increased support for tolerability. These suggestions were discussed in the Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities, followed by the Supreme Court. The Minister of Justice is commissioned to conduct a review of legislation and legal action in the light of the suggestions outlined in the report. It is, in fact, there. proposed to be added to the sexual abuse of a general penal law that violates sexual privacy of individuals, to form by means of release and distribution of the material online, punishable. It should be noted that at the scene of the General Assembly, individual members of the Parliament have taken an important initiative in these matters by means of initials in handling digital sexual abuse. This work has been taken into account in this report. In accordance with recommendations, the operating group is also working on corrective changes to the level of fracture resistance. These suggestions have been given a thorough review of the Court's Committee and are now working on a bill, so I expect the highest. The Minister of Justice will have these matters in his Constitution in the fall to come. In terms of non-surgent cases, the Ministry of Social Affairs has offered proposals for improved insurgent service to consider the implementation of a series of measures against violence and its consequences. Then there has already been a plan for prevention of sexual immunity. On the 12th of March, I recommended a resolution, sexual and sexual harassment prevention and harassment. The Parliamentary arrangement suggests that prevention will be integrated in schools, elementary schools, and high schools, but it also takes place within vacation homes and social centres, in sports and youth activities, and in other leisure activities. This is how all young and young people are being endeavored to reach out for equality and respect, where sexual and sexual violence and harassment cannot thrive. While it is important to direct these prevention systems through school to reach all children, the proposal also suggests that a school course will be attacked, as well as the educational material on the nature and consequences of sexual and sexual violence and harassment for staff working with children and young people. It was a good debate here at the council Hall when it was recommended for this proposal that gives me hope and hopes that it will be completed at this council, and we can start working according to this program. It is time to shape the whole range of policies on this subject, and following such a course, it has been repeatedly called upon as well as by rich demands on the Icelandic government on the basis of international commitments. I refer to the European Council's Istanbul Convention on domestic violence and violence, the European Council's Convention on Prevention of Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse of Children and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment. The work is well done, and I hope we've taken quite a step this year and the next.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u7	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir turn on the subject. How important it is that we discuss these matters regularly and keep them up for discussion, since that is not really so long since we began to talk about sexual violence, much less digital sexual violence. I didn't know what it was that long ago, but technology goes fast, and it's the same with the crimes and criminals and water, and it always finds a way, moving on. But when we do not find ways to deal with this and to take action against it, it is a bad thing to do. That's why it's very important that we have some reaction to it when it comes up, and I'm happy to have every plan as high as I can. The prime minister mentioned to us, and I hope that they will succeed. But I wonder what's most successful, isn't it a general awareness, a conversation, and information to everyone?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u8	A respectable president. I thank you very much for this question and for this discussion, and I have a little interest in financial resources, it's about the Council Committee that I'm mostly involved with. Recently, I would like to hear how these funds have been used to improve in this category. Also, I find it interesting to look at this matter, and the Congress resolutions we've been working on, in connection with the recent study done in the Council, which shows the exact scope of this problem, not just on the digital field but on the physical world. I'm the highest. Prominent in these matters, the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister responds to the members and members of the council who are involved in their discussion. I am so happy that we have taken progressive steps in this work. I would like to direct a question to the prime minister: Are we talking about one or more cases from the minister of justice in the next fall, or might that not be clear? I'd so much like to adopt the concept of sexual immunity that I think is very important, and only the concept can add to our understanding and respect that each person must have sexual immunity. I think the induction of this term helps us fight digital sexual abuse and instruct on the importance of eliminating it. It's like the highest. The prime minister was involved in these activities as a means of success in equality. If we are to continue to take the lead on a global level of equality, we must do in this area as well as in the full implementation of the Istanbul contract and other activities in this field. I think that in combating violence, we may have started later than in other countries, because of our success in equality and in other ways, being able to do better than many others. And as I told you in the conference discussion about the Council's Consolation of Prevention, the educational campaign planned for this work is of utmost importance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u10	Mr. President. Thanks again. The leader and the leader. Parliamentaries who have been involved in the discussion. It's, I think, in these matters it's necessary to do both, i.e. to attack needed legal adjustments and to make sure that the law reflects to some extent the environment in which we live, in which they do not now. These manifestations of sexual abuse are not expected through new technologies. I also think it is important that we introduce this concept, sexual immunity, into domestic rights. I think it will only change the understanding of the problem of sexual and sexual violence. How have funds been used in the efforts under attack? I think the money the state has put into such a great deal of work was handled very well. Of course, they've been quite a few in recent years. But I believe that the big thing about this is that we can't deal with this as a challenge, we always have to do it. It is important to make good use of the emphasis laid on the pre-precautionary program, which I reiterate that I hope the council approves of this council, in order to make it really a regular part of the school system so that we can achieve this general awareness and a conversation with children and young people, because it will really matter. Finally, I'd like to say, like what? A client pointed out that Iceland has called attention to good results in international equality. But if we are going to live up to our name, it is not an option to sit down now and rest, but it is our duty to continue working to eliminate sexual discrimination. Sexual or sexual violence is the most vivid form of discrimination, which is at the same time both a cause and a result. [[The president calls.]] That is why it is so important that we set our priorities to root it out in our society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u11	A respectable president. It can rightly be said that the term "sanity " is somewhat broad, as well as its definition may contain different factors, depending on the context of that definition. Basically, it involves what is next to us, our person, our life, our members, and our personal life. In most Western communities, therefore, immunity is one of the basics of society and the lives of the individual, and protection of the individual is done at a higher level than that of other social values. Thus, as with the killing of another individual, most of the communities that we compare with ourselves are under ban on the death penalty of the State. Thus, the idea of permanence in some respects becomes like a religious approach. By failing to respect her, they are performing some sort of sacrilegious sacrilegious sacrilegious talk. There have also been sophistication and immunity. This will be a short discussion of rights secured in a constitution, such as privacy. Thus, it can be wondered whether a person's basic right to privacy should be defined as nothing less important than privacy. These two sacred expressions are connected in a way and can be asked whether they are not always going together and should therefore be defined as one. In this way, there is a degree of privacy that has to be said to the point of permanence, and some of its permanence must be woven out of the sophistication factors. Whether the importance of the weekend concept will be more and more in a time when our personal information has become one of the most valuable products in the world and technology that uses the personal information will become a more extensive part of our lives and will even take on greater scale. Thus, again, the terms "ethnic " and" immunity " need to be defined. At present, there is a number of discussions within the Council's Health Committee on Moral Values and Health Priorities. That's exactly one of the principles. Therefore, the question is: 1st Does Ministers believe that the definition of the term "management weekend" is sufficient in the laws of the Ministry's topic? Then perhaps you could add: And should you even work on the fact that there is a uniform definition in Iceland? 2. Has there been a debate about the concept in connection with the change in the republicary constitution? And again: Does a minister even believe that such talk should be done by the public and that governments should take the initiative to do so? 3. Does a minister rightly believe that the term appears in a constitution like the term "freedom of privacy'? And it may be a matter of warning that even if the term is not part of the Constitution text, it will be used and defined in a series of articles and enclosed documents.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for the inquiry. The first question asked by the senator is about this word, the weekend of humanity we know from ancient languages, meaning "grieve " and" come. " To a story in Trygvesson's story, if I don't forget. However, when you consult the law that hears under the Ministry of Presidency, you will not see that this term appears in the law of law under the Ministry of Presidency. It is in the laws that hear under other ministers and that are not always used in the same sense. Thus it comes as a picture in the Icelandic translation of the European Convention of Human Rights, which is a law No. 62 since 1994. This is mentioned in the article of the Treaty, which discusses when a violation of liberation is granted, which translates into the English term, by permission of the President, the Office of the Personality. In Danish, the president's permission is spoken of as saying: 'Sheikhed.' Thus, the term "sanity " here properly refers to the need not to suffer a loss of freedom according to governmental ideals. Then, in the laws of the medical field, it is clearly more widely understood, where it refers to man's dignity, individual characteristics, and the rights that are nearest to him. This inconsistencies in the terms used in the law, when you look at it, are certainly not at all worth the effort, and then I come to the next question. A senator to see if there has been a discussion about the concept in connection with the change in the republic's constitution. As far as I know, this term has not been specifically discussed in this regard. There have been suggestions on parallel terms, and I refer to the proposal of a 2011 administrative committee that suggested that the concept of dignity be introduced at the beginning of a revised constitution as one of the basic values of the Republic. In a bill, which a greater part of the management and monitoring committee proposed in the fall of 2012, based on the proposal of a management body, stated that everyone should be assured of the right to live with dignity and then went on into the diversity of human life. That concept was not new in that context. Third question. A senator is whether I properly believe that the concept appears in a constitution, such as the concept of privacy. As we know, a review of the Constitution is under way and a review of the next terms, if the schedule remains, is scheduled to take into account the section of the Constitution's human rights. It is directed to compare the chapter with the suggestions that have been made since using the term "human dignity. " I quote the current action programme on action due to the fourth industrial revolution, which requires government resistance to a state-of-the-art policy on artificial intelligence, something that has not been done. Of course, I think the development of artificial intelligence as well as evolution raises new questions about the basis and nature of human existence that have come quite far from what we know from the Olafsaga of Trygvasson, mentioned earlier. What is the limit to the repair of human genetics? What will be man's situation when technology can take over and even do the work that people do today? What about man's self - determination rights in an online society in which individual characteristics, needs, and desires have been harvested? For example, what will be our right to reject a service performed by machines rather than men? This fundamental issue must be discussed and shaped in such policies. I've decided to follow this proposal published today, and the chemical agenda for artificial intelligence for Iceland, as there's a lot of opportunities. It involves dealing with moral opinions, and it is very important that we do not readily submit to the international discussion that is designed to take place at the European Council's scene, for example. This work will be done next year. It's not directly related to what I mentioned on the constitution, but I think that work might be used for the work that will continue in the next term.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u13	President. I appreciate this discussion, it's very interesting. I can see why. A senator is going to ask three ministers the same kind of questions, the prime minister, health and child - care ministers. It would be good to ask a justice minister too because it too will be a subject, but it may not be today. I began to study this article and to study a book entitled Sacred Publicity ▪ Highlights From the Personal Protection by Páll Sigurðsson. I just got this book today at the General Library, which says it's about personal rights and is, in fact, a person's rights. Talk of competentness, and under law, self-infundantity, and financial resources. This also concerns how people of freedom can be compared. I ask people to be very careful in the task of revising these things because in the term, and how it has been translated from e.g. The European Convention of Human Rights is a tremendous protection, it is in the patient's rights. If we begin to change it somehow and thus lose some right protection from patients, how they are handled by personal information, or how they can be treated with freedom, we have come to the hearth of ice. [[The president calls.]] I just repeat, let's be careful about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u14	A respectable president. I just wanted to remind you that 10. The bill of the Management Board on a new constitution is about privacy, guaranteeing immunity to all from all forms of violence, such as sexual abuse, domestic and external. It's also Article 3. In the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, everyone has the right to life, freedom, and immunity. That is why I find an interesting discussion on a welfare committee about taking away the people's weekend and replacing their dignity or something like that. It sounds to me like they're cutting down rights that are very well defined in terms of privacy. It is the highest legal term that can be used to define people's rights and to reduce them is something that at least makes the Pirats say no. This is not in the right direction and should further strengthen it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u15	Mr. President. I'm not going to get involved in some controversy that sounds to me echo in here about the use of the term in another social committee. I haven't followed that conversation and I'm not gonna get involved. But when it comes to the constitution, what has already occurred in the 2011 constitution of the Council of Government was in Article 10. Talk about weekend. In the 2012 Senate edition, the directive had been changed according to the opinion of experts, which, in the latter case, had been added to the Commission and the Commission to work for them and believed that it was more correct to correct the rules of the matter rather than to use the term. So there was a discussion at the time. I don't feel personally necessary to put this in a constitution. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we live and train our legislation according to various values without necessarily specifying them in a constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u16	Mr. President. I thank the members of the council who have participated in the discussion. It may not have been enough that today is a collection of human life discussions and the concept of many ministers and ministers. I had assumed that the highest. Minister of Justice could be with us. I'm afraid that didn't happen today, but I was shocked. Senators to follow up later. The differences in English terms, with the permission of the presidents, can be thought of as human sanctimoniousity and both as a weekend. I think the first term actually fits the meaning better, and maybe we should keep it up. It's like the highest. The prime minister came in, it is a matter of human dignity. Maybe that's how it is, like a cot. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson mentioned, that we can't define it, and maybe we shouldn't try to nail it down like that, because we're expected to have our feelings for the concept of a people's distance from generation to generation. I believe that we who are here will define the term differently than those who live after 100 years, like the highest. The prime minister came in earlier indirectly. It's a complicated speculation. I felt that a discussion on the subject would be given to form in the Constitution or in the subsections of the Constitution, such as articles and such, would be helpful, especially because, in time, it can be assumed that a discussion of this term will be increasing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again and again. The members of the council here addressed because this is a complicated matter. Words are expensive, someone said. We are using this term in the different ways that I went very fast in my response as we are on the other side, for example. discuss it as a boy. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, on the other hand, spoke of the protection of people in the face of loss of freedom and in a more general way in terms of human dignity. It raises questions as to whether there is any reason to study the terms used in Icelandic languages. However, I agree with a view that needs to be done with caution. It is difficult to change the use of words in law and justice without a major chain reaction. I think it's extremely good that we're discussing this from the different stewards involved here. I think, however, that whoever the term use will be, we will need to discuss man's right to human being, whatever the word we use over it, simply because of the technological changes we are already in, simply because of the way that data and information have become quite different in a decade. Simply because of the way self - efficiency is going to affect all human society, we must think of this right to human being, and perhaps the right concept to use in that discussion. I think this brief discussion here will show us that this requires a considerable depth of analysis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u18	Mr. President. It's like the highest. The president presented me here on behalf Sigurður Páll's Jónsson, who proposed this inquiry to the highest degree. Environment Minister. For example, my concern is as a result of the efforts of a tofu and minks on bird life in parks and a peaceful country like the Horn Coast. In the parks and in the land of peace, hunting is on tofu, and mink is banned. Everyone knows what it's like to be a bird on the Horny coasts, almost none of the birds and the toe have cleaned up the living where it reaches them. For example, on Hellissandi and Rifi, one of the largest terns in the country. That lay is in grave danger because of the trouble of the tofu. In 1940 a list of earth's surface was made with vasocasts in the White River to the Hothá. These include: Mines in Westland, between the White Years of Civil War and the River of Hori. At that time, 28 earths had a vascular system, but today there are cables on eight ground, and everyone struggles to protect the lip against tofu and minks. In fact, it is not until 1980 that the toe begins to appear below the sea and has caused the flow of blood in the Flea to be very little present. There are also blackbacks that have stopped laying in the Gulf because of the tofu. At that time, there is much less of a bird's life. As noted, farmers try to protect themselves from the trouble of the tofu by gulping against the lay zone. In many lay areas, however, fences are difficult to establish so that the toil cannot reach its end. As a result, many people have to watch the end during the laying process. One of the largest televisions in the country was in the fields at Mimorm, where no young man reached the last summer. Governments and rural groups are responsible for keeping this defence low. The farm society hires fishermen to catch a toll and a mink, and they receive a certain amount of money from each source. The problem, however, is that the fishermen have a greeting in each area, and when the salatans are caught, the fish are stopped. The rest is set on, as it's called. It's about time, for example. The toe and the marauder are to multiply uninjured in the National Park of Snæfells, on the Horn Coasts, and elsewhere. New research has shown that the tofu can travel about 100 miles per day, allowing it to travel a lot. I would like to pray in this context to the highest degree. Environment Minister to answer the questions asked in writing and to rejoice if there is a discussion here on this matter. I don't think it's who it looks like, but it's the best. The four questions asked are received by the secretary of the environment and transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u19	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator's inquiry. The Tofu, the fox, any name we want to name, is the only original national mammal in Iceland, and took up this country long before they settled here. Thus, the penalties are an integral part of Icelandic nature and are special because of long - term isolation by other contaminants. The Merachka is a Arctic animal, and in all its habitats the number has declined substantially. Sentences enjoy general law of peace. 64/1994, for the protection, peace and fishing of wild birds and wild mammals, a minister in part has lifted that peace and authorized fishing to reduce the risk of loss and damage. Never, though, has there been any misjudgment or damage to fishing. Mines are an invasive alien species in Icelandic nature. They were first moved to the land for breeding, and as a result, they escaped from culture in 1932. It took only a minimum of 40 years to study all the areas here on the land that on the other side are viable for the species. In accordance with legal requirements, mingers do not enjoy peace. It is practiced throughout the country by 64/1994 fish and fishing. Iceland's Department of Natural Sciences is responsible for the monitoring of the Icelandic vehicular population. Last year, a signed agreement was signed on the Environment and Resource Ministry at the Western Museum for the monitoring of the lower stock for a certain period of time. The question is whether tofu and minks have been investigated in the past few years. Since 1979, the work of the Icelandic contaminant has been under way. The presence of the strain can be divided into two components, one of the female reproductive ratios and the other of the female reproductive fertility. The above factor is often called a drying point, and this is a key factor in the natural population control of foxes in Iceland. When the powder began to grow at a minimum by and after 1980, it increased almost tenfold to 2008. Simply put, at that time the event was much higher than death. For the most part, a higher proportion of sexually mature streams were involved in reproduction, even the youngest. A lot of protrusions per fart, i.e. On the other hand, fertility is unusually regular in Icelandic fox clothes and does not swing in rhythm as a strain change does. Hv. A senator asks for the effect of a ban on fishing on a mink and a tow in national parks on stock size. As mentioned earlier, minks are caught around the country, also in peaceful areas. There is no strict prohibition on hunting a tofu in national parks. For example, a foxy hunt is practiced within a Lake cold nation, although there is no known or no evidence of any harm to justify the hunt. There are 25 known dens in the National Park of Snæfells, and three or six of them have been encamped for the past few years and have not increased despite the lack of a fox in the national park. The Pacific Peace is not a national park, but it should be mentioned in this context, where the Hornlands are most likely the most important grassland of foxes in Iceland, and they were at peace there in the fishing season since 1995. The Horn Coast is known as some 170 dumps, and it is likely that about 45 to 1550 of them lived in an apartment in 1998◯2014. Although the size of stocks has not been evaluated before and after peace, there are statistics on the early 1980s of cry processing. The evidence indicates that the population size of foxes on the Horn coasts was consistent with that of the whole country. Hv. A senator asks about the influence of tofu and minks on the hands of birds and cliff birds. A minute can no doubt have a negative impact on access, such as Matrices and other species of regions, unfortunately, this has not been reliably studied here. It is known that minks can cause a disaster on a vagrant, leaving them inundated bandits that do not have natural enemies on the land. The effect of minimization on cliff birds is unknown, except for its known abduction of the teat and other cliff birds that lay in small rocks available to minks. The Tow had come before man, and is, as previously seen, an integral part of Icelandic ecosystems in which land miners, ecosystems in which both birds and cliff birds live. These groups of animals have had a long time to adjust to one another. It may be said that the access of rocks and birds is somehow programmed into a system where there is a number of walking and flying predators, and the lay of cliffs is a characteristic of such adaptations. [[The president calls.]] However, studies have not shown negative effects on the maintenance or size of the population of foxes in this country and must state that it is important to have additional studies on this subject. I'll have other answers to the senator's questions later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u20	V.E.G. President. Here, there is still a group of people who have the land in their bones and veins and who know nature as their palm. They have been living with her for a long time and have been crying for decades. One musketeer told me that the problem with the tofu now is that of crying a lot and that in recent years the toy had grown down to the ground. This may be because after a few years, searching for fish had stopped paying off, i.e. Looking for gnards. It's not that there's goodbye everywhere. I understand it's just the Westland, I don't know it because I'm somewhere else from abroad. So, men have been putting out bodies. I'm also told by educated men who have observed this and participated in research, and for decades in the toddles that it has greatly increased its fertility, just tremendously over the last few years. This may be because the search has not been made and humans have even been putting out bodies and not caring for those who should, it would have to be fed to animals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u21	Mr. President. This is better known than it has to be said that predators and predators are possession animals, devote themselves to territory, and compete, so their growth is self - control. True, they can increase but only to a degree. The increase is not out of control. Iceland wasn't a country country here with a fox, an eagle and a falcon. Humans know exactly how this works in the natural world, so when it comes to controlling or blocking the growth of certain strains, it must be done in a scientific way. It is clear that if we aim, e.g. The number of reindeer in Iceland would have to kill thousands of foxes each year. I think it's much closer to us looking at environmental changes abroad, the changing of the environment here, and taking this in scientific knowledge, and with scientific accuracy, instead of teaching foxes about all creationed things in the birds or in the few changes in Iceland because these are wrong practices against important creatures in the ecosystem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u22	Mr. President. Regarding the fox, it is necessary to mention the background of the Environment Ministry for Foxy in the Horn of Peace. Since 1995, it is a product that serves only one purpose, causing the most harm to all bird life in the region, to a rock bird as well as a bird. The Mother has now disappeared from the land of peace. The fox then flows out of the land of peace into other regions, into the Deep and east with the Beaches, one of the best grouses in the country. There is no kneeling down to this day. A fox's grouse has fallen low. Research in the United States and Sweden shows that if the stocks of predators are at peace in parks, the population will grow abnormal and the animals will be looking outside the national park. The fox is a great wreck in a TV and all birds' life apart from being an animal. This peace policy is to be suspended on a fox on the Horny coasts and to put an extra campaign in veal fishing all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u23	Mr. President. I'm going to make some comments on this subject. The fox was here when the man arrived in Iceland. When settlers arrived, the fox was forged, the only national mammal living in the country. The blessed fox has its right to life. He's been called a lot of names I'm not going to recite, but I especially love his name. He has certainly not lived in harmony with the man in this country. They have prepared gray silver from the very beginning because it has settled on farms, including a flock, like a whale. A senator mentioned earlier. I don't have time to discuss the mink, but I think there's a need to stop the unreceptive rise of foxes in this country. One of the things I want to direct to the highest. Minister is about to make a mistake on payment to those who are winning this animal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u24	Mr. President. The fox has been in Iceland all along. Although he has his own rights, like the rest of this country, it is not unusual for humans to want to defend their interests, to defend their livestock. That's perfectly normal. I would also like to remind you that the fox has great cultural value in Iceland, as several members of the Parliament have been involved. There's a fine example of that in the Melkast West of Susgavík. We're supposed to look for a route, as I hear it. Ministers are doing so, to ensure that at the same time we will ensure the interests of those who are harmed by foxes and minks should also honor the culture and history of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u25	Mr. President. That's a lot of interesting discussions. I know that a minister has only a limited time to answer at the end, but I have two simple questions for the Minister who might be able to answer with a yes or no. The first is the highest. A minister in general feels that one link in the life chain is desirable. The other question is, what's the highest? A minister might wish to appease a Mother and a rock bird in the Horn Coast Peace Land, whether he would prefer to take out the two species that would likely have flown over the heads of settlers when they arrived here in their own time and apparently both damaged inhabitants of the land and being food chests and the rest of the time. Is it possible for him to appease these two species in the Horn Coast Peace Land?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u26	Mr. President. First, I would like to thank you for the excellent discussion that has been conducted here. At least Two o'clock. In addition to the viewpoint expressed by a minister, members of the council have discussed that the fox was here at a land mine that is certainly correct, and no comment has been made on this. It's not just that it was in this naturally balanced predatory balance. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in earlier but it has also been a matter of the availability of foxes for food that is put out by fishing, which is not cared for. As a result, the fox has been raised in certain areas, even though it was not meant at all. The effects seem to have increased. V.E.G. A minister said that a fox's negative effect on birds was not demonstrated. I think I got this word from the top. Minister. I'm sure there's evidence that this has not been shown to be sufficiently scientific, but I don't think it would be reasonable to argue that the fox does not influence birds and other birds'life in which it exists. I think this is a concern to people who know the areas and those who have visited the Horny for decades. Then it is absolutely clear that birdlike life is there in a way that was very different from that of the past. Of course, while protecting ourselves from the value and interests of the people of the land and from prayer, we must also approach the matter from nature protection and the point of view that bird life is spent in such a balanced way. [[The president calls.]] These matters don't seem to be balanced today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u27	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the queries and members of the council for participating in the discussion. I was going to ask you a question. Senator on fishing numbers. The EEA collects information on hunting in wild animals, and over a ten - year period of 2008◯2017, approximately 6,000,8500 foxes and 2700 minas were caught annually. It should be noted that foxes are caught throughout the year, and the father is replaced by adult animals or proletariats. Thus, the Agency's total fishing statistics are given, and the Icelandic fox population is estimated to be some 7,500 adults. In recent years, the number of fish that are 6,000,8500 foxes each year shows that the fishing pressure is very high, yet the population has remained pretty stable. That's very interesting. Thus, the percentages of mass-time ministers are considerably high up to 35%. I told you before that studies did not reveal negative effects on the maintenance or size of the population of dolphins or foxes in this country. Like a snooze. A senator may not have enough research to establish a link, and I'm sorry that we don't have it because we can all agree that, of course, the effects of a fox are like minks on bird life. Therefore, it is important that we have research on which we can based, and that is why we are reviewing the law on wild birds and wild mammals very important that we establish regulations that show damage from an alleged animal so that studies can be based on decision making. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very important in this matter as well as in others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u28	Mr. President. Only a long time ago did the word "loaf " not exist in English as a proverb. I don't say it's on everybody's lips right now, but we often hear it on the news and elsewhere. Sparks are defined as particles of less than 10 micrometers. Cytochrome is one thousandth of a millimeter, so these are actually invisible particles. Their origin in nature is varied. Iceland has a lot of hot air or soil weather because it's desolate in Iceland, so we don't go any farther, and there's a bad country from where hovering dust can come to people. Volcanic ashes are also involved, or glass particles, that are volcanoes can also fill this category, even tiny bits of sea salt that carry bad storms into the country. Also, urban, street, and street. Of course, there are particles that come from traffic into the air. It's tar or tar particles, that's what they say from the stone filling in the gravel. It is rubber made from tires of cars, and even in the case of extensive nail use, there may be additional tiny metal particles. It's not a particularly cool mixture, and it's added to this, so we're making a lot of fire engine sauce, i.e. boats, ships, cars, airplanes, etc. There may be some waste in fuel extracts, but especially diesel trucks. In turn, it is trying to reduce it as much as it is possible with filters. So it is hovering, and the effect is that it can enter human skin or that an animal can enter the tissue but also the bloodstream itself. Whatever the case, it's a considerable strain. There are tests, but how much are they? What do we know about the amount of gliders in Iceland over the nation's heads and spread? Measures are e.g. In the city, but how many other places are they? What do we know about the spread of gliders and then the counterwarrants themselves? What can be done, and what has been done? We know that there are many challenges, but are there any new ones? [[The president calls.]] These are my questions to the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for the inquiry. As shown in the case of what? A candidate has a negative impact on health, especially on those with underlying health problems. This is an urgent air quality problem and must be addressed and reduced by particulate pollution. The information on particulates is asked in Iceland. tics on a glider in Reykjavík began in 1986. In 1994 measurements were made on the Road of Grensá, and it has been continuously measured since then. Aquifers are measured at 13 measuring sites in the country. The EEA collects air quality measurements from all national indicators and sends the European Environment Agency every year. The type of action required to curb particulate matter in towns and rural areas is also asked. Actions that help to control particulate matter may vary depending on the location and origin of the glider. At active intensification areas, e.g. there are no short-term solutions, but in some of these areas, land healing may be part of the problem. Traffic is the main source of gliders in urban areas. The highest levels of measurement are largely of road block origin and are most effective in inhibiting particulates in the most densely populated area. Actions include e.g. in dusting and cleaning streets, limiting traffic and reducing nail use. Then I also believe that it is necessary to trace particulates from fireworks. The composition of the dust is particularly dangerous, and at annual intervals, particulates are polluted, particularly in the capital area, far beyond acceptable levels. Recently, a team of workers received a report suggesting how to reduce adverse impacts on human health and air quality from fireworks pollution. In accordance with protocols on loyalty and pollution, HCPs should perform pre-operative measures for air quality measures in their territory. Also, it's a matter of time for advocates to come to the fore. This is specifically discussed in the Guideline for Action Plans to reduce air pollution produced by the EEA last year. Clearly, particulate pollution is significant from traffic and street systems, especially during winterfalls. Long - term success can be achieved by building bicycle footpaths, making good public transportation, encouraging transportation, and informing the public of the choice of tires. During wintertime, the main focus must be on the street, especially on the biggest streets, and the very near apartments, schools, theaters, etc. Every day, predictions need to be made and presented. If particulates give rise to particulates, it is desirable to vacuum the biggest streets and clean. It is also asked if there are new activities to plan for particulates pollution, e.g. to urban areas. In 2017 the Ministry published clean air for the future a plan on air quality in Iceland, 2018,2029. There are seven measures in total to reduce the number of days in which particulates cross the health limit to 0. One involves a operation to reduce nail use. Other actions include: that the use of diesel engines, the limit of maximum speed, the more frequent dusting and cleaning of the holes, the road axes and footprints, the educational campaign to ban the access of vehicles and ban the sale of telecommunications for fossil fuels. For example, an educational campaign on the ban on the use of automobiles last year was under way. Ruscing and cleaning are procedures that are applied systematically and other measures mentioned below. At the end of the last year, about 40% of the measures mentioned in the above air quality programme were completed. Then I'd like to mention that with new traffic laws, local governments or road shapes have the authority to limit road - to - traffic particulates. The Department of Transport and Regional Affairs is engaged in a regulations that will provide additional guidelines on this authority. I'd also like to mention here for this reason that recently I have been given the strength needed to electricalize ten ports in Iceland, which were strengthened. At the end of the last year, black oil use was banned in Icelandic territory. Both of these measures contribute to less hovering and increased air quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u30	Mr. President. I thank the advisor and minister for their introductions in this discussion. What I want to draw attention to is a point of supreme importance. A minister came on as one of the factors that could counteract particulate pollution. I'll give myself the highest look on the capital area. It is dust-binding and cleaning the street. There has been considerable criticism of how rarely these two teams have been taken care of in Reykjavík. I don't know what it's like in the neighboring countryside, but I regularly hear that such measures are still far apart. Has the highest. The secretary of the environment has some discussions with the city of Reykjavík to increase the number of transpirations within the year that are directly cleansed by reducing particulate pollution?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to mix up a little bit about hovering dust. I think that many of us raised here in the United States take it as self - assured that some days a year dust comes down from the highlands and even from lowlands. I am, for example. Raised at the end of the River Valley, a few days a year in the southwest comes very fine dust from the mountains of Dublin and glaciers up against the lakes. When I was a kid, I never really wondered how much this had to do with more than 100 years after it became the soda from which the dust comes. [[The president calls.]] I think that would be a reason to monitor the origin of these vacuums.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his input earlier and for his excellent discussion. After all, particulates are probably less common in Iceland than in any other country. That may be a source of comfort, I don't know. A major factor is the wastelands and the areas in which land healing is a key, although it is possible to repair what needs to be fixed. I'd still like to mention it here. In the case of the nail pads, research has shown that they are one of the main sources in the urban area, especially in Reykjavík and the largest towns, when I want to come to the cleansing process. Who is she really? It is simply rinsing the entire alpaca either at sea or at receptors such as lakes. The cleansing is in itself a short - term solution and the question of how intelligent it always is. We're not just talking about microplastics, we're also talking about other particles coming into the environment that are not healthy. Thirdly, I'd like to talk only about energy change. They are very important in this relationship because despite the glider emissions from the tyres of electrical vehicles, the hover emissions are much smaller than from normal cars, so energy exchange is key to this. I'd like to come in on a little soot. It is very good to welcome the measures taken, e.g. For electricalisation rejection, inhibition of certain types of oil within the economic law, etc. In the north, this is thought to be one of the most serious pollutions, simply because it comes to snow and ice, when these slices dark by wastets, increase the melting rate, and this is very important to prevent it from happening here too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u33	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The members of the council are very much interested in this fine discussion of hovering dust. To sum up my issues, I believe that in general, we need to reduce the sources of the hover box because, of course, this is how we get the most results. Because of the particulates that make it necessary to try to use methods and measures to reduce the simply stirring up of them, as it were. Of course we have to deal with desertification in Iceland. I agree with what. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative that there's a natural task to do. Happily, the present government has placed vastly more money on land - healing services and, especially, trying to stop the detriment of land. To answer that. Ólason For whether I have handled these matters in Reykjavík, the answer is: No, I have not. The responsibility for implementing the short-term response programmes is at the health care department. That doesn't mean I can't talk to the city, but I haven't talked to her about this. Finally, I would like to mention that the project clean air for the future, which the Ministry published 2017 should be revised every four years. The first revision will be conducted in the next year, with a new schedule that will appear at the end of the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to begin by celebrating the opportunity to have a place to speak at the highest. Environment Minister for Forest Service. Actually, I've done it before, so I keep hammering. I have two questions to the top. Minister. The first is: Does a minister believe that increasing forestry could be used to remedy current poor employment conditions? The second is: Can a minister quickly speed up forestry projects? What assignments would be considered there? So I'm asking the highest. Minister on conditions now, i.e. increased unemployment, taking into account that governments have used funding to strengthen their job life in various areas. For that reason, I ask the highest. Their minister questions whether forestry is not the ideal task to take in these times. I also realize that trees cannot be planted if plants have not been raised before. I realize that, but I ask if there are no other tasks that can be taken lightly in the forestry field, such as to grow up the forests that already need the gauze. Grision increases the growth of the remaining trees and increases their value and quality and thus provides future input to increase the value of existing forests. I know a lot of places where this has happened a little bit and it hasn't been worked out. That's one project I have in mind. There are also many other projects, such as the crops that are being planted on young plants for the summer, footprints, seed collections, and toilets in the already existing forests. I think it's perfect now and I'm gonna ask a minister if it's not the right time to take such an assignment. I remind you, as I have done before, that forestry is an investment for a long time. Forests are not a industry that swings from some economic rhythm in the world or here on land, but they can only wait and use it when it is chosen. You can wait to cut a forest if you have low tree prices. It can be stored for the future, and the forest can be used when it is chosen. I am very interested in hearing the highest stand. Minister to these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u35	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator is eager for his inquiry as well as for his enthusiastic discussion of forestry at the General Assembly. The short answer to the questions is: Yes, and yes. The answer is further: When asked if a minister believes that increasing forestry can be used to correct a temporary problem, an increase in forestry is just one of the measures I started because of society's conditions on the basis of a budget approved at the council at the end of March. The methodology we used in the Ministry was to consult our institutions, the Forest and Landing, of projects that would need to be started, as required in the budget, for September 1 and to be completed by April 1 next year. There's a lot of pressure on what you can do, but I'll discuss only the action we're taking on in terms of growing forestry based on forestry proposals. First of all, additional projects for the recovery of birch forests are expected to be produced at least 0.5 million biomass directed through forestry and work, e.g. School people and contractors. That was 60 billion. K. Then there is the rapid beginning of the gathering of birch seed within two years, and the wooding industry is planning to take on action in the education of birchs in the coming autumn to become contractors for that work. It is estimated to set about 5 billion. K. in this. Third, a national embezzlement for forest development will be carried out by fences growing, and fourth, a grazing campaign will be under attack. A senator asked for exactly what was to happen, in the crops of woodforestation. They put about 20 billion. K. on that task. Fifthly, a joint agreement with Vistity in Akureyri was signed on a wide range of work projects for the use of molta, including to forestry near Akureyri and Hólardi The project, as well as the Ministry and the Vist energy, Akureyri City, Energy Station, Molta, the Forest Farm, the National Park, and Iceland's National Institute of Agriculture. This is a project that costs a total of over 45 million. K. and the Ministry puts a third in it, 15 million. Then I'm asked if it's possible to speed up forestry projects with shame and notice. A wide variety of forest crops can be rushed in many parts of the earth with shame as long as plants exist if they are talking about planting. I also mentioned campaigns at seeding and the growth of fences and, as a matter of fact, do not repeat them. Within forestry legislation there are anti-forestation contracts that can increase the speed of projects. There is a possibility that farmers can take on more projects, and with shame we feel that various projects, especially in the recovery of birch forests, could speed up where the emphasis is on building new, decompositioned ecosystems. Examples of such cooperation projects in the forest and in the land - healing industry are Hicklu forests, the Village Forests, and Hólares. We are also looking at other areas that could fit into this category of projects. With as little warning as we were talking about this year, perhaps we are primarily talking about recovery projects, birch, wide, and so long as we can look further into the future. I also want to make sure that we always need to bear in mind, in my opinion, the combined effects of action on carbon dioxide binding and the activities of plant and soil protection. I have stressed that we are working on many important goals at once and that our commitment to international agreements on climate, biodiversity, and defenses against desertification are guaranteed, for example.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u36	Mr. President. It's a good conversation, and I thank them for holding them up. All I want to do is echo the world's call for increased forestry everywhere and encourage it in Iceland by all means. We know the part of trees in carbon binding. Carbon equation is another concept that we can use. An economic approach is often appropriate. For the council, the Senate bill holds that the tax, as it were, can be taken from 0.85 percent for carbon balance. I hope it works here. When we talk about forests, we talk about crops. There are many fields, but there are also the Icelandic jungles, birch forests and tree - tree trees. [[The president calls.]] I encourage us to put a real test on these topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u37	A respectable president. I get involved in this discussion like others to support the importance of forestry. Foresting is a requirement for many, and it is important in times such as now, as in other times. In particular, I would like to say that some 650 world rulers have made contracts for crops. It's probably been planted for about a while. half of the country that has been set aside for this purpose has been put to work to organize, so there are great opportunities. Then I just want to say that I am very happy with the strength that can create employment and new valuables, but I also want us to use this time to improve our places in the jungles, walks, and conditions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u38	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his excellent answers and positive comments to my questions. Actually, I have some comments. I'm going to talk about a carbon equation that I didn't do in my previous speech. Today, all efforts are made to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to prevent their impact on the climate of the globe, according to one estimate. Of course, I'm not going to minimize that effort, not at all, but the obvious thing for us Icelanders is, of course, that carbon balances all of our emissions by letting trees bind these materials into profitable wood. Forest development is the most important and efficient natural method available for the world's population to carbon binding. That is where we should use as much as possible the most stringed tree species. V.E.G. A minister repeatedly speaks of a birch. On the average, while a good birch forest binds at best 3 tons, the average Greek forest binds about 10 tons of carbon per hectare per year of the country. Asparforest can bind up to 23 tons per hectare a year. What is more obvious? It takes only 2% of the country to tie up all the carbon we release. What are people waiting for? I may not be talking about going into this in an instant, but what are people waiting for? Are they waiting to buy expensive disposal clearances after a few years? Are they going to wait for the bear to handle this? I have nothing against a bear, our birch jungles are beautiful, but in order to meet our contract obligations under the Paris Convention, we need to bind carbon. We're not going to pay and buy a few years of disposal when we're all about to tie up all our carbons on this land. [[The president calls.]] Let's start with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The manager and other members of the council who are involved in the discussion for this fine discussion. Hv. A senator enters carbon binding as an important way of working on climate. I'll agree with that with what's happened. A senator, it is of utmost importance, but when it comes to emissions and reducing emissions, the carbon binding can never take the place of reducing emissions. It can come as a replacement, making us even more effective. We'll never be able to reduce any emissions in 2021, we know that, but we can cut it down in part, and the carbon binding will come later if we try to recover the non-carbon and equalize what we cannot reduce the emissions. When it comes to emissions, a reduction in emissions of the main component of the Paris Convention, i.e. We have to reduce emissions. It is important that in the long future, we look at a economy that is not driven by fossil fuels but, rather, an economy driven by renewable energy sources. In order to reduce emissions, our energy systems need to be controlled so that we have a energy system that uses renewable energy, not the current emissions. Of course, carbon binding is important, but it does not take the place of reducing emissions. I just want to say, in the end, it's important that we can continue to add funding to these factors, both agriculture and forestry, as they are an essential factor in government and Iceland's climate policies. [[The president calls.]] Thank you. A senator once more for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u40	Mr. President. I'm also glad to have a word with a minister for the price of waste, for I have sent him only two questions about the same subject of this council and the answers to the ones I so thank you very much. They were very illuminating, so I decided to ask an oral reply to discuss the same subject further with a minister. Before reading the questions, I'd like to bring the correcting that we realize, that clean water is very important in the near future. True, as many say, it is a future resource, but we cannot be known for the waste of all sorts of soils. I don't think we're saying we're doing it. Of course, there are rules and suggestions on this subject, but I wanted to hear from the highest level. Rather, a minister of what requirements are made for appointment. We have some now. As indicated by his response to my inquiry, they have declined greatly, but we also have old zones that concern me. Looks like the highest. Also, a minister is concerned with his answer to his last request for old meeting places. If it is a very old watchpoint, it may not be much like it to have substances that will have serious harmful effects and live for a long time. However, those places where there has been waste in the last 50 to 170 years need all the attention. I'm celebrating with the highest. The minister of his answer says that in the Department of Ministers there is a map of these places and that there is much more to learn about them. I'm worried about this. I think we're gonna have to take good care of our country, and I think we're gonna have to take care of our water protection, make sure we have enough water for the future, and don't waste anything that's gonna come back to us later. There, too, I can give a new example. A few days ago, an oil - contaminated soil came excavated on the fields of Old age. There are these situations that we need to look out for, I don't talk about if such an example is found more widely and perhaps more than where the water is. [[The president calls.]] I can't wait to hear the top. A minister answers my questions that I have not had the opportunity to read.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for the inquiry and for bringing up the threat and handling of waste during the council. First question. The senator was about what plans a minister had to take to reduce the waste of the country each year. By 2018, there were over 1,16,000 tons of waste in this country. It was similar to the amount that grew each year for the previous three years, meaning that almost 17% of all wastes that fell to that year became available. It is very important to respond to the situation, since the cost of waste disposal is the lazyest option we already have to treat waste. There may be two specific contexts in this context. The poor management of the natural resources that went into production of the materials or parts before it became waste. Waste also follows emissions of greenhouse gases and emissions of pollutants in soil and water, such as water. A senator entered in his inquiry. Waste generation can be reduced, e.g. by reducing waste and bringing in the so - called cycle economy we're working on in the Ministry. The need for the increase is diminished if there are little or no wastes. Therefore, it is reducing him of the most important work we do. I'd like to specifically mention a policy set up in the Ministry a few years ago and I'd be together for waste. I'm also calling a climate action program that'll deal with this. The combined waste management plan emphasises the reduction of food waste production, the reduction of plastic pollution, and the reduction of textilisation. All of these are factors that we are active now in the Ministry, especially in food waste and plastic pollution. At the same time, the internalisation of the circuit economy, as I did earlier, is assumed to be the waste that falls to most of it for recycling, not to be made. I'd like to mention two things in this context. In order to reduce waste prices and support recycling, we work to reduce sentry taxes and to implement specific collections of household waste, and then to place regulations on individual and domestic wastes and household wastes, including structural and demolition waste. These are, of course, factors that are of vital importance to try to reduce the price and reduce the tendency to grow. It then suggests that as a principle simply a ban on waste waste disposal, which must be collected specifically, including organic waste, and to support innovation in recycling. Today an analysis of the need for waste management is also being made in Iceland to determine if waste dumps are essential in a future view of the economy or not. We are also reviewing a national waste management programme and I hope to introduce it later this year. The other question. The senator was about how to reduce the damage caused by waste. First of all, the amount of waste that may appear may have to be reduced. Action in that situation was mentioned in the answer to the first question. However, once waste has been removed at the local level, it is important that the operator uses appropriate protective measures to minimise environmental pressures. The waste waste management directive provides the minimum waste pollution prevention requirements required for the management of the business to be considered legitimate, such as storage of dump gas, bottom and side of the local environment, etc. It also recommends internal monitoring and monitoring of the operator's local pollution and of environmental pollution pressures. Of course, this should be discussed on the license of the Marketing Authorisation and subject to official follow-up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u42	Mr. President. Thank you for your fine discussion. In accordance with the waste management legislation, it is a rural administration that determines the collection of household and business resources within the local community. Therefore, it is up to each government to list the duties of waste. The route is different and often much inconsistencies between local wastes. A minister's reply to me in February of last year showed that there was no overview of the rural system. The EEA does not receive information on the size of the classifications or on which the Agency is classified or at all. The EU budget for the recycling economy provides a national input through the EEA Convention. I'll let me put that question to the highest level. Minister on the basis of this subject. Is there an overview of how rural society is involved or how they plan to organize this important environmental issue? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u43	Mr. President. I'm just gonna take this opportunity and bring a short introductory for a second. One inquirer asked about the damage caused by the threat. I found out when I was doing a TV show that several of the country's guards are very large. We can mention the Geirsnef, in Reykjavík and the former Gufusesor, where huge amounts of non-class waste are in the groundwater currents where materials are being flushed into the environment. In many parts of the world, there has been a talk, and it was only discussed in these areas by taking such a warning up, passing through them, using material from them, and setting up a different front. I'm not suggesting this, but I'm sure it's a subject that's going to have to go on better. Now these haystacks, as in Gufunesi, are on the watch for gas emissions, but this is still an interesting subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u44	President. Thank you very much. Ministers for his excellent answers and members of the council who participated in the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in to pick up old watchpoints, but I don't know if I'm demanding it. However, we need to be careful that these places are not in areas where groundwater can be contaminated. If they're that old, there could be surgery. I especially welcome the highest words. Ministers in which he spoke of the practicality of building a garbage incinerator. I remind them that I have twice made a pact proposal to build here a high-tech dump because, of course, we are to reduce the waste, whether we like it better or worse. I agree with the Minister on it. We're supposed to recycle as much as possible the trash, and I'm actually celebrating it. We're supposed to keep going that way, but I'm afraid there'll always be something that's burning, and we're talking tens of thousands of tons, even more than 100, no matter how much results are going to be made from recycling and contractions. I have pointed out a much better solution to this waste, to extract from its product, to use its source, to use its energy, now that such combustible and high - tech chemicals are much more eco-friendly than environmentally worthy and, of course, than to send waste out of the country at all the cost and emissions that result. I further encourage ministers to consider the practicality of building such a station here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u45	V.E.G. President. I thank the senators for sharing in this discussion. You're right next door. paritaprevir The Guðjón S., Brjánsson's God, there is no overview of what is grouped and about the classifications between rural unions. We are looking at how such information can be collected in one place in cooperation with the national branch society on the development of such information. I hope that some project can start this year. Hv. A senator merely introduced the inconsistencies of rural society. There's something we need to deal with, and I'm going to recommend that there be a grouping between local members in a bill I plan to bring to the council in the fall and that I put on a party like I came into my previous answer. With regard to the incinerators, I would like to have information on the quantity we could expect to burn when we have met the obligations and targets set for recycling before making decisions about whether or where or by what means we will be involved in waste management. I'd like to end up with only the discussion that took place here on old-time watchpoints from soil pollution and report here that in my Ministry, we are now working on a new recommendation in the Icelandic principle of setting up a regulation on polluted soil. There we look at them even. to map and find an overview of areas where contaminated soil might be. Then some sort of work could be based on whether or not it needs to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u46	Mr. President. There is no need for many of the importance of health care, and I am happy to have a place to speak at the highest level. Health Minister on the issues, mainly the changes in the health - care organization in Iceland, which began more than a decade ago. The number of people we called hospitals then, or at least and that. The management and services of these institutions were being altered, e.g. ... ina nursing agency or something. The reorganization and expansion of e.g. Service area. This was partly about the largest hospitals that were then known as medical institutions in a certain district. These are places such as the hospitals at Acdéri, Isafjord, Akureyri, Nesmore, Selephoss, and Smokenestown, who are now health - care centers in many larger areas of the world, nursing homes, and coordinated medical transportation by respondents, etc. This is a big change. In some cases it has been said that this has been reduced, and, of course, it can be said in part, yes. Even simple surgery at specific hospitals, appendic surgery, could no longer be done there, etc., but improved service levels were being performed in a way that included more and more intensive health care, with more close - care for the elderly, etc. All of us agree on the importance of predestination, and this was a means of strengthening them to a degree. One of these factors is increased transport pressures, and by constant request for improvement in the road system in particular, public transportation even or air transport, etc. Because many of the services may be large and must go quite far in order to qualify for service. But all of this is known, and it is really time to ask, both from the government's new health policy, which I am basically agreeing with and cheered very much, what experience there is in changing organization after these many years and in a long process of changes that has undoubtedly been slided on chapters. What about the quality? What about the use of funds? What about the service stage? This is a big group of paintings, and I realize it's hard to answer all of this in a short period of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u47	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has directed to me a question designed to change the organization, the quality of service, and the access of it after the years that have gone by to change the service organization outside the capital area. Like what? A senator rightly goes over to his question is this far - reaching and not that we finish that discussion here. But I would like to thank you for giving me an opportunity to communicate only with me as it is right now. In fact, we look at the changes that have taken place in modern society over the past few decades that society's development is moving increasingly toward urban areas. The change in health science, however, moves the service towards a greater degree of differentiation, compression, but there must be an increase in importance for the security of any of these baseline areas; health care, aging services, rehabilitation, simpler hospital services designed for the local population and should be stable and secure. The change in health chemistry at the time was aimed at ensuring the basic services the inhabitants need, as well as the expertise that suits situations in which small and unique health institutions were actually ill at that time. They needed to unite in order to facilitate changing circumstances, but also to increase the strength of the area as a whole and to reach more self - custody, in fact, more independence in the region in order to develop the ministry on their own terms. That was the thought. The unity took place in steps and at all times according to their judgment, both professional and financial. The good results are primarily an increase in the stability of the ministry and the increased opportunities for development. The unity made it easier to approach equal service to the population, regardless of the population, and equality among employees and allows for more intensive staff services. Then there was rather a chance to participate in education and professional training of the profession within an institution that can be a key to innovation. Health care services are provided in all health care districts and are organized by the health care department of each district. Health - care centres are widely available, and bioavailability is generally somewhat good in the region. Sadly, though, this is not true of the busiest areas in which health - care centers have been difficult, especially in recent years. The healthcare community unity has provided a basis for their managers to find solutions to these problems most effectively by organizing the service and ensuring access to health care by maintaining a complete view of the territory and by making arrangements to save as necessary. It is my opinion that in general it has been successful with the unifications that have been under attack in the past 20 years. There's even a problem. The results of the 2012 work group, then assigned by the local minister, to process a Boston Consulting Group report and returned the Health Organization and Reorganisation report. It revealed that the institutions had grown stronger and that their services had become more self - preserved on their own business, etc. It has also been concluded by the director that the healthcare community integration in certain areas has increased teamwork and cross-cutting cooperation. It is also a general tendency, simply in the development of health care, that there is a great deal of strength in greater cooperation and work done in the widest part of the world. A special report by the National Reconquisition for Health Care in the country since 2018 shows that it is the assessment of health - care providers that the overall cohesion within the medical community would have been well available and practical, particularly in the management field. The 2009 Commission's 2009 National Reexamination of the Eastern Institute of Health holds that there are some results that have been achieved together, including some of the results. has become more diverse, more stable, etc. The development of the Norse Health Organization (National Health Organization) has been identified in a new medical policy to 2030. Service territory has been expanded, organized as first, second, and third phase services. The first stage is health care, and the third stage is a high - tech hospital. It is important to consider whether there is a need to go further in the same direction through a collective service arrangement, such as various neighboring nations, to ensure adequate and professional management and to create adequate employment without the limitations of the services. Then we're talking about the possibility of integrating more, possibly in cooperation with local communities, social services, etc. The basic concept of health policy is that the director of the health care facility in that area is also the district manager of the local health care department and has her organization to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u48	A respectable president. I thank you for the leader and the highest. Healthcare Minister for very interesting and important discussions. It is true that health - care programs in the country are changing rapidly and have changed in recent years. I think history's judgment on whether it was right to unite health institutions or not is that it was the right thing to do. In fact, there are some opportunities that can be ruined. There are seven health problems, and more opportunities are needed to do so. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in this regard because we're talking about health institutions outside the capital area: there were organizational changes in the capital area of the core service, incentives that were intended for many to walk, people to debate about it. But what about the region? How does a minister see that this can develop in the same way, in a practical way, in the country's country, that there are incentives to pursue the marvelously educated professional? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers and the what. A senator for the additions here. I'm not going to put this into words very much, just reminding us that in this matter of telepathy, how important they could be in this process all along, it's probably not over and it's never over. Similarly, we've talked about improved medical transportation. One thing, like a special hospital helicopter in the South, etc. There must be something else to consider. But I would like to add one question to the highest level. Minister. This is where we were starting this terms, making some kind of national service card, i.e. that there were a variety of services, including health care, for the other parts of the country and the rest of these urban areas outside the capital area, how those living there could have attended their services and how this map would go. I thought it was a very clever idea, so this is the only question. But I'm still reiterate the importance of telepathy... and, at this point, as it were, as a full-time medical service.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u50	A respectable president. Thank you again for the questions and whats. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson for his improvements. I think we can say, in many ways now we are in such an additional phase of learning, this epidemic of the Icelandic health system. As we always face disasters such as the Icelandic community today, we find the greatest strengths of our systems and also the greatest weaknesses they have, so we see a bit quickly into the rotunda of what we have in our community. There are many factors in the response of Icelandic health care that give us reason to be very proud of our health - care system. It's in the foundation of a public health system, that's the way we've chosen to go in Iceland. It's a success. That's the way it's about having a cohesive and potent public health system where the factors play together and people talk to each other. At my time, I've made a consistent discussion with all the directors of health care institutions that are very important in this situation and have been very successful with the Covid-19 pandemic. There these directors have supported one another and have endured these challenges together. Hv. paritaprevir Brjánsson wondered about this with the motivations that have certainly been tested in the capital area and given much of the opportunity, but this is not a permanent arrangement. We're driving under the shadow, as it is now, a payment model for health care in the country. We are doing this in 2020 to see how we need to adapt our system to different conditions in the scattered areas and in the capital area here, and I expect it to bring a good system out of it, so it's a plan. I'll agree with that as long as possible. A senator mentioned by means of telecommunication, emergency services, and medical transportation. [[The president calls.]] The Service Card is on the table of local Ministers, I've seen it subtracted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u51	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you a question to the highest level. A health secretary to see if there is good reason to believe that there is any basis for determining the possibility that patients with chronic diseases and nursing homes will have access to a confidant who could be consulted with personal concerns and if necessary follow them. We know the role of sponsors in the workplace. Although the two are not compatible, in many respects the thought is similar, i.e. being able to trust someone who would be a health - care provider and comply with the rights of patients. Many people live with chronic illnesses, some for decades. An average of 70 - year - olds have two or three long - term health problems. It is well known that in many cases the group needs to consult the physician or other health care providers who are associated with them may have difficulty providing or even not being present where the patient lives. Thus, only a few clinics are available, and doctors or nurses who are most in contact with patients often do not recommend alternative treatment options, e.g. how to turn within the medical system for reimbursement and recovery. Or the person may find it difficult to present personal matters that are directed toward someone who cares for him during his illness. Often, patients need to seek information or advice that does not involve complaint and therefore do not have the best option to end all aspects of the land surgeon's table. Anxiety may turn to communication, lack of information, or the best way to look next, so to speak. This may also be difficult at smaller sites where healthcare professionals may have a stent, especially access to experts. In nursing homes, it is often difficult to discern the rights of people. Often, members of the household and caregivers hold back from offering complaints that can be understood as faultfinders. Because of the family's unique relationship with their main caregivers, it is often difficult to seek their advice. Therefore, it is asked whether a minister would feel the need to appoint a confidant to people with long - standing diseases and residents in nursing homes or a spokesman for these groups. Such an agent might be for counselling patients and members of the nursing facility and caring for the role I have mentioned above. You might also think that such a confidant or an agent could be consulted by his or her family, especially when it comes to brain - related individuals or people whose circumstances are affected by illness or a difficult situation find it difficult to seek information for themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry is about the confidence of people with chronic diseases and residents of nursing homes. Hv. A senator asks if I believe that the nominee will be a confidential person in such a position or another spokesman for those groups. I believe it is right in my answer that I make a few words... to a synonym... which was directed to the social and child - care minister at the moment. The members of Inga Sæland and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson had to deal with the elderly's interests. It was the thought of drawing attention to the elderly in general, more on national level, or some such office, and giving counsel on their rights, taking initiatives in the personal interest of senior citizens, etc. Although they are important, they hear under the Department of Social Affairs, so this certainly is an overlap. But I understand why. A member of the council is here talking about a confidant for a solution to matters pertaining to health care. That is why my answer to that factor is, of course, a lot of thinking. First, I'd like to say that the discussion that comes up here is given a reason. This is because they wonder whether with the present system it is absolutely certain that wishes, wills, etc. Those who are chronically ill and who live in nursing homes are well cared for. Also, there are probably cases where people feel that they do not have enough access to information, etc. And because this also discusses the status of family members and family members, there may be some complex communication in families, although it is an individual who may be the oldest in the family in a nursing home and has the right to his privacy, because it is one of our discussions here, and who shows respect for possible complex family relationships and problems that have not been resolved in early family history. It is also important to keep in mind. Hv. At the end of the question, a senator may wonder, especially on matters that involve the position of people with congestive heart failure. In effect, though, we are discussing an even more important tool that would be needed to ensure that all means are called out and left with the individual's will. As a community, we have to go very far in it, with people who for some reason do not have a position to distinguish their own will or priorities, seek ways to call out for them to do so. Of course, it is important in this discussion that the work of health - care professionals involves helping their clients, and it is, in fact, their legal obligation as public employees. 14th degree. The law on the rights and duties of public employees says: To help those to whom he is speaking, a member of the staff is obliged to offer needed help and guidance, including pointing to it, if that is the case, where to approach him. How important it is, then, that we also keep to what are the duties of those who serve in nursing homes and those who live with chronic illnesses. In this context, it also states that in the Department of Health Care for Health Care, health care should be actively involved in the communication and coordination of patients. It is also assumed that there are ways to make comments, with a client's comments. I know why. A senator knows of these paths. The complaint can be directed to the administration, there are ways to avoid the office of surgeons, etc. But I know why. A senator may not be talking about it but, rather, what is involved in daily life. The numbers of older citizens and various patient groups have also protected the interests of these groups and want to set up this matter. I want to thank you at the end of my first reply. A senator for setting this up because I think the discussion is urgent and has something to do with it. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and we're going to discuss this after the weekend, i.e. that all people have the right to respect them and their positions, regardless of their position in other respects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A fine speech for Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir. I'd like to come to a few things. That's exactly what it is. A minister entered, that it is so important that the patient's will, the will of the individual who receives the service, succeeds. We've had such a life form, but unfortunately, it hasn't been used much, including. because of some mistakes that humans have been able to point to, but the record is a potential tool. It may also be taken into account that a certain person who is in contact with a patient, not necessarily his or her doctor or nurse, could be entrusted with this role but even with some other health care professional, so that special positions were not being assigned. This has even been true. have been tried in many parts of the world, called the English - language language of the so - called Caare Coordinator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u54	The President kindly reminds us that the matter of Congress is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u55	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I think it's very important that we take this discussion, whatever the way it would be, it's not exactly the main thing, it's that people who are in a place where they have to spend a long time in a medical facility - young people, older people, middle - aged people, they can be all sorts of people involved - have a chance to have full dignity and can follow their own wishes, wishes, and wills. It does not mean that a person has to present such matters to a surgeon or further in a complaint style. Rather, he has a certain person who can be trusted for something that has come up and who is able to confront him as to what is best to do and to seek his or her rights and ask questions about certain matters that concern the person's health and well - being. V.E.G. A minister mentioned that, in fact, each health - care worker was obliged to perform this role in some way, and I pondered it. Knowing that the courts are for the disabled, we can say that this may be a bit of a conclusion that a patient whom they wish for it to be with a health care professional, where he is, could be considered to be a confidant. If the person would trust himself to be, I think there could be one of those things that would be a solution in this, at least to try something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u56	A respectable president. This shows what this part of the program is capable of, where ideas will be developed, and we are just wondering what will be the most clearly understood way in relation to the current set of laws, to meet this need. I think it's also important that we're not necessarily inventing any new methods when they may be there. I don't know. I feel like this idea is going to happen. The senator is very good, and I think it is an idea that could be implemented in individual nursing homes and continued testing that the inhabitants get contacts and that they could possibly choose their contacts after some time or trust, or what we would call them. It may be a little parallel to that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson refers to some form of co-ordination in the ministry - I dare no less, a respectable president than to speak Icelandic here. But then I may find something interesting that has happened before when we have been discussing service with the elderly, a discussion that focused on the fact that the need for service is gradually growing as people grow older. First, she has to focus on the need for some home - service and possibly home or some food, and then the need for a nursing home and increased home service, daily training, and then a nursing home. One might wonder, " Is it not the most reasonable thing to think about, so that the person who serves as a service is first one of his own team managers or self in the coordination of the ministry and sit at the tableman in setting up a string on how to provide the ministry? ' I know there's a bit of a turn away from what we're used to thinking. But if we were to put ourselves in these steps, we would rather be more inclined to be more fortunate in them until, of course, it is time for us not to handle them, and then we need to do so naturally and in a way that honors people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u57	A new president in a good way that Icelandic is the matter of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u58	Mr. President. People's weekend is a major part of the public sector. Healthcare Minister and the basic concept of self-determination, which may be considered as part of the privacy of the individual population, includes such factors as the patient's rights, personal details, and irreversible intervention in the bodies of members of the individual population. sensitive groups. On the other hand, privacy includes allowing people to make decisions about invasive matters in their bodies, rejecting such interventions, and even making informed decisions as many others did would be unwise. For a well-being committee it's the highest eulogy proposal. Health Minister on moral values and priorities in health care. In the proposal, there is a weekend, one of the key minds, and the moral values that should be guided by priorities. Thus it is decided that if any values are more important when making basic decisions, they will be obtained. Thus, respect for privacy will always be in the foreground and is the basis of another position and the basis for decision making. Whether the term can usually be defined once and for all and even preferred is wondered. In this way, it is possible that a human vision of what is most important in the weekend of life may be quite different from that of 100 years ago and will change over the next 100 years. Thus, whether by evolution in science and technology it is inevitable that each generation will define the concept. 100 years ago, access to all kinds of personal information, e.g. anything but today. The information that was then most important may not be important today or vice versa. Protection of information about the individual is believed to be important today, in fact, as one breath of respect for the weekend. Such concepts as personal space were hardly known at the beginning of the last century. In that case, we may still have trouble respecting such space or territory. You can see this, for example. is clear in medical institutions around the world. A minister's staff of forced treatment recently provided proposals for a minister, just as it discusses a very sensitive group in which respect for the individual's immunity may conflict with the view of health care or other health problems evaluated by the health system or relatives on grounds other than the weak. Thus, it is even more important to discuss such matters as being alive within the medical system and the presence of public consciousness. It may also be thought that in the educational field of health, there must be room for such fundamental concepts as in the course of ongoing and re-education. Then you might wonder, " Is the government not to take special advantage of public discussions about the subject? ' In this regard, we will see in these critical times all kinds of news that will help us to see the importance of the concept and speculation of it constantly in our discussion. I finally refer to the questions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u59	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson has addressed to me a verbal request for the term "sanity " in three teams. The Senator first asks if the Minister feels that the definition is adequate in the laws of the Ministry's topic. Legally, the Ministry's topic field refers to the concept "Security," e.g. the legislation on scientific examination of health and the patient's rights. On the other hand, there is no direct explanation of the concept of the law that falls under the topic range, but in the legal evidence that follows the law, there is a substance to explain the concept. It contains, for example, Refer to the Legal Dictionary and the European Convention of Human Rights. Therefore, it is not really possible to answer whether the term itself is adequately defined in the law. It is defined, not directly in the law, but by the documentation that refer to other data. The concept, for example, is expressed in the scientific field. clearly in the bill's report, not in the law itself. It says, by permission of the president: The People's weekend is based on an explanation of the Law code's law protection of the rights closest to man, i.e. life, limbs, honor and privacy. Two. The arrangement is set aside to guide the views of ethics, science, and the protection of the police. Hv. A senator asks if a minister feels that the concept of immunity could be expressed more clearly by law in the Ministry's topic field or in other ways. In answer, then, there is no direct use of the term in legislation today, as we have seen, but it is used in certain laws and content as described in the paragraphs. It may be wise to define the term more clearly in the legal text of a health - care minister's topic than as well. In his question, a senator may be, in part, the understanding of the term depends on the frequent spirit of each occasion and on other developments, the concept of evolution, the position of human rights, and other such factors. Hv. A senator asks if a minister thinks it is possible to match the definition of the term or its specific basics, e.g. law on the Ministry case. It is possible to synchronize definitions of terms in the law. This, however, requires preparation and a great deal of work to succeed. As indicated by the question of why. I recently proposed a proposal for a resolution of moral values and priorities in health care, which is one of the values proposed to be guided. Here, the term is defined primarily by a purpose, i.e. Priorities in Icelandic health care, as almost an tool. On the other hand, there is nothing to prevent this definition from forming in accordance with the laws of the topic field. According to a paper that follows the Council's Syllabic arrangement, immunity is defined as "the space of every person on the inside, with an emphasis on respect for each individual's dignity and in all possible circumstances. It also says that the term involves: 'gentle men are equal and have the same right to protect and maintain health, and that they are recognized and recognized by public rights.' This requires respecting these viewpoints so that a person's humanity is respected. It also involves a measure of respect for the self - sufficiency of users of health care, as we do in the weeks only in the previous discussion. The importance of privacy is emphasized in the synopsis proposal where immunity should exceed any other value of the proposal and be fundamental to it. It is important that values are guided by health care decisions, both governments, health - care professionals, and health care professionals. The concept of immunity in this synonym is, in part, interpreted more clearly than based solely on views such as on privacy. This is moral values that have been set aside for setting priorities in health care and includes that all humans are equal and have the right to protect health and preserve life, so that this is a relatively broad definition, and that they recognize and universal rights are respected, as is the cry of justice and order. That's how it is, for example. to some extent more than e.g. the definition of the Law Dictionary of the concept of weekend, referred to in the paper on scientific research in the medical field. As we have considered, the definition of this term in the lyrics of a law has both a pros and a flaw. On the other hand, it is possible to do so by reason of reason. The welfare committee will conclude with a discussion of the terms and priorities of health care matters that the Committee is in a certain way dealing with this definition and whether it is presented sufficiently there and if it might be drawn from the general conclusion of the comparable concept in the legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u60	President. In this discussion, we are talking about humanity, or weekend, as it is translated in Icelandic. It is defined in the European Convention of Human Rights, which is a law in Iceland, and it does not come out of nothing. We'll see how it is attached to the German constitution. After World War II, people saw the need to watch over us and set one value above all after the calamities they suffered. It was a weekend. So, as shown here, the weekend is about life, about a person's body, his identity, and his reputation. That's what we're going to defend. That's what it's all about. So all ideas of changing it, changing wording, and so forth must be extremely careful that otherwise we can lose it because it is defined in international politics and their constitutions, where it has come from many places. Especially when it is time for medical care. If this weekend isn't the top, if we're on the e.g. Getting to the point where doctors can make decisions, not on the basis of an individual in front of them, is a trust in medical care. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why these things are inside the oath. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and the question. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for the comment. I agree with what was presented in a case. A senator here needs to be gently stepd to the ground. That is why the discussion is so important. That is why it is so important that we understand what we are talking about and that we look to many topics to see and sense what people are thinking. What thoughts might be involved? It is certainly defined in many ways, but only in the terms of the covenants. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson mentioned. In some respects it is patted to stone, but in reality as the term human dignity rather than human laziness, which would be rather where the term has been known as the English human sanctity to be true. Mr. President will forgive this English trash, I suppose. So there is a complex question. V.E.G. A minister entered the important issue, e.g. In this, on the one hand in the equality and the other, the concept of justice is of utmost importance because we have to wonder: Can someone other than myself make decisions about my core values, and if it is, I don't have to decide who it might be and can't always change my mind? That is what we need to keep in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u62	A respectable president. I still appreciate it. A senator as well. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for his comment. It is not often that we discuss this sort of thing here at a council hall, where we are relevant, absolute terms, their importance, their common understanding of valuable texts, such as human rights agreements, Constitutions, etc. and what it means, then, as the basis for legislation and decision making in a righteous and good society. We don't really talk about it. But maybe we should always be talking about it because if we had a clear compass, we might be better at where we were going. But that's exactly why, because this has also been a talk about an extensive community discussion, which I emphasized at the General Assembly in the late autumn, we talked for a whole day just about values and priorities in health care. Experts, philosophers, doctors, nurses, sociologists, and political people spoke about it: Is it beneficial for us to get along with our understanding of priorities and values in health care? Our answer was clear: Yes, we can benefit from doing so. Some countries around us have gone even further, where such texts are part of the legislation. We're trying to get started like this, to have it in a Senate resolution and a Senate resolution that would be as parapolitic as possible because such work cannot stand and fall by a government or turn upside down by election. I have a lot of expectations for this job, and I want to thank you. A senator for taking this dirty case on the program because there's really something in such a way that you feel that you have somehow come to a different seminar than when you are discussing matters that are part of your daily routine. But maybe this is the most important discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u63	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for taking good care of my inquiry. It is not clear that high levels of alcohol and alcohol abuse and the use of other substances have serious consequences for society in general; health problems, accidents, unemployment, and long - term social problems. Significant success has been achieved here in reducing alcohol and drug abuse among young people. However, the situation in treatment homes is truly serious. They are fired with limited funding and are a means of employing, and a number of employees with varying degrees of substance and alcohol abuse are in the post-treatment waiting lists. There's going to be more serious problems in society. The Hospital's mental ward is not critical, and the situation is extremely narrow and often serious. At the same time, laws are presented that are designed to facilitate the consumption of drugs and to increase access to alcohol. Economic gains by strengthening and helping people to gain health are calculated to billions of dollars and to profit from gaining employment and living quality of life cannot be valued for financial gain. Behind every person who consumes is a lot of caregivers, parents, and children. A respectable president. It should help people to gain quality of life and skills. There is, therefore, much to be sought when discussing strengthening the position of treatment homes in the country. So I ask the minister: 1st Has a minister's plans for how the health system will react if the waiting of the treatment system for alcohol and drug addicts is extended, if there is a approved court order on the use of alcohol, on the trade, and on the use of alcohol? 2. Is the cost of the above - mentioned health bills, the state's funds, the community as a whole, the law, and if not, then would it not be reasonable to believe that such a cost would be met? 3. Will it be avoided to increase the possibility of alcohol and drug addicts to exploit their therapeutic options?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u64	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson refers to me as a verbal inquiry on how to react to laws on illegal consumption doses, the sale of alcohol at the Web site, and the consumption room that actually became legal today. These are three issues of a wide variety of backgrounds. First of all, there is a bill about selling alcoholic beverages at a Congregation Book of Justice, but it has not been established into the General Assembly. Second, it is a bill of criminal consumption dosed by Congress. Third, it is a government bill. The senator first asks if a minister has plans to see how the health system will respond if the waiting beds of treatment are extended to be accepted by the legislatures. Now there may be a bit of a misunderstanding about the question in that regard - and then I just want to talk about a case under my office, which is a decision on consumption. The purpose of providing that bill is harmful, not to get people to stop using drugs in the vein. It's not about that. It's a harmful matter. In other words, it is thought to add to existing measures in society, such as treatments, but it has been a weakness in Icelandic society not to offer legislation on destructive measures. Of course, Mrs. Ragnhei has had her own business, and I could tell you today from the decision to add, for the sake of Covid-19, to the management board of Mrs. Ragnhem because of the importance of this service to avoid accidental death at the most severe. Hv. A senator asks if waitings for treatment are extended. Hv. A senator uses the word "beyond " but there's only one place that would be defined that way. It's Hilvekot, driven by Sam help. There people stay for three months and receive social rehabilitation with the presence of health care services, and it cannot be seen that these three primary products have a major impact on the position of the waiting list for that treatment. I suppose that's what. A senator is also asking about the U.S.A., but at a health conference to 2030, the importance of getting right health care at the right stage is expressed. And the procedure should be carried out in such a way that based on professional assessments the proper service at an appropriate service stage is performed. Of course, it should be noted that not everyone needs an introduction service to solve his consumption and addiction problem but that some may be able to start a walking out of public service and other less effective measures. The Agency's walking services have brought us good results, and using simpler resources gives us room for more and helps to shorten a waiting list. It's all in progress. It's very positive. Hv. A senator asks if there are costs to the impact of the bill. There is a cost to the current bill and to ensure that the state is expected to provide 50 million each year to run against the local community that wishes to run such activity. I have no access to this cost assessment of the other two bills. The bill of the Minister of Justice has not yet been seen, and the other is a matter of Congress, but it is obligatory to the government to evaluate the financial impact of each occasion so that I expect it to be done. Hv. A senator asks if the possibility of alcohol and drug addicts should be increased by the use of special treatments approved by these bills. Of course, it is important for a professional assessment to lead to some who are referred to options that produce the best results, i.e. correct health care at the right stage of service. On the other hand, a person's right to make decisions about his own life and on his own health is to be respected. Some people, out of difficult circumstances, are not equipped to seek medical care according to standard procedures. It can, for example, be here. these are people who are led far by addiction and even homeless. We have as a community to reach out to that people, and that's what I want to do. With regard to the sale of alcohol at the Web site, the surgeon's office has strongly opposed this. There is only a limited availability of alcohol that can be effective and effective in reducing harmful effects from alcohol use. In this regard, I agree with the opinion of a surgeon in the field.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u65	President. Strong prevention among young people has reduced the use of drug abuse by young people in the past decade. Prevention's working. Otherwise, consumption has not been reduced here in Iceland in spite of criminal policies that are so severe that people who make the mistake of becoming addicted to drugs do not live in the same world of justice and security as the rest of us. People who suffer from drug abuse are in constant danger of losing their freedom, their homes, their children, their violence, their sex slaves, their financial resources, and their non - medical services. The course of punishment is a terrible cruel course, and I think only those who believe that cruelty can justify that course. That is why it is important to ask: Has criminalism worked? International comparisons show that science and humanity have worked. Annual experience with consumers in Switzerland and criminal abuse of drug drugs in Portugal has reduced the mortality rate of drug abuse, the decrease in crime and the reduction in disease. Is it really surprising that science and humanity are more effective in helping sick people than in being cruel to them? Is it not time to stop punishing people for taking drugs?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u66	A respectable president. In the bill we agreed on today, people are being guided by the human nature and practicality of the subject, paying attention to a large group of people who have been cut off and have no understanding; a group we can all agree on that we do not want to exist. But he's there. I find it shocking to hear that this is promoting illicit drug abuse. It's pure pie. These laws, this change, are efforts to damage and care; better health care, which is common to all of us, not only health care but also financial. Although we face a problem that many people want, they still face. Certainly, this legal environment is given for a while, in part, we are in a gray area. However, the police and health authorities have firmly joined forces and have resolved to make a success of one team. A respectable president. I don't think it's easy for me to view things like, " Eat what's out of nowhere." You have yourself to blame.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u67	Mr. President. Today we agreed here at the General Council on consumption bill, which is not exactly a cause for celebration, but it is of great importance. This is important because, hopefully, this is where we are setting up a plan for a very sensitive group. We're adding services to a group that's had a house to live. It's very important. This is one small step toward what has been called the result of drug abuse. I think it's important. Now we'll see how this plan turns out in Icelandic society. That's why I'm especially happy to be the highest. In his earlier speech, a health minister would declare that governments are expected to continue funding this system. This is important, for we must not overlook the existence of this group in the community, and we too are responsible for it as do other members of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u68	A respectable president. It is true that it has been called after that Frú Ragnheiður defends the individuals who need shelter, and I have taken it. However, opening up such measures for all new addicts is a highly conservative arrangement. No one's talking about eating what's out in that relationship. That has been said many times. I'm also surprised that a minister comes out of my mind when she answers these questions, and I just didn't expect to. I asked about the cost assessment of the effects of these bills if they were to be legal, but not of what cost to each one of them. I'm a little bit thinking about that. HCPs should not worry about this about these bills and the Senate decrees and what is on the weight of the vehicle will interfere with increased consumption. It is only that all increase in bioavailability will have its effect. No matter how much freedom they want to use in these materials, you can't beat your head to the stone about it. That's just the way it is. It doesn't matter whether you're selling drugs or yelling, the closer you get to the product and the easier it is to get there, the more you use it. That's why I'm asking a minister if she's not worried that she's already about it. I used the word "treatment home" to 1,000 people in the waiting lists - there was no need to get out of it. I'm talking about the companies and institutions caring for these patients. Is it not true that when we increase our bioavailability, we should also increase our prophylaxis and help?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u69	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator and I ask him to be as accurate in inquiry as possible. Hv. A senator uses the word cost assessment, but when it comes to cost estimates, it usually refers to expenses directly due to the particular bill. That's the expense assessment you get used to. That's the cost assessment I mean in response to question. A senator when I talk about the 50 million people who have been set to meet the preparation of consumption space, most likely here in the capital area. As I said in my answer, I don't expect to, and not my experts, not public health experts, not the governor, not the rest of the bill members, to increase the pressure in the treatment home, not at Hl surgeryhouse, and not to the UB and others, because it's an additional resource. It is intended to reduce the damage caused by those who consume the substance and meet it at the location where it is, i.e. to keep people alive, to reduce damage and to improve the quality of their lives and of their community. It is not to be expected that the bill will lead to an increase in waiting lists after treatment. Hv. However, a senator cannot expect me to evaluate the potential social costs of noncommunicities, as well as the affairs of other ministers. I'm just asking. A senator must be more specific in his inquiries if he wishes to answer them because this will give us the best results for this team.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u70	Mr. President. Oil is still the main source of energy in transport and in some places in electricity production, which is usually a spare power, but it can also be the only force available as electrical power in places such as Grimney. Hopefully, that will eventually change with the land's energy exchange. The distribution of oil through the land is in few hands, two parties or so, and it happened in the winter when severe storms arose that there were a number of problems with oil use and oil supply. I'm not going to count it, it'd be too far, but there's a lesson you can learn from things that didn't work out well then. In some places, it went fine. Other natural hazards could prevent the transport of oil and make it necessary for us to take good care of oil supplies in the country, scattered across the country. It is then a question of whether it is any other way than through what we can call a marketing management, with the companies in the market caring for this and distributing the oil, whether it may even have to have some kind of supply in the management or property of the State at important locations, etc. This is what I've put in a costume that says in some way like this: Is oil distribution and other fuel distributions on land and sea meet the requirements for transport safety, storage according to needs and national security policy? What can we learn from the position of oil distribution and other fuel distributions in the storm in December 2019? The third question is security. Today, oil and oil spills can become contaminated. The responses, of course, to the EEA, to the oil companies themselves, to health committees in the region, etc., but I am more predicting the impact of pollution accidents on the environment. There is a need for follow-up, watch what happens if there is a major oil accident, and there is a question about how you react. Is it sufficiently well-finished or observed when such things have happened? It's a rather large question, I realize it, but I know it's the highest. The secretary of transportation and unit is a more elegant man.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. The leader of a great question. Sadly, the answers are fairly technical, but the questions may call out for them. There are questions about oil distributions and other fuel distributions on land and sea and the requirements for transport safety and storage and the need for national security. The need for transport and storage to the national security sector is food needed in the light of the storms. I say need to be, because it hasn't been done. National Security Council implements national security policy, and therefore it is under the custody of monitoring and evaluating policy issues. However, in order to ensure the safe transport of hazardous cargo transport, the Office, the Work and Road Control of the Police Department are responsible. These organisations work under the regulations to ensure that the export of hazardous cargo is safely performed and in the Regulation that vehicles carrying a dangerous cargo should be specifically marked to make sure that there is a dangerous cargo. A particular safety guard is also included in the vehicle, fire extinguisher, safety equipment for driver and assistant and alarm signals. Then there is detailed regulations on the responsibilities and duties of the sender and the transferer of a dangerous cargo, which says the product information. In accordance with the 2018 Presidential decision, the switch of the administrations, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs for Transportation, Transport Safety and Transport and Transportation, and the Office's Environment of Social Affairs and Police at the Ministry of Justice. The role of a walking agency is to recognize and record the vehicles used for transport of hazardous cargo, hold courses for those authorized to transport such materials, recognize safety advisers related to these organisations, and provide security advisers to ensure that rules and advises are implemented, provide reports, as well as other factors. The work programme will monitor the implementation of regulations for the classification of materials, the recognition of packaging, testing and recognition detailed in Directive 68/2008. Police traffic surveillance clearly oversees road surveillance with vehicles carrying hazardous cargo in line with police specific road control regulations. Police also set rules on the limitations of transporting hazardous tunnels through tunnels. If vehicle or vehicle equipment is not in accordance with local regulations, it is permitted to stop the vehicle or send the vehicle to the designated site where it is corrected before driving. We live in Iceland in general in stability and security, but it is urgent that governments exercise caution so that safety in transport of hazardous cargo is assured. A national regulation on the security of such transport is fully in line with the European rules and, in this case, guaranteed as far as possible, as long as we do all the monitoring that they're telling us. What can we learn from the distribution status of the storm in December? Then it must be said, as it is, that none of our procedures or regulations tell us that information should be compiled, either by volume, by number, or by anything, so we don't have enough information. This may be one of the lessons we should learn from. In terms of learning and reacting, the workers and contractors of Vega have prepared a precautionary measure due to wind for large vehicles. However, it might be noted that there is no basis for further identification of the criteria to drivers, even if there is reason to update them, taking special note of dangerous cargo. The collection of data on import, storage and sale of fossil fuels is available in the fields of the employment and innovation of the Ministry and the Energy Institute, including the issues on the import, storage and sale of fossil fuels and monitoring, and cannot be discussed here. This does not change, however, because it is important to learn from the situation in winter's storms. I believe that all of us can learn from how to prevent such a fear - inspiring situation that was created when a storm raged like that, in many places without electricity, in some places without heat, the communication system fell out, and even men could not get near oil. Home-field operations management can make a difference, and the expected public protection measures, i.e. The rules that men place in the district take into account some of these factors that we could learn from and apply. The impact of air pollution accidents on the environment, in the case of transport accidents, is a matter of environmental protection on the management of the Environment and Resource Ministry under Article 9. Pre-sections, as I know it. A senator knows. Therefore, the Department of Transport and Division does not have information on the effects of pollution accidents in this country. Happily, they are few times, and again they refer to the security system that we have and to a rule. Of course, it is always possible to do better, and it is also interesting to hear how such accidents have worked, how they have affected the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u72	A respectable president. Earlier this month, the transport minister recommended a prime measure on the transport transport of oil products and the decoupling of transport balance funds. Like regional transport, the management was taken to the quality of the building organization. The legislation is developing since 2011 and intended to match national standards. The minister claimed that this would be less than simply reducing the equation factor, it was important. Instead of the special price of oil products, a direct contribution from the state's funds is now to the regional transport equation, which will be in accordance with the bill 175 billion. K. which is financed by a special price on oil products. The amount of money that goes into this equation in 2020, however, is 375 million. Is it not obvious, most distinguished president, that there will be a massive cutoff to transport and further burdensome to the country? The minister said: "No, the old system was costly and out - of - date, and the new system is to be returned as well. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Am I missing something or wanting to be the greatest? Ministers would be so kind as to lead me to the light? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u73	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the answers. All these discussions over the head are excellent. Just a few things. I think that national security advice or work on it is the right setting to make a mistake on what I call a supply in the country. I'm not talking about daily or weekly or monthly use of this source of energy. I'm talking about the supplies, supplies that need to be, a summary of them, location, quantity, and so on. It needs to be a complete organization, so if something happens as it happened in the winter, it can be handled properly. Finally, regarding the follow-up of oil spills. There are procedures of various ways to cope with pollution accidents. This is usually the first reaction. But what is equally important in real life to prevent as much damage as possible from such pollution accidents is that follow-up or monitoring is also organized in some way; for samples to be taken, monitored, let's say groundwater, rivers, or other such things, a vegetation or anything. It's a mission to do what I think the events of winter taught us. As I mentioned, it doesn't take much vision to see that avalanches, landslides, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, or other such factors test supply because of electricity production, heat, and other such factors in houses and so forth. So here's a job to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u74	A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, I agree with the number of cases in very many places. A senator's concern is that it is important to analyze the matter. I agree, too, that national security advice must be given on the basis of how much land is available and spread throughout the country, with the security involved. I believe, however, that the P.R. in this region needs to cover more than the resources that humans have and access to form fuel. The lack of electricity revealed that humans did not have the opportunity to get fuel, although there was enough because they simply did not have hand pumps. There are these things I think the locals need to go over. Regarding pollution accidents and their consequences, I think it would be very interesting to consider. Of course, we are familiar with some situations in which nature has experienced an amazing shock, the winds of Kolgraffjord, where people thought that all of it would be dead for centuries and even blamed for its transport efforts. It turned out that there were a few years of herring that had got mixed up in her head and always went to the same place that got killed there, unfortunately. But the fact is, soon after that, nature seemed to have an adventurous ability to recycle the situation. The same thing was true of digoxin pollution in Enggidal, where men closed the burning station and thought this valley was ruined for centuries, but it was not just one year, that I think, after the incineration station was shut down. So nature is incredibly capable and I think it would be interesting to read it. Well, that's a good input. S. Brjánsson, I think he misunderstood something, but I'll take up a discussion about transporting at any time. He did not misunderstand that ideologies are believed to be enough for transport to ensure the same effect today, because the market simply does the other equations. That's the answer. But we can take a better discussion of it on a better occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u75	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Transport and Regional Minister for participating and responding to my inquiry below. It cannot be overlooked that there is an enormous difficulty in building and maintaining electricity and road structure in the country. We have been able to create a particularly protective environment in which individual rural communities, stakeholders, and individuals can allow themselves to tread on the interests of the community of the entire community for their objective support of the need to build and maintain our foundation, to the benefit of its citizens. We're talking years and decades on projects. The road and the Landsnet have the legal task of working on the development and restoration of the road system and the transport system of electricity in the most practical way as the public interests and needs of society require. But internal structure can be both costly and risky. The risk is taken by the owner of the infrastructure, which is in the vast majority of cases the state or community. I'd like to ask the Minister three questions. 1st What wood does a minister consider to be essential for public interest? Does a minister think it's wise to define them specifically in the law? This is where I mean roads, airports, and transportation systems. 2. What is the understanding of the minister of 3b? Twenty-eight. A law on authority to require ruralisation because of highway repairs? Is a minister willing to apply that law? 3. Does a minister think that a law on environmental impacts will need to be revised so that parts of the transport system that are now subject to the decision of rural government will be transferred to a higher administrative level, allowing responsibility to move on to the State, which in turn leads to the history of the State? A respectable president. I call out that we simplify the permit system, and those who deliberately delay their implementation can no longer do so with an out - of - date system. I look forward to hearing the minister's answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator with interesting questions. With regard to the definition of infrastructure, all infrastructures are important to our assessment of transport and rural administration, the nature of a matter as measured by the terms of public interest. They are all defined by laws, communications, roads, rejections, and air travel laws. It is not determined exactly where these structures should be or lies but how they must be in order to meet each class's requirements. Details are then consistent with regulations. For example, roads can be removed from a road file, airports can be laid, etc. It is proper to make a decision, but it is on the custody of a community that makes decisions about their actions and actions. The infrastructure, which is considered most important in the transport sector, is specifically defined as the basis for transport in a transport program, so it may be to add some weight to it. Whether it is reasonable for a minister to require community support for highway repairs if there is a conflict, it is asked whether a minister is willing to apply that law. It should be noted, then, that roads are designed in harmony with rural society, as chapter 28. Roads and organizational procedures. The chosen location should be agreed with the Vega type and it is important that you agree with it. The road, in turn, provides suggestions for highways from technical assessments for traffic safety and efficiency. Code 3 mgr. Twenty-eight. Though not used by the senator in his question, the roadtype has left its right to use the law in some cases. It is best to apply it when planning leads to failure to comply with the roadtype's advice on how to travel or legal matters not to be respected. This results in less traffic security and more cost of construction. The directive allows rural society to choose an alternative to the roadmaking process, but it allows them to pay for the resulting cost. My opinion is that there is no reason to take this choice by rural society or to let the cost of land land in the state. So I believe that this law should be there, so you should use it if the situation arises. As regards the need to review legislation on environmental impact assessments and to bring the decision of the rural authorities to a higher administrative level, I would like to say that the full provision of environmental assessment laws allow planning laws on the road to travel, type rejection, etc. Decisions to allow implementation are then made on the basis of that legislation. A decision to make such decisions to the State would also be a decision to make decision - making authority from rural society. It is a big decision that would not be made without discussion. But I'd like to mention that we have something called a national planning policy and, in the case that we talk about the infrastructure, circled, or any of the main lines of the electronic energy system or something that concerns all of us, is my opinion that it should have a greater place in national policy. They certainly need to have that conversation with our communities, but I believe that we should look to the northern countries, which we often compare with. There, national planning is much more important. It tells us more about how our rural communities are to establish their main structure. I'd also like to point out that we certainly have an overall review of environmental impact assessments. I'd also like to mention that in the course of winter storms, an active group was established and in a very short period of time, that group found a more simple way out, where conflict arises to form lines. It had a plan where rural communities could agree on something in a regional organization. It has been tried that they go back to their home and change the main structure not necessarily in line with the regional structure, but they had established some kind of consultation field to make sure that they did so. A compromise really helps. I believe that national planning has to be taken away from all doubt about the main lines in road systems, electrical systems, and ways that affect the public throughout the country, not just individuals in a single community society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u77	A respectable president. I want to thank the Minister for his clear answers. It was just the top trip. A secretary of the north when all the lines were down there, and an interview with him on television sparked this inquiry. It showed that the system may have to be simplified. This is how today I see an article in the morning newspaper that discusses these matters. V.E.G. A minister speaks of these things defending the general public and that we realize that and the community, especially. But the lawsuits offered in Iceland to prevent and delay projects are natural. Because it's the highest. Ministers have spoken of the northern countries and the neighboring countries as the sky and sea between them and what Icelanders, rural areas and individuals have many ways to sue such projects. My article shows that such projects can be charged up for seven times and prevent them from being accomplished. But elsewhere in the North countries, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and then Scotland, which are closest to us, may be able to charge such a project on one level. There is something that we need to consider. I'd like to mention it here, because I've got a few seconds, that's being completed designing a Smokey Way and moving it to a short chapter, a five-mile chapter on a 50-mile long track. Environmental evaluations and expensive environmental programmes have to be restored, although it is quite clear that environmental assessment is not able to change much about a five-mile road rat missing in a 50-mile course. But thank you so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u78	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying about national planning policy and local societies that this discussion needs to take place. It's been happening, society's been very busy with it. I myself became a member of a rural government at the time, and I was deeply involved in maintaining the decision force of a community organization. I was afraid of land planning, but it would help us between 2005 and 2006, and 2007, not to build indefinitely of apartments all over the place, which, in turn, resulted in tremendous overexploitation. It must just be acknowledged that it needs a coordinated strategy, and none other than the state can have it in a national policy. Of course, much contact is needed. There we can make sure that economics do not go very bad. We have outstanding examples of projects that have taken place and that even for decades have been out of similar disputes, even though everyone says that this is the most reasonable way out of public interest. I think we need to talk more about this and think that national planning has to be richer. For public access it is very important that the public has a chance to implement. It is important that employers introduce them at the beginning. We have the same rule as any country in the North. It's more and less a joint rule, and that's why it's really remarkable if we have something completely different and end up a different way. That must be the basis for this overall review of it. I'd like to agree with what the senator came in at the end. For instance, the late interpretation of the Agency's interpretation, the improvement of roads, and their recovery calls for environmental assessment, a very narrow interpretation of lyrics, and it does not appear to be consistent with the interpretations we have seen elsewhere. This is one of the factors that I think people really need to review on the environmental impact assessments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u79	A respectable president. I want to direct questions to the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers. This is why the early army intends to stop driving on Thors Harbor at Langanesi, in Red Coast, and in Kopasker. I wondered if a car repair shop, e.g. Visit automobiles to specific requirements fulfilled and if we even need to define the services of these enterprises more accurately than we do now. One aspect of the work that none of us enjoy is taking a car to check out. I don't think there's any fighting for that assignment. After we've taken care of the government's private research, several companies have taken care of that surveillance, and the service may not be as good as we could have it. During the past few years, we have learned that this service is gradually getting worse, especially in the scattered areas. News that this service was to be shut down on Thord, the Corpeckers, and the armed forces did not appear so long ago. This means that the inhabitants of these communities are forced to travel very long, hundreds of miles. It's a hundred miles from Thors Harbor to Húsavík, where the next checkpoint is then. Of course, it is not acceptable that car owners in this area, we are talking about employment and household cars and other things, are being made to travel so much with the related loss of income and work to perform legal surveillance because it is not something we have the option to do. We also know that many of these places are already badly assigned in various types of service. This is shown in a service card done by a Based Agency and I know that a minister knows very well. If you go to a health care provider, you may need to go a long distance. I hope a minister agrees with me that we need to try to minimize this trend. I wondered, as to this matter, if a car repair shop can either take care of these specific conditions or that we simply set aside a minimum distance to the next location. Can this be explained in a Regulation regarding this service that observers would need to meet?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u80	A respectable president. Regarding the question of whether a car repair shop can perform a car inspection, the answer is: Yes. However, those who accept the views of motor vehicles must meet the requirements of a validated laboratory, including the principles of neutrality. I'm going through those requirements later, but it can be difficult and sometimes impossible for an ordinary automobile shop to meet. For example, a factory might not have access to vehicles while working. The purpose of the strict conditions met by laboratorys is, in short, to ensure the best safety of driving cars. Opinions have rented a vehicle repair facility in many places where it does not have its own facilities and while the laboratory's operating area is shut to the work of the shop. For the activities of the laboratory, the regulations apply to driving equipment examination, No. 8/2009, with a Grouping Office, it is the responsibility to accept observation offices according to Article 23. The Regulation and grant them permission to work. Prior to approval of the Home Office, the living room should have received a professional basis in accordance with the regulation on the activities of a competent, independent laboratory. The rules that apply to laboratorys include: Find a requirement for neutrality. Thus, according to Article 22. not only the repairs of vehicles but also their opinions. A laboratory must not sell parts of a car along with their examination. The Regulation requires a number of cost-effective measures, e.g. a device to test the brakes and pollutant pollution. In par. 24th. The Regulation is made up of educational qualifications for executives and other employees in the observatories. In addition, they are required to have a regular job at the observatory. The laboratory should be obliged to participate in controlled examinations when the Grouping Office wishes to do so, and the testing room should carry all the costs for this entry. If requested, a laboratory must participate in projects carried out by the police, the Road Building, and the Association. There are also regulations to ensure harmonization in the decision-making between a laboratory. It should be noted that a observatory should be linked to the company's computer system and that it should provide information on the results of opinions, that collect and deliver traffic security fees, neglect fees, and make sure that the car fees and laws of the company are fully paid. So the answer is yes, but there are requirements that must be met. Another question was if a minister thought that a more precise definition of the service of such companies would be required. Homes in the country already have opinions and facilities in many parts of the country, as well as access to automobile shops in several places, so there is a possibility. At that time, there are two laboratorys that have fine observation rooms. Certainly, if there was to be an extra legal field of service to be observed above today's service, an increased cost to consumers is involved. In addition, care must be taken not to discriminate aspects of the work of political organisations with differing emphasis on supply and service. New responsibilities, then, would have to be clearly and clearly in place in order to reduce their cost. The wise course may be not to give a single advance solution and to consider the whole matter. So I believe that it is possible and reasonable to expect the market to handle and solve this project. On the other hand, if such pressures do not prove to be true, there is a choice. In view of what happened. The candidate described in his talk, that the ministry would return, and that would be a tendency to close more and more viewpoint clinics with the required longer driving yields, of course, to consider some of these options, or to think of other ways to achieve changes in the behaviour of the market companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u81	A respectable president. I'm going to get involved in the discussion of car exams and service inspections primarily in order to stress that it is completely unacceptable if a car cannot be viewed between Húsavík and weapons. It is simply unacceptable for all the activities involved, whether by job or by household. These may be vehicles that will never have to leave the most used urban core, which can be Thorsve, Kopasker, or Redfarves. This is a matter where the solution will be resolved. The mobile exchanges may be able to carry out the ministry, but they need to be assured of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, however, draws attention to this serious matter that has come up on the northeast corner. I know it's the highest. A minister continues to maintain a wide variety of employment conditions throughout the country and to be safe when it comes to traffic matters. We have an important safety factor to keep track of our vehicles, but it is totally unacceptable that much of the country and the northeast corner do not have access to the observation and control of vehicles and that people have to drive long distances. I would like to challenge a minister to take a good look at this case because we need to figure it out. It is impossible to drive through many mountain roads to get an inspection of vehicles that would otherwise never have to leave the area where they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u83	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and members of the council here. I express my joy that it is my will to intervene in this matter. I know the Minister received a letter from the Parliamentary Commission, dated March 5th. This too was given to members of the North Eastern Precinct. As was said there, there must be a guarantee that this service will be rendered. It's not normal to drive 200 miles to get your car checked. Whatever avenues we find to solve, whether they are capable observation clinics or other, it is clear that the market does not seem to be able to solve this problem, not if we look at the map and that contracts have been canceled and that these offices are closed. Then the question, as the Minister put it, is to force some terms. As we look at the map in this area, we know exactly what it looks like. It's a very delicate area, this whole part of the country from Redfaring to the north of Thors Harbor, and it's not adding that this service also disappears. I really hope that a minister would say in his second answer to me and us here that this will not become a real situation, that legal supervision needs to be carried out in the way that the inhabitants of these areas are facing right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u84	A respectable president. I thank you again for this inquiry because we could actually be discussing almost any service in the country. This is the tendency that we have seen, that people are increasingly concerned with the most scattered areas because it is not profitable enough. As a result, we are often in many of the systems that we have to set up a competitive environment and then set up support systems on the part of the State to ensure that minimal services are performed. As a result, it would be entirely possible in this area, although I restate that I believe the companies involved in this operation should do so. Of course, there are various ways to force it. Of course, some type of geographic assignment might be considered, for it would have to be an opportunity to care for everyone in each area. I'd like to agree too with what. The members of the Council of Egilsdóttir and the Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir that it is completely unscrupulous to take a vehicle, which may never go out at all, and drive hundreds of miles just to check. But I also believe that we should examine the impressive observation centres. They might solve this. You might also check to see if you can negotiate with the car shops. But I am quite aware that the demands we make regarding neutrality, since there are not many automobile shops and can't do both the ministry and the maintenance, as well as the independent view, would make it possible for these to be difficult to do so. But I believe with this discussion we've called attention to this, and we at the Ministry will clearly consider if there's anything we can do to ensure minimum services.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u85	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for being here to answer tonight. In Iceland, however, they may now have ten tunnels, according to the road type information, and some 60 miles [60 km] of our highway system. They come from time to time. The oldest tunnel is thought to be the Eaglenes tunnel in the Elder River, between Susavík and Isafjörður, the most beloved of whom I have. It's always nice to come to the tunnel and see the light on the other side at the same time. They are 30 m long and in use in 1948. The roads were no more undisputed monuments than other human works, but they cost 750,000 dollars at that time. As in other Western lands, some people decided whether to fix the roads that were difficult to deal with. I'd like to use this opportunity to mention that before the council, there is a suggestion to prepare a new tunnel to ensure safe transportation between places, since the way through the spray bay is extremely dangerous and often shut down by snow and stone. Inflation has taken place in the west, but much remains to be done there. That, though, helps. All citizens and governments are increasingly concerned with the demand for comfort in driving, shortening their movements, and at the same time maintaining safety. In January 2019, the latest tunnel is built into a Vádle Passway, and in the fall, potential animal tunnels will be taken into use. And, of course, we want more tunnels under the Western Alps. During our journeys through the country, we become road users of the earth's natural environments, both markings, descriptions, and instruments of security, e.g. Fire extinguishers and emergency phones, though they all seem to be there, especially in the new tunnel. What is surprising is that telephone contact, Internet contact, tunnels in Iceland, or radio transmissions are being caught. It must be part of the traffic security system. I'm sure it's all right in the press, and on the other hand, it's all right with what's in there. I'm going to mention Hölfground tunnel. However, it is equally important that these factors exist in the less traffic tunnel, and it may be a long time for assistance to arrive if necessary. There's a shortage of this in the west, and east to some extent. In Bolungarvík, next to a phone, not a radio. It is 5,200 mL long tunnels, and so does the longest continuous tunnel in Iceland under the British Valley Shrimp and Botnshek, a total of less than 10,000 m. I'm asking the highest. The minister of four questions: How is the most important aspects of the safety involved in this land defined? Are the safety, security, and traffic services in a tunnel uniform? How does the situation regarding safety in each of the land's funerals affect the environment? And fourth, if there is any misdemeanor involved in important safety factors, will he arrange for improvement?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. However, the most important aspects of safety are a few defined. First, the design of the roadline and cross-cutter, e.g. if there's a sharp turns, if they're single. Second of all, what kind of traffic is through the tunnel. For example, it is permitted to transfer the dangerous materials we discussed earlier today to see if they are designed for walking and riding people. Third, a description of a tunnel and ventilation as well as a mark. In this regard, it might be noted that in the case of a lake that guides to escape routes, there may be danger. Fourth, there is communication in a tunnel. For example, if GSM phones work there, whether there's a Tetra connection, whether there's speakers there, the presence of radio transmissions, etc. A fifth example might be whether there is any planning to prepare, to make room for the tunnel, or to put out a fire there. Sixth, monitoring from watchpoint is very important. With a watchpoint, you can watch for a tunnel situation such as pollution and otherwise use of equipment. Regarding the compatibility of these issues, there is a harmonization of tunnels in Iceland. Checks if he's OK, including ... tothewatch station of the Roadmaker in a uniform soil monitoring system. Alman Passes are not yet connected to watch systems. There's a tunnel that's not in the same surveillance system as any other tunnel. They're being followed in another comparable surveillance system. Watchpoints include monitoring. with contamination in a tunnel and may regulate ventilation and close the tunnel if necessary. Watchpoints also play an important role in informing fire departments and police about the situation in accidents. In view of the security situation in each land, I refer to the information we have received from the Roadmaker. There's tunnels in the European road system meeting security rules. A tunnel under the British Valley and Botnshekis is 24 years old. They are one of the longest tunnels in the country, 9.1 miles, and equipment in them has been greatly improved. It's not important to improve it any more. Bolungarvour tunnels were opened in 2010 and are said to be well. There is no need for equipment in the Eagle Valley Hammer, the oldest tunnel in the country. Boys' tunnels were opened in 1967, they were improved in 1991; equipment has been improved in recent years. It is estimated that reforms will be completed this summer. The ground tunnel was opened in 2010 and is well understood, as the information tells us. It's a 1990 mule. It's a single-burning tunnel. The tunnel's clothing has been improved largely; it now meets security requirements. Traffic has become quite extensive, and traffic speed is on its way. The response should be considered if traffic continues to increase. In December 2018, Motive Passages were opened. They are on the European road system and meet its requirements. Yet, the number of emergency phones is only 250 minutes, but they have a strict schedule of 150. In various areas, however, the equipment of the tunnel is out of the question. Northground tunnels were opened in 2017 and are new and considered well. Precipitating tunnels were opened in 1995 and are in the European road system. They have been improved to meet the requirements for security. That's what they do in one way, they need a space light near a highway. Willing to put a crosslight, as it are, in the northern part of a tunnel. The Australian tunnel, which was opened in 1995, is in the European road system. They haven't been improved anything called, but next year the number of telephones is scheduled to increase and connect the tunnel to watch the tunnel. All right, we're running out of protocols. Then it is asked if a minister intends to proceed in an orderly manner if necessary, but generally there is a consistent harmony of important safety factors in Iceland's tunnel. However, it is important to remember that the tunnel is very different. Factors are like width, length, age, clearly, and traffic. Hence, demand for them is normally different. In time, the requirements for the design of soil change. This also applies to the safety requirements. It may be very difficult to meet all new and updated requirements in many older halls designed by structural standards. The aim is always to ensure that there is safety in a tunnel in Iceland as good as possible and that its security factors meet both standards and local circumstances. I'm just referring to the list of tunnels and what has been done there during the last eight years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u87	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion of the security and traffic services in a tunnel. I find it very important to hear that there are regular improvements in this process. I still have the feeling that burns, reflexes, and coordination with the local people are somewhat different in areas. I mean, that's what I know about, on the one side of the East and on the other in the north. It does not appear, e.g. as much as I would like to encourage the agreement between firefighters and Vega when it comes to a tunnel. Besides, I think it is very important to mention that in the east we can also take more tunnels in the Eastern Alps.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u88	A respectable president. It's a short time you have here. It's like going through Eaglenesham. I got it. I got it. paritaprevir Brjánsson to come to Bolungarvík, for then he can listen to the radio there. For telephone contacts, the telephone line in the West Coast is just for Siman's servants, not e.g. Vodafone. You may need to synchronize. But it really is important that the cooperation between Vega and rural society is guided by safety concerns, e.g. Fireproofs. Each member of the community is responsible for its firefighters, and this cooperation has to be coordinated around the country. I completely agree with that. However, a security plan for each tunnel is important and should be consistent. But, of course, this is difficult because the tunnel around the country is not old, as we have seen, and its security factors vary. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that in the latest tunnel, there are emergency areas that are very important to people who face difficult situations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u89	V.E.G. President. I declare my joy with the rosary and see that transportation is women's business. That's the basis for all this, to connect the communities. Thank you for bringing this matter up, okay? Senator. But I was also shocked when a minister listed all the tunnels that have come, but it only sharpens our thinking that we want more, we want more tunnels. We need more tunnels, and along the east and north, we can take more tunnels like those of the West. Whose corridors are we increasing our security? The more we get, the more a tunnel, the more secure the road, the more secure the way we walk, and the safety guide. I want to thank you for this fine discussion and continue encouraging us in building more tunnels.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u90	Mr. President. I want to participate in the walk talk because a tunnel is of utmost importance in the territory. Often, it is women who hire the family's home and are relevant to a tunnel. It's important to have good transportation. I know that from the West. All I want to do is talk about security in a tunnel like a West Coast tunnel, which is 9 miles long. There are seven miles of a single tunnel that is extremely dangerous. I have personally experienced this in a car accident, and I don't want to see any more of these. After the animal tunnel has arrived and the ringway opens, this single section in the West Coast, after becoming a major accident trap. I'm the highest. A minister to look to it in his work, and needs to get it into a transport programme in terms of the only - burning tunnel that remains in the country, as in the west, the MRI tunnel, etc., that there must be solutions to driving in both directions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u91	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for answers and what. Parliaments for taking part in the global and fertile discussion. Many of the ingredients are listed, and they may feel that there are weak links to security factors in the tunnel and need to be sharpened. As I mentioned earlier, it is equally important that these items be in good condition in those less traffic corridors, but there is a lot of traffic around all the ten tunnels we'll discuss here. In the memory of the tunnel, there are 7,700,1,000 traffic a day, and more are being taken up in Hölfjordur tunnels and Vádle-Hall tunnels; 7,000, 8,000, or 9,000 cars pass through Halfland tunnels each day, perhaps 5,000 through a Vállah tunnel. But people can become involved in a tunnel, and it is important to be able to reach people with radio signals. I'm asking a minister: Is it working to coordinate it in a way that allows radios to be reached in every corridor in Iceland so that it will have curts and pi? The highest. A minister gives an answer to the cost? How much would it cost to make these improvements? And at the very end of the blue, on red light, can a minister be careful when we start talking about a double-burn tunnel? How much traffic do we need? What's the safety margin? What do neighboring nations say about what they aim to do in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u92	A respectable president. Thank you for this fine discussion of tunnels and security there. I just want to reiterate in my last words that as the list shows, it's the human opinion that things are pretty good and that things are being over and over again. I don't know the answer to a question why. A senator, about what amount of money would be needed for everything to be tiptop, may end up with an unfair demand when we know that the tunnel is built at very different times, and demands may vary at any given time. We, however, place some minimal requirements that will always be valid and are uniform, and that is what humans have been working on, uplifting these tunnels to achieve it. Of course, some walk will not be possible to meet the maximum requirements we normally set for the latest gangs. I mentioned in my answer that several tunnels met so - called co - European requirements. Let me explain. The European rules on tunnels apply to the so-called TEN-T Road, which is mainly the Ring Road on the land. The newest tunnel, the Northground tunnel, meets joint European requirements, but not to form the Earth tunnel. The North Sea tunnel is not on TEN Road, nor is Hyung Strait tunnel. It is primarily the Ring Road, there are specific requirements for it. There are no trails left to form, as I mentioned, but they're also old enough to know that they don't have to meet their current demands, they're not backward. However, current requirements are used to guide minimal safety and acceptable safety. That's what the Roadmaker is working on, and the estimates are that way today. But there is always a better way to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u93	Mr. President. At the beginning of the year, 18 families, 60 families, who lived in a rented house at the Ak Aranei, received notice that the local real estate club, at home, lent to all the apartments in one pack. In the company's announcement, contracts were sold. Then it turned out that the new owners had no intention of renting them on the market. The complex was extremely critical, but the apartments were sold far under real estate values and far below market prices. The tenants'spokesmen say completely prerogatively that the home fields sold two blocks on these terms without inviting tenants to buy apartments with them discounts. They also say that it is completely immoral for such a society as Homefield, which purchased these apartments. Of the camp loan fund at its time in a special term, the dare to leave his clients in absolute uncertainty, many of which have rented at the home plains from the beginning. So much for the businessman that most of the rent contracts at home with the local tenants had arrived at a time and could then leave the buyer with shameless notice. It goes out at the door of all tenants as soon as possible, put the apartments in a commercial market, and get as much for them as possible. As Dr. Skaganum's local authorities point to them, the real estate society from Homefield purchased an apartment loan fund at its own time, with the premise of securing a powerful and secure lease in the countryside. In a few years, local fields have packed up and sold virtually all the special property they obtained from an apartment loan fund. So I ask the highest. A minister of three questions on this occasion, but note that this may be a parable worth considering in a larger context: Were they placed in a home that the local real estate company recently sold at Acdéri in order not to sell to the premises except by the approval of an apartment loan fund? If so, did the Substitute Fund grant permission, and why? How many examples do we have of similar real estate transactions between apartment loans and real estate partners?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u94	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. For me, three questions were addressed, first of all, whether on the property sold at Homefield and on the rest of the loan from the apartment loan was the charge, as the senator noted, that unless you agreed to a camp loan or a loan, it was forbidden to have been changed to the apartment. Such charges were placed in all the bonds of the apartment loans back then. So if you don't borrow from an apartment loan fund on the rented apartment, there are no bills left on the property. These panels are provided to ensure that loans are paid either for sale or by the buyer who meets credit criteria, if that is what he would like to buy for his property. Thus, the signals do not include restrictions on the rights of property owners in other ways than these. As the senator pointed out, an apartment loan fund provided a warrant for this trade. On the one hand, all greedy loans were paid up for the sale, and conditions were thus met. However, the fund agreed that along with sales of goods, there would be a huge loan from a buyer who was also a tenant partner. The criteria were thus met, and the camp loan fund did not have the opportunity to respond in other ways where conditions were met. Regarding the third question, how many cases are involved in a real estate trade, it is worth noting that this is not the real estate trade of an apartment loan and a real estate union. In this business, the camp loan fund has only indirect access to the trade as a lender. On January 1, 1999, the Substitution Fund began to operate as such until it became an ILS Fund on December 31, 2019, with a law approved by the General Assembly. At the time, the fund gave out a loan of more than 10,000 renters, but today there are an outstanding tenant mortgage of 7,000. The fund's loans are under the laws on housing so that people can live under security and equality in housing and to increase the possibility of having or renting houses at an affordable level. salaries are declared on all the property provided by rent-blans loans, requiring that owners exchange is prohibited unless the loan supply or approval of the fund for the takeover of the new owner is due. When a new owner is required, he meets the requirements to obtain a corresponding tenet loan. A number of exchanges, where loans have been provided for tenants, have been paid up to the owner's exchange or approval for owners trade, are not available for the funds. Well, you could say that, because of what you're asking. The senator, to say that the words of deposit were actually fulfilled because they went solely to see if the partner who accepted met the same criteria for reimbursement or other citations. However, the way we have kept those issues to mind can be considered. You can look back and wonder if it was reasonable to have sold all the assets owned by an apartment loan fund after the collapse. I believe it is wise for the government to keep out a public tenant tenant partner, not just through the general apartment system owned by a saber, owned by the labor force, etc., but that the government should keep a similar tenant partner. And that's why we've made some changes, forming such a tenure society called the Biret Society, to look especially to the country. It has several hundred assets and has the capacity to make further investments. It looks at what is outside the capital, just as the senator shows, that the larger tenants do not seem very interested in keeping an active lease outside the capital, and not even at Acdéri or in the annual city or in the Kragain in the city of Reykjavík. I'd like to say that, as soon as I answer this inquiry, I'll put a lot of hopes into this tenant. It is founded on a negative role model, both in Sweden and in Finland. The objective is that in the years to come, this partner can grow and, in time, become a powerful party to carry out an active tenet all around the country, not just here, in the most populous core of the capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u95	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A minister for clear and clear answers to the questions I asked him. As I mentioned, this sad story, a story about the Skaganans, is where the machines were used with the lot of people who have their feet fixed on a housing market. There, the market is playing an ugly game, or they're totally out there. I think it is sobering to think that governments in recent years have promoted the view that we need to create a potential for people who may not be able or who do not choose to make housing, that they can rent safe and secure housing. Government wills have been up to this. We're so imperfect in our society that there'll be some company that could possibly play some part of two badges, make us believe that they're unfortunate tenants, and make us stable. But it just isn't. They may even get government provisions to get started and then change the course, change the level in the middle. This is a thought - provoking point. Men have, for example. Getting even possessions and possessions for a purpose, they stop their planned activities, even selling and selling money from those things that were not intended at all. I'll ask the minister, how's the check? Do we have enough monitoring? Could we have more of those experiences, such as those we met in the Skaganum? Is it not a reason to strengthen the rest of the setting?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u96	A respectable president. I thank the senator. I think we share that view of the housing situation in general that it is not possible to leave them uninvited markets. It is my opinion that housing matters are just market issues. But housing is a real benefit because it is one of the basic needs that each family needs and one of the things that can distinguish people from the security and opportunities that we want them to have in New York. For what is discussed here, on Homefield and this case at Aranesp, I don't think that there was a lack of surveillance because it actually met the course of credit. There was no failure in surveillance that was critical. However, it may be wondered whether it is wise for the government to, whether it is the executive authority or the legislator, to delegate the role of private candidates to a social service, a house - to - house situation, as mentioned in this case. That's why I've thought that we need a special tenant society to care for the areas the market doesn't want. That is why Breet's hired partner was founded. It's nice to tell you that I know that Breet's officials, an independent government tenant tenure society, have been in contact with Ak Arane in the following cases and have had a declaration of some sort of will that Bríet will be involved in the construction of a rented house there. Be more molded. I can see we're gonna do more of this, and we're not supposed to be afraid of it. This is done by Finnar, even increasing the right management of Finland, which was operating during the last term, the share of this public society by direct investments. I don't think there's anything wrong with it because housing matters are welfare, not just about free market issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u97	Mr. President. Now, in the third round, we're going to discuss the concept of immunity today. As noted in the case of many members of the Parliament and several ministers, the concept is quite broad and is relevant to what sort of seminars a person will discuss in terms of how it is defined. It is important to keep track of and control of vulnerable groups in the community. To me, the key is that as a community, we make sure that all individuals can live a decent life and enjoy rights regardless of background and social status. One group in a particularly sensitive position is disabled people, often dependent on the specific services of the community and its people. In all of this, there is a key element that shows complete respect for people who are disabled and that they are allowed to enjoy the same rights as others in that regard. We do not have to look for past and present examples long ago, since it seemed even normal for disabled people to have the same rights as for health care, learning tools, housing, and independence to make decisions, so to speak. There they are groups of disabled people to the most sensitive position that some of them have to rely on others to represent them. Thus, in all relationships with people who are disabled, the discussion is important and is important to the level of human consciousness. In fact, prejudice against disabled people or lack of understanding of their rights is actually a violation of human immunity. It can also be noted that comparable prejudices toward older people, their abilities, their expectations, and their desires and needs are at least Disrespect for humanity, if not a violation of it. At the highest degree. Ministers are also children, and they have their immunity. It is made up of several divorces in the United Nations Children's Covenant, which is part of Icelandic rights. In these last days, when we have been fighting a pandemic, human rights and rights of disabled people have come back to life. As such, e.g. There are several places where a service has been cut down, and the disabled have been unable to recover. It is a question for us to take at these times: By allowing us to limit our service at such times, are we responding to these individuals as to their rights and their privacy? I refer to the questions at the Senate, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these inquirys and queries similar to other Ministers' URLs earlier today than tonight. The questions addressed to me were two. The first was whether a minister felt that the definition of the concept of immunity would be sufficient in the laws of the Ministry's topic field. As far as the Department of Social Affairs will be concerned, only the concept of privacy in the law on the services of disabled people with long - term needs can be mentioned, No. 38/2018. Their goal is to have disabled persons have the best service available at any given time to meet their specific needs. The service aims to provide the needed support for disabled persons to enjoy the full - time human rights as well as to provide them with the conditions for their own independence. In performing services performed to disabled persons, respect for their dignity, self - control, and independence should be given. IV. The section of the law discusses services performed with disabled children and their families. Says there, including to ensure that disabled children get the necessary services so that they can enjoy human rights and people's means of life just as much as other children, live independent lives, and participate in the community without separateness. However, the concept of privacy is not defined in exposés of the law, but it is referred to in a paper with a bill of law, that the provision of the concept for the right of disabled children and their families to the necessary services, which is the basis for them to enjoy human rights and potentials for other children. It is referred to as the United Nations Convention on Human Rights for the Rights of Distant Children, especially 7. .. and the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. It refers to human rights and freedom. The weekend of human life is also discussed in Article 5. European Convention on Human Rights, i.e. the right to freedom and immunity, in English called ◯right to sociality and security. The rights of the European Convention of Human Rights should be guaranteed to anyone staying within the domain of the Member States. Thus, the fact that there is specifically mention of human immunity in the laws of services performed to disabled persons with long - term support thus suggests that rights to all should be guaranteed. On the other hand, the concept has to be defined as the essence of human rights and must be understood as well defined, e.g. in the European Court of Human Rights. So, in effect, the definition of the term lies in my mind in some ways. Then it is a question of whether a minister believes that the concept of immunity could be expressed more clearly by law in the Ministry's topic field or in other ways. As mentioned earlier, an explanation of the concept is not stated in the laws of the Ministry, but the concept has been clear in the field of those dealing with and explaining the European Convention of Human Rights. Certainly, it would be possible to clarify the concept better within the legal context of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Hv. So a senator is thanked for this inquiry. It will lead us to review these matters and start work to see if there is any reason to clarify the concept more fully within the laws of the Ministry's topic, both the laws used by the term and the explanation are not presented, and the other laws of the Ministry's topic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u99	President. In this discussion, I would like to continue to point out that people are being careful and that they are especially used when we define this important concept because they have their own history. The concept comes in as a basis for human rights, for basic rights, for civil rights, for political rights, i.e. What it's all about. The society we're creating is based on man, the one who has rights. This doesn't come out of nowhere. This is because we went through a world war in Germany, with what was first, based on all other baseline values, is man's priority. An example of this - that is a federal court of law there - is that when laws were passed in Germany allowed to shoot down planes taken by terrorists, the Federal Court of Germany said: These laws violate the Constitution. They're in violation of human immunity. You must always put the person first. So we define this term into our inheritance. [[The president calls.]] We look to where it comes from. We see that in the European Convention on Human Rights, there are definitions of this and other laws. [[The president calls.]] Let's be very careful, and we'll take a look at this. [[The president calls.]] I just want to reiterate it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u100	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for Answers and Thanks for His statement that there is reason to consider the concept of the Ministry's topic. I also want to refer to a warning message. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, about the problem. We here have such fundamental values in all our existence and thinking that there must be caution. Then we come to see what the European Convention calls a weekend. This is where the safety approach is predominant, i.e. I'm sorry, Mr. President, that I use English, but that was an explanation. You see, it is a big deal that on the other hand, let us gradually come to the impression that this is a core value in our society and in our Western communities, but at the same time the definition is a bit floating in Icelandic rights. For example, in this regard it may be noted that in the public law there is no mention of human sanctimoniousness, such as. Talk about privacy. This is an important discussion, and I refer to it as the highest. Earlier today, the prime minister said that at work on the Constitution, especially when it comes to the next election period, this term will become one of the things you will look at and even try to define and achieve some solidarity as to what you want to define.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u101	A respectable president. Thank you for your discussion, and thank the senator again for taking up this matter. As I said before, this word is found in one of the laws under the Ministry. In that law, the term is not explained in their explanations. On the other hand, a person makes a point of what the term means and where it originally came from and entered the law. But I think it's a good urge for the senator to record this here, and not just to one Minister today but to more of us, because it's moving on the discussion that we formally work on the definition of the concept and see if there's any reason to include it in other laws or to take it more into our work, let's say, and in other languages. I thank the senator for the discussion that has been on this subject and look forward to cooperation with him and others and to the next steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u102	A respectable president. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization, FAO, has decided that the year 2020 should be a year of plant health. This is certainly not a coincidence. With this declaration, the Agency wants to bring to the attention of the inhabited earth the importance of the earth's vegetation to our very existence on earth. This is an important end for all farming, feeding, and food production to plant health. Iceland became an international plant protection agreement in 2005, but it also obligates Member States to become members of regional plant protection organizations. Surprisingly, Iceland has not yet applied to the EPPO organization on plant protection in Europe and the Mediterranean region. There's a variety of checklists, masquerade, and defined responses to disaster in nature and culture. The country needs most of its work. A food management agency has noted that there is a loss of surveillance and response to the people who have come to the country and are able to travel here in the future. Some emergency measures have been needed quickly so that a food agency can respond when viral infections develop in a local country. It happened, for example. followed by the discovery of two plant diseases in South Africa's tomatoes in 2017. At that time, additional antimicrobial measures were used to limit transport between cultures within the regulations. Here I refer to a regulation on measures to prevent spreading plant diseases. At that time, the Food Organization called attention to the fact that imported tomatoes can carry infections. Those who know that it was a difficult task to eliminate the viral infection in a greenhouse and have access to special knowledge are crucial if they are to succeed. The one being present is strongly concerned with increasing cooperation, professional safety and security in this field, and I rejoice that the Union of Garden Prayer is prepared to arrive at that work. Current Directive on import and export of plants and plant products, No. 189/1990, is as the number currently says, 30 years old. True, the rules have changed, but for a long time they have been waiting for a complete review of it. This has repeatedly pointed to the time of the last four ministers. The current minister appointed a task force, but it is not known that he has come together or is planning when his work will be completed. This may have changed. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: First, how will the Icelanders share in the United Nations awareness during a year of plant health? Second: What Is Review of Regulation No. 189/1990, the import and export of plants and plant products? Third, will the staff appointed by the minister to make a suggestion for a change in the Regulation and plan a minister to complete a general review on the grounds that this year is an international year of plant health? Fourth, how else does a minister intend to participate in the FAO awareness of plant health? And finally, are there plans for Iceland to apply for participation in the PO?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u103	A respectable president. I've had four questions of course directed to me. Senator. First of all, what questions were asked: What will be considered in a review of the regulations cited? The answer is that the Regulation's review is within the Ministry and that this is being done in close cooperation with the Food Organization. In addition, the review will be made with professionals and economics in the topic field and we will advise that the review of the Regulation will be completed in the current year. It is also asked whether a minister intends to appoint a formal task force to implement the proposal for a change in Regulation. A formal service team is not expected to be set up because of the change, but, as I mentioned earlier, the work will be done in close consultation with the Food Institute and the main professional in this field. Third, we were asked if we were going to complete the full reexamination this year for the year that FAO has dedicated to an international year of plant health. I reiterate what I said in response to the first question that we plan that this review will be completed this year. Finally, the question was asked: How else will a minister participate in the FAO awareness of plant health? So I think it's very important to work on further protection against plant disease. Is it even? The reason we are working on a review of the above regulations. There are additional tasks related to plant health such as protection of GDP and improved monitoring of the import of the plant. In this regard, I would like to mention that in connection with a food security action programme, changes in customs logs took place on January 1 of this year. These changes, in particular in plants and vegetables, were largely responsible for the increase in toll files of gardening products. This procedure made the registration and toll class much clearer as simple and helps improve monitoring of these materials. And I'd also like to mention that in March 2017, the employment and innovation department, Iceland's Farm Organization, Land Service, and the National Association of Sheep offered an agreement for ten years of food and monitoring of the land's vegetation and soil resources. That assignment is known as GroLind and financed through the sheep market agreements. The aim of the project is to set up a systematic monitoring of the state of plant and soil resources and collect the information necessary to ensure the sustainable use of these same resources. The aim of this project is to regularly assess the state of the EU's plant and soil resources and develop sustainable indicators for the use of plant and soil resources for Iceland. The project will provide important information that will be useful for agricultural policy policies as well as land management. The employment and innovation services, along with the Environment and Resource Ministry, are in cooperation with Iceland's Farming Association, Land healing and Forest Development, and at that level, have been responsible for the development of climate-based agriculture. The aim of the project is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture as well as to reduce land use and increase soil carbon binding and vegetation. This task includes education and comprehensive advice on agriculture and climate interaction and the implementation of individual production programmes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions I believe that with this project, there are very positive steps towards climate change and sustainable agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u104	V.E.G. President. I rejoice that this is a discussion of how important the earth's vegetation is to our existence on earth in a year of plant health. Farming, farming, and food production all depend on plant health. There we are Icelanders, in death, with our clean farms, our flesh, our clean water, our soil, and our land space. As the experience proves, it is difficult to remove viral infections from greenhouses and so it is important to be careful about importing them if they are to be. So I welcome the Minister's words that he is considering reviewing these matters and hoping this year to succeed in good cooperation with farmers and agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u105	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is true that plant countries can be protected and protected from many factors beyond this directive, as a minister showed in terms of customs laws and measures that are being considered at the Ministry of Agriculture and I know about. Is that good? This is of utmost importance because, as we know, there are conflicting factors. I want, for example. I know that it is forbidden to import tools or machines that have been in use in foreign soil, but then they may be introduced to Christmas trees or other plants that carry the same soil. This has to be harmonized into many factors, and there are a number of ways, as noted, and it's just nice that you're working on it. I want to thank you for the answers. I know the Minister will do this as he does, and the review will be complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u106	A respectable president. Yes, the Regulation is being revised, and our project at the Ministry is about to complete that review this year. I'd also like to mention for this reason that this morning I had the opportunity to go and examine a new species, what a man would say, a greenhouse in Iceland made that is almost entirely pure production of salads, flowers, and anything. This is actually a house in a house and a closed space and is practically clean production, using much less water, much less electricity, etc. This company is built up with great ambition in cooperation with foreign companies including technical knowledge of new ones here. As I mentioned earlier, this is one of its largest companies in Europe and a complete innovation in this field, and in fact, we've had a completely different reality than we've ever been in this kind of production to date. This company is Víta and has already brought its production to the market in this country, an enormous amount of products. They want big things, and I think they have a very high potential because their production is in every way very simple, clean, and a lot of good things. These areas are becoming big-time progress, and their pace is, in my opinion, simply after growth, and we may need to consider reviewing the regulations under consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u107	Mr. President. It has rarely been as clear as now the importance of our medical staff as a community. It's a front class. It is a class that literally risks their lives and, in fact, just caring for their jobs. It is a class that has the heart in the ministry. This is a class that needs us, to us who are here in this room. Medical staff now have a direct requirement to open 60 units of university degrees, a university degree that will be at a professional college level. This is so natural that I'm just gonna ask the highest order. Ministers of direct questions, whether this will be done immediately in the fall. I'm going to pressure the Minister to do so without hesitation. This would be in accordance with the collective agreement that was just reached this spring. This would be in accordance with government declarations of university growth as a result of the Covid epidemic. This would be in accordance with the lack of medical staff by special training in the health system and would be in line with the desire of a health care professional in the country. Mr. President. The head of Iceland's Hospital Society, Sandra B. Franks, recently noted in an article that this is a place of death for the government. I am a spokesman for taking advantage of all the opportunities we have to promote and improve the status of medical personnel in the country. Let's send in today, right now, a strong message to the orderly that we're on their side - they're on our side - and they're doing what they're asking us to do here today. That's the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u108	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for this helpful and interesting inquiry. In addition, I would like to thank medical staff especially for all their hard work since the Covid epidemic. Without them, it would never have worked so well. It is clear that the whole health system was involved in working on the miracle that I believe took place. There's nothing more to say about it than that. I wanted to start speaking about this and to say how important their work is. Over the last four years, professional education has been being prepared in cooperation with the Ministry, university and high school, and the workforce. As part of the government's efforts to face student growth in college in the next fall, the economic impact of a pandemic will be offered short - term ways of learning that reduce working skills in a labour market and meet the needs of jobs for educated staff in under-skilled professions as well as other professions. Special attention should be given to medical and technical education. In addition, we also place great emphasis on working, working and industry because there is a great demand for people with that knowledge. A respectable president. I would like to state that after finishing high school, professional university studies are organized to cooperate with various educational teams. The study is designed to pay students with a final exam other than a student's study course that can lead to a university degree. Furthermore, the study is designed to take into account the constantly changing needs of companies and commercial institutions for innovation and new knowledge. Preparation for professional university education includes the introduction of the study in the form of a planned change in law on university and government law. It will also be considered by reevaluating the university calculus to meet the increased emphasis on professional university education. The University of Akureyri has worked together with the stakeholders to provide advanced education for medical staff in a nursing course. These are specialized because of mental and aging. It is hoped that the study will be possible for those with medical staff for further study in the nursing program, but it is totally planned that by the fall of the year they will be offered professional colleges for the medical staff. This is one of the focus factors stressed by the medical staff in collective agreements, and it is a great will in my department, and at the University of Akureyri, so that medical personnel can start premeditation in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u109	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Ministers are eager to know the answers, and I especially want to welcome the statement that will be offered for this study for the medical staff, as I understand the words of the Supreme Court. Minister. What a cause for joy that is! For a considerable time, this has been a battle between medical personnel, especially after the school was canceled in its time. I think there's a breakthrough here that the orderlies will notice, and it's really satisfying and show in our work that we care about this class and we listen to it, no matter where we are in politics. This is one of the issues that each of us can certainly agree on the need to do well and to act in perfect harmony with the will of the class. The Minister's comments that the study will begin immediately this fall, I especially rejoice. I'm the highest. Similarly, if necessary, the minister will be able to secure funds, and I trust the minister will confirm this afterwards. In the large context, though, this may not be worth much compared to the benefits we receive from the study. It is important that we show that these words are not just empty but that we are behind those promises. We've got a pack of actions here, we're discussing funds and budgets, we're reevaluating financial programs, and it would be wishful and natural to see in the documents that we're here following according to the wishes of a health care provider and that we'll be handsome in this study. This is important, and I think pressure within and outside the council is important. I agree with the minister that we need to give this class a warm thought, and I want from this chair to offer my best thanks for the work the sick have done in the unprecedented condition that the nation has experienced. This is a key class that we cannot do without, and we certainly need to look more often to the interests of the sick.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-107.u110	A respectable president. It was shown in the matter of what. A senator says that the funds need to be accompanied. Yes, I can confirm that the government is planning to add money to the education system, including the U.S.A. due to the condition that remains after the virus. It's clear that there's an increasing application to education, at trade, to college, and I think it's an ideal opportunity for the people of the country, who are interested in improving their skills or skills, to use our powerful educational systems to do that. I just agree with what. A senator on the importance of increasing the skills and knowledge of medical personnel, and they have taken the initiative to begin the university professional and have made a great effort to do so, and this has taken place in good and strong policy with a health minister who is developing expertise in his profession. So it's the same thing with the education that I'm going to introduce in the Senate arrangement this fall, and I decided to postpone it because I wanted to introduce it and have better space for it on autumn days. But I can make you happy. A senator saying that we share the same emphasis on this matter.
