ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u1	Borist has received a letter from a foreign and development co-work minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic government to properly introduced EU types have the priority in Icelandic dishes, and on deck. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Issu, and on roof. 1418, about the cost of the Ministry to written answers to queries, from Bruntur the son of Níelsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u2	The president wants to suggest later this day's votes that will be published specifically and will first try a new vote system in an enlarged assembly area. As a result, a new assembly meeting will be held, so it can be seen that meetings can be held to this day to complete the discussion on all aspects of the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u3	The President now plans to look for a variation to the importance of the third part of the program, which was distributed after April 1 and is not yet completed as 3 mg. Thirty-seven. Parliamentary conditions, i.e. a so-called five-day rule is not fulfilled. In addition, two nights have passed since the administration of the bill, as per mg. Thirty-seven. Congress. This is a bill brought by a professional health committee. In view of circumstances, the president wishes for the variation to be granted without a vote, according to a warrant at 1 mg. 80. g. Congress, if you don't object. No one acts against us, and therefore, variations are approved and can put the matter in place at the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u4	President. To make a decision to give government responsibilities to companies is a position that I think no senator will take lightly, a position that no one really wants to be in. Still, we are in that situation, for the crowning epidemic has created the unprecedented situation. As the situation of flying and travel grew brighter during spring and early summer, and after it became clear how difficult Illeland's situation was, this claim became louder at the wind. Congress officials somehow hacked into and secured flights to the country. It would be for the people to be happy for themselves. We are now in a position to decide to give Illelands the State guarantee of a loan line. For such support, there are extreme conditions. That includes all of them. demand that headquarters be held in Iceland, thereby providing collective contracts by Icelandic law. It is explained in what the company can possibly spend on the money it provides, and it is decreed that it should not be paid for as long as the Kingdom guarantee is granted. The money is set for this situation as sure as possible. In fact, the terms are so strict that the company will avoid using the loan line in the longest law. She's in there, but she's not. You might even say, Mr. President, this is Schroedger's Schrödinger line. Those who have spoken of having to ensure transportation to the country, those who have the company's interests in mind, and who want to have jobs, those who want to minimize the risk of the state's funds, and who prefer to make sure that no funds are available there, must be happy to be able to accept the responsible state when it comes to votes in the coming days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u5	Mr. President. We are told that governments suffer from lack of direction and inadequacy, both for the epidemic and for the present, so let's look to Alfuss, a world of 2,300 people. It is now an example of a building policy and a long - range view rooted in governments. They're considering increasing water exports and its carbon balance, building 5,000 tons of salmon on land in two stages, heading for a massive climatic for export. There is increasing waxing, omega-3 fatty acids and protein in the energy resource range. There is a new facility of knowledge in the village, and this is an improved port for exporting to the village. This, Mr President, reflects government economic policy, as diverse as it is, innovation and new funds, new food policy, new ambitions for transport and energy policies and green emphasis. This reminds us of many opportunities to wait in the South, from the South to Hafnar, in the Hornfjord, and, hey. Senators, all of this also reminds us of reality. It does not involve too many in the opposition to government policylessness and impotence, for it promotes confusion and anger in difficult times. There we look at the face of the demerism, or people's covens, where politicians take up quarreling and lording. In other words, it's going to be in the right direction, so I'm going over the real world, and it's not just in Elfus, it's in many parts of the country, it's in the Big Reygian District as well. Thus, it is not the inability and inability of governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u6	A respectable president. We are in an unemployment crisis that manifests itself to the point of an equal blow. The demand disappeared from certain sectors, with dramatic consequences, while even those in the community feel little about the blow. There is reason to believe that this crisis will be rather short. They tell us that governments have and must act quickly. When we were confronted with the first action of the Koron virus epidemic, it had all the success of saying that the nation was standing together. I think it's a big difference between the three of them. They told the nation what the situation was and why they made difficult efforts. Sadly, this situation is about to disappear, and the government has a heavy responsibility because it has been blurred in answer and direction. It has at times revealed itself to the nation as a failure to act. It opened the country for summer without any apparent diagnosis on the effects, and the same thing happened again when the government closed the country. Thus, opposing sides of the country, converging between groups, and working groups have been formed when a common enemy is and should be this highly infectious virus. Of course, the situation is that there is no easy option, and I'm not going to say it, but it really is that governments are clear about how things work. The new government financial policy is not clear. If the government is betting that the shock is temporary, as the secretary of finance says, why delay the action? Why not react faster? The steps are too small and your beat is too slow. Everything that is encouraging now is good. It's not just the human situation, it's the responsible economic. It's to make it easier for people to make opportunities and make money, reduce the budget on employers, and encourage companies to hire people. [[The president calls.]] The responsibility for economic management in the event of a temporary situation is to have the courage to stand with people and businesses during the process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u7	Mr. President. It's funny to experience it, three years after the establishment of this government, that the prime minister will sue far at his party, and not only that, but those who are left with green ones will come up here and try to justify their own ill feelings in the administrative work. Okay, I actually understand that very well. But it's a little tricky that after three years, the problems are so remarkable, despite the fact that this government is a cohesionist, as we've talked about and pointed to conservatives. On the other hand, if I were left green, I would be much more concerned about the words of the minister of finance in an interview in a state - strength magazine - that magazine, the Morning newspaper, actually received the highest strength of nearly 100 million in a system that was placed on the government of the Independence Party. During the interview, a secretary of finance tells us about Reykjavíkurburg and entitles the city, but he does not mention a single word about the most important project that we have to do, is ready, and we have to speed it up because we need urgent action now to help the people who are in trouble and who become even more difficult when unemployment is increasing. There was not one word, but it does not worry left green. They are not concerned about the cooperation they are in within the government and how this may affect major projects. So I'm saying that I'm really worried that the government, the secretary of finance, and others, like left green in this government, do not sense the serious problems facing the Icelandic nation. True, much has been done, but unemployment is high and it will only increase in the next few months, and then we need action immediately, not something the government is preaching in financial policy after a year, two or three. We need to do this right away because we need to answer the urgent call of people across the country, especially of the Southnes, about their need for work. Therefore, I would like to encourage the government, people in the left green which is kept a measure of discomfort within the government, to go to the secretary of finance to press and go to the city line right away, not to wait on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u8	President. As more and more people of the country see loss of employment in the next few months, their concern and income have shown great lack of judgment, that they are not to meet that group or that they will not be able to win. A financial minister has directly called increasing the support of unemployed, having to be an integrated hunger force in the system, so that people will not be able to cope. Kristrún Frostadóttir, chief economist of Sweden's Bank, has noted that all major work market studies in the United States since the development of Covid-19 do not indicate negative improvements in the level of employment, even though the improvement beyond the minimum wage. On the contrary, the increase has resulted in increasing demand in the economy, anointed the wheels of economic life, and support of the economy that the government is so concerned about. The government has climbed from the first days of the pandemic to a temporary situation but still has the absolute lack of courage to see the opportunity in the short run to try something new on economic and work markets, something that is not based on credit and high economics. President. There is evidence that now the time to increase financial support for sensitive unions, to vulnerable groups such as unemployed, desperate, and old alike, is now time to reduce obstacles and to create flexibility for people to walk in these uncertain times. We must now eliminate conditions and impairment, for it is not merely courageous and humanitarian but a very reasonable investment for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u9	Mr. President. We are in the midst of an international crisis that covers the health and economy of the nations. In this situation, we've had to change gear, put in the low drive to continue Iceland slowly and bite with a drive on every wheel through the blinded. It does not matter how the steering wheel is handled, and it is important to listen to those who have experience on board. Sadly, the entire crew lacks much control over options. This is what we have in the United States severely critical of all this difficult period. In all of society's institutions, the importance of knowledge, innovation, and infrastructure is spoken of, and I truly agree, and at the same time worry that the restoration of vegetation and strong sectors will work at the same time. And that's what's gonna happen. All over the country, there are many examples of ideas and projects, green solutions, intelligent technology, and all kinds of technology. They need to be strengthened as never before, to give them vitamins, to inspire them, to make it easier for wands to rush out both within the country and on the international level, to get strength and support. Popular application procedures are a complex process and, in fact, a professional. Here the State must come in vigorously and directly share in the work, as is known in neighboring lands. There is a need for government control, great thinking, and political generosity. Many good jobs fail because of failure to achieve good applications. ▪ There are seeds that were given this judgment, that would fall into the ground, but never be flowered, told the poet good about the Great Forest. Understandably, only a small proportion of potential projects will be fully involved in major activities. It's the nature of innovation. Mr. President. New creation is a long - term race that brings benefits to a new society. Sowing is the first step. He who does not sow has no harvest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u10	A respectable president. Today's Parliament's work shows that there is much good in the government and the Senate. Here on the program are good issues that deal with the fear - inspiring situation in society and the world around us, of course. The State Department of the Parliament has been successful in the measures that have been made so far and is a general pleasure with them. I feel in the public that the actions make it a huge pleasure. There is also a general understanding of the community that the offer and talk of inactivity has little foundation, as is often the case with this chair. A respectable president. In the South, unemployment has gone far beyond its critical limit. Now, there is the opportunity to promote new ship - service groups, to help build up the harbor at Njardík so that ships can be placed and the harbor could thus be protected, that would be the basis for a group of ships that could create very soon 100 new jobs and even more. A respectable president. Transportation with the Western Islands is still under discussion. There is a serious concern that the international flight seems to be very difficult. There are too much taxes on the international flight, and it is generally necessary to deal with their problem of flying to the scattered parts of the country and especially to the Western Islands. There's also a problem with General's business. It has been missing large amounts of money, and it must be addressed as soon as the ship's operating expenses are met.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u11	A respectable president. I'll advertise for what? Councilmen who do not wish to allow beach fishing in September. I know it's the highest. Secretary of the sea, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, feels that he lacks legal rights to add the means of miniboaters'resources. I know why. A week ago, the head of the trade committee, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, told VOLV that she felt that there was room for a beach hunt in September. I also know that she discussed her position at the highest level. A minister said that he was optimistic about solidarity regarding the necessary adjustment to the council. But I don't know who they are who won't allow beach fishing in September. After the meeting of the committee on Friday, I believed that no one had objected to finding a license for coastal fishing. After the meeting, the director of the Commission went to the press and said that it was not a church's will to allow shore fishing. I must ask, proper President, of what pot. A senator makes that decision. The Chairman does not know how to stand in the way of that. A seafarer hides behind a lack of legal authority. V.E.G. A minister could have had a bill ready for the committee to move before the assembly began again. Similarly, the chairman of the Committee could have taken the initiative in providing a bill, but neither did. In fact, it was. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter, a member of the United States, who called for a reported meeting on Friday was the one here advertised by who actually stood in the way of this warrant at the meeting of the committee yesterday. I didn't get to know who's up against, only that it wasn't a solid agreement. So I wrote my disillusionment with yesterday's vague lack of solidarity. I'm asking senators who don't want to contribute to the small boatmen's efforts. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u12	A respectable president. We have been very successful in strengthening and strengthening shore fishing for the last two years. We have been able to expand our pot much and set a 12-day safety system for sailors. We have set up 48 days for Coastal fishermen during the summer season, and it is very important to make sure that there is plenty of resources for these 48 days. In August, it was found that the power would not work. They needed a few days, and I stressed it as the head of a professional trade committee, and I used them to look for ways to add even more to the beach fishing pool to make this possible. In July 720 tons were added but the highest. Ministers did not see the possibility of it, as if things were in the system, and if they were to do something, the adjustment would be needed. I wanted to have a meeting with a professional professional committee on these matters, and they agreed. Councilmen who did the same, such as why. A senator mentioned. We discussed these matters back and forth, and it became clear that there would be a legal adjustment if a fishing boat was to be opened in September. That was negotiated on the side of the government's side, and this matter, changes in the control of fishing, is not on the agenda. I concluded that there was no mood for the matter to be addressed, since all classes had to agree on it. I believe my evaluation was correct, and it has not been adopted by members of Pirata's council members at council meetings. I think we're gonna have to keep up the beach fishing. In the autumn, we take up the discussion for 5.3% of the crop goal system. Then we will continue to support coastal fishing and ensure 48 days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u13	This is a Covid thing, can be done right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u14	President. It has been interesting to observe over the past few minutes how government officials contribute the tone for their affairs during the winter by calling the criticism of the political opposition parties a púllism. I will then continue to do so, and here I am concerned with what governments have shown a great tendency to pick up in public under current circumstances. It seems somehow that the center of administration is that the country's special savings is the simplest-sized reserve. I take, for example, that one of the conditions of share loans, which are a means of subsidence for the loss of income in the prospect of an apartment and that will be discussed later today, was to be that the same paid individuals would have to sacrifice their special savings if they were to be allowed to enjoy it. Happily, it was wiped out because of our local government, or "populism, " so that, fortunately, I use the new word of the senator. Another example is the case in which the government's economic operations have been successfully implemented in the last few months. It is then that most of what was introduced in the media conference of the government in our time has been used in a way that was under way. The special property savings is the most useful method for the government, i.e. to have the public pay the bill and face economic hardships by walking on their own. This was at baseline calculated with 10 billion dollars. the scope over a two - year period, but now it has doubled. It is a special economy that people are taking out to face economic hardships without having to pay taxes, as is the case when it comes to encouraging people to use their special savings to buy their own housing. People are paying for this tax. It's taking the property out of it because it's the only options available. It's a business campaign for the government. This is not a government aid to the general population in the economic crisis. [[The president calls.]] By taking it out today, people are sacrificing much of the future's interests, and the younger people today are more concerned because they are walking not only on the savings themselves but also on future growth. [[The president calls.]] There is reason to warn against this trend. [[The president calls.]] The country's special savings is not a government reserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u15	A respectable president. Now that it's half a year since we've been closed for Covid-19, we have to look at the situation in society today. Is it all right to protect a person from getting the virus but not to protect him against other diseases or illnesses that are at the same time afflicting him? Unfortunately, ten people have died from the virus in this country. At the same time, however, 30 people have died, and no alarm calls have been made. Is that normal? Who are they? Why? What can we do? A passing hospital at the National Hospital of University Hospital is not in good shape, says a doctor who works there, and has never been worse in such a situation. He says that after the Korean virus spread, the health system has weakened. What about a waiting list in the health system where the waiting list for the orthopedic surgeon has doubled, leaving 450 people in almost 900? That's pretty serious, isn't it? What are the consequences of sailing into? Are we aware of the consequences of keeping people motionless at home? People are being harmed, even permanently, and at the same time, the production of disability on an assembly line for the future. What defense do these people have against the virus, if they get it? These are bad conditions that are being offered, and there is no ambition to change them. Nurses are practical, and each other's society after another reveals deals with the State because of losses. It's living a carefree night of life on the government. Despairers, parents of long - sick children, senior citizens, unemployed, low-payers, have no rise in their progress, and must harden the water of government regulations. At that time, a large group of musicians and dramatists will continue out of pay after six months in this awful situation. This is not welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u16	A respectable president. I'm sorry, but I have to reiterate a complaint that has been brought here many times over the years and decades. It's the act of the Senate itself. Some things can only be done fast or well, but not both at the same time. One of them is to form informed opinions and make decisions that are enlightened and based on different stage arts, different arrangements, and the like. When the General arranges for a time limit, as has now been done with this senator, it's pronounced, and for my part unpleasant, how all the emphasis goes on returning the whole project in time. Well, no matter why the time pressure is, it's the day when Congress gets out of here and somebody else. No matter how dramatic the point is, it doesn't change the fact that when people hurry, they can't do it as well. That's the cost of sacrifice. It's not a question of attitude, it's not a question of effort, it's a question of this simple phenomenon, the laws of physics, which enable us not to do all the things we want in zero seconds. Doing things well simply takes time. This calls for either giving time or making things worse. I'm constantly disappointed in seeing the World Council pick over and over again the latter. Usually when I give this speech or equivalent, for example Yeah. The prime committee, or Senate committee, is reminded that this is now all as if it were done in the years and decades. A respectable president. I challenge it. Councilmen to see what public opinion is about our work. That it was always this way is the exact point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u17	A respectable president. Today, as in the Western Islands, there is a serious situation, a serious situation in transport. The situation regarding employment and the business affairs of the country is also serious. I'm going to discuss a serious situation in Southnes where unemployment is the most and maybe not a very good situation. Still, news about Southnes is good, and I'd like to make it a point that there's an enormous number of opportunities to build up. It is possible to have a large, powerful job structure immediately by cooperating with governments, countries, and rural groups in the workplace. I would like to stress that if everyone lays down on one thing, it can be very bright ahead of Southnes. Let me just give you three chances of a lot of people. It is the shipping service, which was mentioned earlier, which is important to get started in order to expand our ministry here so that there is no need for an Icelandic ship to be taken to other countries as well as to get foreign ships to our home. Then there's a search and a rescue. Southnes have all infrastructures to build a powerful northern search and rescue service. I think we should get started right away. Then it is important to follow a warrant that the General Assembly has granted governments to place stocks in Farice to put a data exchange in Iceland. This could lead to great structure in the Southnes as well as in the entire country. It would be nice for everyone. You can start with this right away. During and after the construction period, all of these are in great need of service. They create permanent jobs. At the end, I'd like to stress that the South American rural communities will soon decide whether the Landsnet can lay a line 2 so that all of these projects can be realized. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u18	A respectable president. For the past six months, we've seen a huge global and national cooperation. It is our job to encourage cooperation with urgent projects, for with intensive cooperation, we can maintain the community's balance as possible through Covid. Many decisions for disease prevention and forestry at any given time have been made, but we have prospered in building the decisions we have made on the basis of the best available information at any given time. Their actions have been so repeated that they are effective. As is the case today, domestic infection is decreasing, and land production has not been reduced as much as it was predicted in spring. The government's work is still important, caring for individuals, families, and society, but it must also ensure adequate work environments for the community of currency. We need active development and innovation. It is good to see reports of the success of individual enterprises in making foreign funds for innovation. A new scientific and technical policy introduced yesterday by the government and a declaration of a 50% increase in funding for innovation for the next year is a great source of joy and the basis for future gains. On the other hand, it is very bad to see reports of an increase in economic losses as an enterprise no longer has access to loans. The interest of financial institutions to companies has not been reduced in terms of the growth of the Federal Bank and even appears to be lacking in credit. I believe the government must respond. There are people around the country who are ready for employment development, and governments have to make sure that there is that possibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u19	V.E.G. President. We now live in a changed world. We are in the second wave of Covid-19, which tells us that it could take a long time to rebuild the economy. Government reactions have been taking out a pack of action. The world's largest economy, such as the United States, Britain, Japan, and others, has been exposed to economics, which are the blackest human memory, and the greatest recession in national production since the beginning of the sum of those numbers. Added to this is increasing unemployment in these countries, which are rooted, not in the contractions of tourism, but in many other factors. A recent survey of many countries of the world's common desire for travel shows that it is the least historically said. This suggests that the hoped that when the vaccine is passed, a number of tourists will return to their baseline levels in sand. Covid-19 has already disturbed world food production and freight transport, including food transport. In view of this, our food security for Icelanders with our own production is an essential and realistic goal. Electricity with water, geotherms, or wind power in this region can be produced at a lower cost than in most other parts of the world. So if there is a desire to make it more efficient, the slow way back home is slow. We have a difficult problem with economic losses, the tourist on the white horse is hardly on his way here tomorrow. Our food security depends on the production outside the landstones, as the situation is today. How, though, are we in a position to deal with the possibility of a significant deterioration before they recover? I would at least slowly put my head on the pillow at night if the government had the answers to those questions. Government policy is called for in fighting the present state. The public and the company call for information about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u20	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion from a greater part of the welfare committee on bill to legalize a change in housing law. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of visitors, as well as 20 of the reports we received in our previous traffic or before a intermission. At the meeting of the committee on August 14, the majority of these appeared a second time. We presented a program in June, so the committee took a good time to take sides with them, but at a meeting of the Committee, we formally proposed a set of adjustments that the committee decided to make, followed by 11 reviews. With the bill it is suggested that a Homing House and Engineer's Office be authorized to lend a new kind of loan, so called share loan, to a certain proportion of the price of a house to buy. The loan does not pay interest or payments during the loan period, but its head seat at any given time will be the same proportion as at the original loans. Then I'll cover the board's payouts. In 1st. a-arms 2. says that sharing loans must be allowed to the first buyers and to those who have not owned property during the past five years, although they have the income under certain limits. The bill's report says that the resources are intended solely for the low income of the first buyers who pass payment but who do not have, or who cannot collect, for payment. The Commission reviewed the view that the income limits were too low, and that the range of revenues would not take into account the different positions of two groups, either in a new labour market and would be likely to increase in income within a few years and on the other hand, in a low income group that would be unlikely to increase in income. The majority point out that the bill is based on its material designed to support both groups. Therefore, it is not suggested that there be a further distinction between the groups in terms of the subject of the bill. In terms of the sum of income markets, the majority point out that there is limited quality to be assigned to those in great need who can provide the mortgage payments but cannot collect for the first payment. The quality of the loans may be more practical than the one available to loan institutions and may therefore create an even more efficient loan at a higher level than the one to support the bill. A greater part of it points out that supporting the government's provision of a housing market is not limited to this particular means or group that falls below it. As an example of other resources, the general housing system and the tax-free provision of special savings can be pointed out to the mortgage. At the same time, the majority point out that further mobilization has been designed to affect real estate prices and might have the effect of seeing Iceland's Sidlabankis being driven to take counterweight measures by increasing money management, e.g. with higher interest rates. The Committee reviewed that it is unclear what to do with a share loan if there are family changes, such as death or divorce. A major point is that in such circumstances marriage law rules apply, No. 31/1993, and the right of inheritance. If one of the owners of the property thus is thus kept, it may generally be expected that he will take over the debt that lies on it, including the share loan. If the property be to inherit the share loan, where the owner's property will be divided. Among the changes in the majority of them are proposals that they must be allowed to give an exception to the conditions where a person is buying his first apartment if he acquires a small possession of property for his inheritance. Then there are the changes made in the majority of the parties, the income criteria for married couples and couples. In 1st. a-arms 2. According to a Housing and Managing Institute, it is permitted to lend credits to first buyers under certain income limits to individuals who earn less than 7.560,000. each year and to couples with a combined income of less than 10,5 60,000 dollars. every year. In other aspects of the bill, it is reasonable to conclude that a couple's reference income is also intended to include couples. For example, we have 2 mg authorization clearance. a-arms 2. estimated that up to 30% of share loans will be allowed to be made to a couple or couples with a total of 7,020,000 income. The majority suggest adjustment for the correction of the above, as well as correction that it is not a requirement for registered living together. Then there is the section on the VAT for children or young people involved in candidates. The bill suggests that a certain amount for each child or youth up to the age of 20 who lives in the home will be added to the income market. To make sure that the children who are presented to the candidate and have the depending on their circumstances, the majority contribute to the change in child or adolescent status up to 20 years of age in the candidate or in the home. This change would enable parents to provide their child with adequate housing at home, whether by means of a child's home or by the home of a caregiver. In general, at 18 years of age, it is important to determine that the requirement also applies to children or young people living in the home, as is done in the bill. According to the bill, stock loans are given at other mortgages after the mortgage is passed on by the US Bank on mortgage loans to consumers. The comments of Arion's bank show that mortgages are often given both in the first and in the other mortgages. The decision is primarily designed to ensure that no loan is any other than those taken to buy an apartment further share loan in the course of the bet, but it is assumed that share loans will come after a mortgage. So puts some more part into that change of 4 mg. a-arms 2. to contribute loans to other mortgages, or next mortgage on a permanent bet after mortgage or mortgage loans taken to purchase the house. If the bill succeeds, it is clear that sharing loans will be far more favourable than other housing loans offered to borrowers on a public market. The report of the Tatt noted that unless clearly stated otherwise, the remuneration in this form would likely be considered a taxpayer. To eliminate any doubt, the more part suggests to us a-team 2. The bill adds to the law that the difference between terms of interest and value of conventional mortgages available to consumers on a global market is not considered to be taxable creditors, according to II. section on income taxation, No. 90/2003. 5 mg. a-arms 2. suggests that for the practical use of apartments, apartments are included that meet size and prices according to the regulations set by the secretary and apartment which take into account room sizes according to the family size. The Committee's review pointed out that the directive would be interpreted too narrow, so that, for example, it could be interpreted too narrow. Without children, only share loans would be made to buy an apartment with one bedroom or the need for consideration for disabled people who may need more space, e.g. due to a helper or a secondary room because of an employee with a MPA service. The more part is suggested that in Scotland and Norway the arrangement has been proposed to include family sizes to allow space to secure an apartment with one extra bedroom beyond the needs of the family on the day of application. The majority agree with the indications that it is necessary to consider not only family size but also the needs of the population. The procedure needs to be taken into account by individual factors, including Need the candidate and his family. Therefore, suggests that the extra portion is to change that using suitable apartments, it refers to apartments that include. take into account the size and needs of the applicant's household. In the bill, there is a authorization for sharing loans limited to the purchase of suitable new apartments approved by the House and Manicults Institute as a practical kit based on the Agency's contract. The Commission reviewed the view that the separation of new apartments might reduce motivation to counterbalanced older housing. Such a separation would prevent the resources to be used in cold market areas where the cost of building is higher than the market value of an apartment house. In various parts of the country, stores have gone through extensive improvements, as well as older housing, with other methods of use, have been rebuilt, or rebuilt, and converted to apartment living. The majority suggest a change in having to provide share loans to buy at the more efficient apartments in the older habitats, which have received counter-impliatory improvements, as they are in a state of equalizing new apartments. In order to get the most out of the country, rural society needs to allow space in its organization and currency to be able to build practical property there. 7 mg. a-arms 2. says that loans under the arrangement are limited to financial resources at any given time. It is assumed that insufficient funds for the loans are not allowed to meet the demand for them, although they meet the requirements for borrowing. The majority of them consider it important to contribute to construction outside the capital area and to the financial support given to the loans most widely across the country. In this connection, the greater part shows that about 36% of the population and about 35% of the population population of 18 ◯35 years of age live outside the capital area. In order to contribute to the further building of suitable housing outside the capital area and in areas where living apartments have been minimaled because of the difference between building costs and market prices of housing, it is important to ensure that the supply of share loans to purchase apartments in the country will be ensured in accordance with the availability. By working to expand the variety of residences and to clear the definition of what is considered for an efficient apartment, allowing loans to be lent to profitless reforms, it is also based on the lack of the structure of suitable apartments to fall into the hands of a few builders. Thus, the more part suggests a change in the general provision of at least 20% annual share loans to buy at an economic housing outside the capital area. It is based on the fact that the Homing and Manatism Organization has the above rule in mind in the disposition of the loans, but it will be kept in mind that the distribution of the loans is being carried out on demand and oered at the cost of housing. The ban is primarily aimed at ensuring that a minimum will reach the country's settlement, not once financed demand for share loans. A greater proportion of them also claim to be demand for share loans in the country less than 20% will be allowed to account for the budget to be used to buy apartments within the capital area. 7 mg. a-arms 2. says that sharing loans are limited to budgets for the class at any given time. On the basis of the expected availability of suitable apartments and demand for buyers who meet the requirements of sharing loans on the basis of budgetary contributions. As explained in the bill report, there is a 10 - year plan for the development of the resource but a yearly re-evaluation of budgets with regard to the scope and need and in line with the status of a real estate market. It is estimated that the loan will be about 4 billion. Each year, or 40 billion times. over a 10-year period. Build an estimate of the projection capacity of the construction industry to achieve economic, new apartments on the market and real - life building plans of the builder and the expected need according to housing plans. In addition, it is assumed that 1 billion will be laid. each year in reserves to make up for the need for additional future donations. As a result, the estimated loan to lenders is in line with the analysis of the expected demand and advising for practical housing. The majority suggest that the arrangements under which the loans are given will be rather clear. As above, in the bill it is assumed that funding for loans over the next ten years is sufficient, but the budget is not permitted to allow further applications to be approved by the House and Civilization Agency. Impressed by the lack of funding for loans, the arrangement was thus laid down for those who apply first for loan to receive loans, while others may have to wait longer for distribution. Therefore, the majority suggest that the provision of the Agency will be six times per year and that each year the Agency will be provided at least six times a year. 20% share loans to purchase apartments in the country. If the funds needed for distribution are not used in order to meet the demand for the loans, the applications that meet the terms of share loans should be reduced. An approved application follows a credit note for three months from the day of publication. It is thus assumed that the applicant has three months from the release of a loan order to purchase an apartment that becomes the loan layer. A minister is expected to determine the implementation of the regulations in which the date of distribution, the reference period of applications for each distribution, etc. In addition, the more part suggests that we reevaluate funds for the loan party each year, the financial status committee's Secret Bank, Iceland. - There's a technical adjustment to tell us that we'll be looking for information from Iceland's National Bank and we'll make that suggestion into the 3rd Environment. There is also the matter of personal borrowing. In Figure 3 1. b-joints 2. gr. it is stated that the applicant will have to contribute his or her own money at a minimum of 5% of the price. If you have more than 5% of your own money, you will have the extra charge to reduce share loans. According to the wording of the law, the applicant is expected to defend all his own money to buy in the condo. Thus, the provision does not allow for other transport costs, such as transport costs, possible infrastructure and car management, or other means of living. Thus, the majority suggest a change in the requirement that the candidate be allowed to hold after a sum corresponding to the normal household budget and stipulation, under the regulations set by the Minister. Then we came to the special property kicker. In the 7th issue of 1.mg. b-joints 2. gr. it is recommended that the applicant should protect the tax-free provision of special savings to reduce the capital of the first mortgage. According to 2 mg. 2.g. ; N.; D.; D.; A., N.; D. 111/2016, is one condition for the assessment of special property savings that the rights holder has not once owned an apartment. Since sharing loans are suggested to be granted to both the first buyers and those who have not owned an apartment during the past five years, it is clear that only the first group meets the aforementioned criteria. The Commission also pointed out that it was abnormal to attach the share loan to the above conditions. Since housing costs and housing are more important than fast ownership, such restrictions may be more difficult than others. With reference to the above views, the majority of the object contributes to the 7th number 1 mg. b-joints 2. gr. withdraw as well as corresponding modification of 2 mg. b-joints 2. gr. In this way, a special provision will be made to the head of the mortgage will continue to allow those who meet the criteria for supporting the purchase of the first apartment rather than obligation. The majority, however, stresss that the Homing and Managing Agency provides candidates with advice on the benefits of making use of existing resources to speed up property. In addition, the more part of the right to the tax-free provision of special deposit on mortgages has made it easier for the buyers of an apartment house to speed up property and to reduce the mortgage payments. Encourages the extra portion to set aside enough resources so that it will be useful to more people who are buying their first apartment. Next, we'll discuss the maximum loan time. Number 6 1. b-joints 2. gr. it shows the requirement for share loans to borrow which precedes the number of bets that will be no longer than 25 years old. That is what 2 mg says. The article that it is permitted to give an exception from the maximum loan time at the end of the 6th cycle to the applicant will take unfavourable loans. The Commission concluded that it works against the objective of the bill to limit the mortgage loan period for those taking 25 years to share loans, with the relief of income - poor groups, all of which were concerned with reducing their payoffs. Often, it would be the only option for this group to borrow 40 years. The majority agree with this view, but it shows that there are no other conditions in the bill for the leave-up period than for the applicant to take unsecured loans. The majority feel that it is generally possible to aim for the exception to be granted from the criteria, with the exception counseling of the Housing Agency. In addition, a greater proportion of the money paid for its first apartment is often less than others, since the expense of a household can be considerable. Thus it could be practical, for part of the shared loan group, to look for ways to reinvigorate later during the loan period, with the goal of shortening the loan time, if the person's pay period allows. Therefore, why not suggest a greater proportion of the expression change of the law, that a building office and construction agency should provide a reserve of 6rd Figures 1. the content of the exception of the Agency counseling, as the applicant takes unsecured loans. In view of the greater part, it is the advice given by Homing and Managing Institutes that provide candidates with a great deal of importance on the authority to leave maximum loan time. It is assumed that, in regular financial counseling of the Agency for borrowing, and in extension of loan time, it will be included. Reviewing the possibility of reimbursed loans of its first mortgage in terms of short loan time, allowing the payment capacity to be borrowed. Then there's an extra. Two. b-joints 2. gr. It is recommended that separate from the conditions of sharing loans should be met, on the other hand, on the exception of the conditions requiring the protection of the tax-free provision of special savings to reduce the head of the mortgage on the first mortgage, as well as the granting of the maximum loan time. As noted above, the greater proportion suggests that the first condition will be removed, thereby allowing the anyway. In addition, the majority suggest that a minimum of 2rd is permitted. b-joints 2. gr. that the person should have no other home house or that he or she has had residences in the past five years, has had a small share in residence housing for inheritance. Next, we will discuss borrowing time. In order to encourage loans to repay share loans, which first contributes to a share loan reimbursement in the sale of an apartment house or after 10 years from loan. It is permitted to extend a loan period of about five years at a time, three times, so the loan should be paid at the latest after 25 years from loan. - 25 years, it has to be applied in 10 years, and this is thought to be an incentive to get out of control. - In post-imbursement applications for the extension of loan time, Housing and auto-investment institutions should be offered borrowers at a meeting where the share loan status is reviewed taking into account the increase in real estate prices, mortgage status and the payment capacity of loans and guidance on the possibility of reimbursement options. The payment capacity of loans is not expected to prevent him from being extended, but the goal of the change is to obtain effective counseling and to be informed about his financing potential. A chapter on growth stipulates that borrowers are to pay interest to the House and Manorization Organization for interest from sharing loans has been borrowed over the limits of income during the past three almanac years. According to the regulations, interest should be paid monthly, and the management of the House and Managing Agency will take into account the cost of housing for their decision. The Commission reviewed that the provision of the Agency is authorized to determine growth on the basis of uncertain criteria. Then, it would be unclear which head seat should be the calculation of interest and how to change during the loan, since the loan's head would take into account the value of real estate as it is at any given time. The majority believe that by reimbursement, interest is an incentive to repay loans when income increases are unsaturable, since it does not consider the possibility of borrowing the loan or the amount of money money he makes to repay the loan. So add some more to the 5th. c-arms 2. g. Let them go away, but that others may be motivated to repay the loans, including, with short loan time and active advice from the Homing House and Manicults Agency. Finally, the revision of the measures taken will be considered. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested to add a new set of regulations for temporary application of the terms VI. Section A on share loans should be reviewed before July 1st, 2030. Clearly, the results and impact of the measures on housing will be in part prior to that time. The majority feel that it is normal to receive a more systematic review and for the first time before July 1, 2023. Sets more parts to change the content. Then a change in the bill's value code is proposed, and considering that it will take effect on November 1, 2020. In addition, the majority contributes to a number of technical changes that do not require any specific explanation. With the reference to the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made and proposed in a special Senate document. Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir writes this in advance. Other members of Parliament who sign are Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir, Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason. I want to finally thank you. The welfare committee for the work in this regard. We've had a good, long conversation. We've got a lot of visitors meeting us for reviews. We in the greater part, and I as manager, have always tried to make the changes and depressions we've had on the case. This has been a good discussion, and it can't be said that the matter was run in a time - consuming drive through the committee. We showed the cards in June, what changes we made, and how they worked out the reviews of the Committee, as well as the reviews. So it was not to be surprising, but, of course, the suggestions also changed. I think the case was worked out in a very cooperative and contented manner. Unfortunately, not everyone was caught on the committee opinion, and it's now just as it goes, but I hope the case goes through as expected. It's a case that came up in the Life Treaty that the government is going to fulfill. It's just one point, and we're not going to go against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u21	A respectable president. We'll discuss share loans here. I'd like to ask you what. An authority on how to make a living, for example. antler with 220,000 k. monthly paid to enter it because the bill provides an example of 35 billion. K. An apartment and the burden of payment can be no more than 40%. But, considering that, she's up to 60%. Then real estate bills, insurance, electricity, and various other cost groups will be accepted, so it seems to be my policy and that this group is being excluded. Was it viewed in particular?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. The bill and report shows that a certain income is being watched, and like what. A senator points out, of course, it is difficult for underpayers to buy property, especially in the area where prices are very high. But we're talking about a practical apartment, and we're also saying that there's a possibility that under a certain income box, 30% share loans can be given. I think buying property, and there are no interest, we fell off interest. I think it all matters. I think it'll always help out, considering what it's like in the present situation. This will be a possibility for disability and other low income groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's his Signý, Signor KristoffKristjánsdóttir for your answer. I'm sorry, but I don't see that it's enough for those of the lowest wage. Looks like there's gonna be a team that's gonna fall outside. The labor movement simply demands, mentioning Britain in this regard, to keep it as simple as possible. The simpler the better. So I ask: So how could you learn that it was simple at the beginning of 25 years, but now it is 10? Then it could be 15 years, then 20 years, and finally it could be 25 years. Things are getting really complicated by the costs I just don't understand, because I think, and it's been shown, both in Britain and elsewhere, and clearly shown, that the simpler it is, the better. Then people pay up faster. It would have been much simpler to have it only 25 years and then let people pay it up fast and get out of the system as fast as they want. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u24	A respectable president. I just want to say that in the greater part, we've been guided to simplify things, simplify the bill, we took, for example. growth. As soon as I saw this, I felt that it was a very complicated phase. We're not cutting the time down to ten years, but the subject has to apply for this again in ten years, and the avoidance of counsel continues. However, those whom it uses either to carry on or to deal with it in some other way or to get out of it are being supported. I think there are always benefits, both that people can approach them and that people are watching that things work out for them as best they can. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the presentation of a committee party more than that. Of course, there are a number of questions that arise in the handling of this matter. I'd like to start by asking who. A senator how the majority of the items are going to produce the 1 billion that are stored in a reserve. Iceland's secret bank asked specifically about it in its review, and there's no mention of this in a committee party. Then I'd like to ask, too. A senator how she can see that such a loan is of the age of 25 when the adjustment of more things sounds like this: Investment loans should be reimbursed in the sales of housing or after 10 years from loan. Ten years isn't 25 years. It's been 10 years, and I don't quite understand how it went. A senator sees that this is actually a 25 - year loan when it should be reimbursed or after ten years. More questions in second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. First, those 25 years. In all cases, whether sold in five or 17 years, a loan should be reimbursed at the sale of an apartment building. The loan should be reimbursed in ten years, but it is permitted to extend the loan period by five years at a time, up to 25 years, after counseling. And it should always be looked at what the borrower wants, but the avoidance of counseling and conversation between the borrower and HMS as to whether the borrower is on his way out and what options he has. So it's confirmed that it's 25 years, although the borrower has to go through this advice. How are we going to increase the reserve? He must be treated like the rest of the state's property, by the Navy. It is not specifically discussed in the committee's opinion. That's right. But I suppose it's done in the same way as with another money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u27	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of the fact that the bat must only raise a billion dollars of national tax dollars, as he normally does, there is no answer to Iceland's Council Bank asking how the greater part and the government are going to do with this money. If the late bank was to do this somehow, he would not be asking the greater part of that question. That's an irresponsible answer for what? Senator. In terms of 25-year-old loans and allowing them to be loans in Iceland as well as pension funds are permitted to lend money. That doesn't mean you get a loan. This does not mean that a member of the body's budget, which the senator says counts for 25 years, will be reimbursed after ten years, because it should be paid up, as it were, in the changes in the length of the section. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Thus, it cannot be claimed that this is 25 years' loan when it comes to changing the proposals that it should pay back after ten years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u28	A respectable president. It says, and I'm just going to read it again, that it should be reimbursed after ten years of borrowing or selling apartments. It is permitted to extend the loan period three times for five years, so the loan is to be paid at the latest of 25 years from loan. The payment capacity of loans is not expected to prevent him from being extended, but the goal of the transition is to obtain effective counseling and to be informed of his financing potential. This doesn't have to be wrong. I'm not going to do this money, this billion, somehow. Although it wasn't mentioned here, I think the government and the Councilman will be sure of how it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. A pilot for the story. This is in the big picture a very positive issue, and a positive objective that is behind it. This does not change the fact that there is yet another marketing intervention of the government that a large part of the country has a lot to work on. Many people have an interest in it, not just those with these provisions, but those with most of their savings in their own housing. I'm asking why. A member of the United States who was a member of the United States who was a member of the United States who was a member of the United States in the first place on evidence that the requirement for new housing is presented with the exception of the country, which is, in fact, lacking evidence in my opinion. When these measures are first mentioned in connection with collective agreements, there was a lack of new housing. That's no longer according to the data, so I'm asking if you haven't talked to me, during the summer's work to revise this, to ease this. [[The president calls.]] It's more expensive, just taking the money to your new home and spending part of the benefit that comes to those who take advantage of it. [[The president calls.]] It's a mistake, and what I find to be the worst of it is that this reduces people's freedom to choose a farm, the people who have to make use of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u30	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect the speedy deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. When these provisions were made and examined for the need, it becomes evident that there is a real need for practical housing, the new building of a more efficient home. Whether it has changed much since the growth of market apartments - there may be no particular analysis. And we didn't ask for an analysis of it, that's exactly right. But new and practical housing is still needed throughout the country. It has proved true. Of course, it will be the offer that will control the demand and this distribution, so this should not be a product for any extent to which it is concerned. I think the answer is that although it has not been specifically investigated, there is still a lack of suitable housing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u32	President. I thank you for the answer, and this is just a point that we continue to disagree about, perhaps I'll introduce it better in my speech. I'd like to think about something else, a point I'd like to know if they've been examined. Much work was done on the committee or on the part of the committee during the summer to correct the situation, and much good was done. But it's about reimbursement, growth failure, and sharing in an increase in apartment prices. The fact is, it is often expensive to be poor in the sense that in the end people often pay more for the resources they have to take advantage of. This is, in a sense, one of the measures taken in which the index increase in housing in recent years is considerably higher than the interest rates generally offered on apartment loans. In other words, because this is a substitute for growth, the usefulness of property becomes smaller. The only thing I want to pray about. The senator to use his minute in, I've finished my minute, and I've barely reached the word of the question, is: was looked at putting some roof there, i.e. If a market was to become a major possession, that it would not necessarily all go to a treasury store but would be covered somewhere when it was proved true that a government fund had received something for its own sake? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u33	A respectable president. The short answer is: No, we did not examine it specifically. But we thought it was worth the risk of the government taking over - if prices dropped, which can happen and always happen out of the country, or that it was possible to rise, it can always happen. [[Up front.]] The roof was not specifically examined. But that's right. A senator points out, it's a natural risk. But we felt that the complexity of growth was so vague and too much, that after three years, we began to grow when our income increased. It would just require that people hide money or something, or if they didn't give it up to some degree, so they would be overcrowding people in three years to find out what they had, just not worth the risk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to pray. A senator to help me understand a little more the evidence behind a change that the greater part made during the summer. First, about this reserve of 1 billion a year, whether it needs to be settled more clearly in the law. Especially because in these laws, there is an entire section on the reserve of housing owned and responsible for your community. I don't expect the greater part to be meant to contribute a billion to the countryside on this bill. Is that not a better look on the committee? Second, the change is to set 20% minimum outside the capital area. Well, I'm just a little bit concerned because my rural society is against it. The European Union suggests that there will be more flexibility there and that, for example, there will be more evidence. each member has the best housing programme in the country to assess the need. You don't want to listen to the locals in this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. 20% out on the beach, so I'll start with that. It has a degree of flexibility. This is on a yearly basis, and if there is no demand in the country, it will move to the capital area. That's exactly what they called it. The bill was not expected, but the country called for resources because of its value in areas where property prices are less than construction costs are not being built. Some places in the country that count even more than 1,000 people have not been built for 30 years. So no one will start building an economic home to meet these conditions. Then we put in these 20%, as well as the change of housing and renovating of facilities with other means of use to meet this. I think there's some misunderstanding about the relationship. [[The president calls.]] I'll just get to the reserve later then.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u36	A respectable president. In terms of improvement for the reserve that most of the part suggests, there is a question first. A senator has declared a change of motion between the 2nd and the 3rd. Um... if it could be taken more seriously. It would also be necessary to determine if this is completely clear about 20%, 20% of the budget or 20% of the number of applications. These may be two vastly different sizes. I'd like to ask about the change in the revision of the options, which I don't see calling for from any sources of information. So I'd like to understand a little more the reason why, because a review of the options for July 2023 gives us two and a half years to grow. It's just a very short time when you look at planning procedures and building procedures. Does this make any sense, or is it any compromise between the board of directors, in order to achieve right beyond the time of the biographies so that it doesn't have to be too tight?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u37	A respectable president. With regard to the reserve, it is true that it was not specifically covered. It was not much of a feature of the committee's discussion, and it did not find its way into the committee's opinion. But we believe that in the bill there are certain frames that we didn't see a reason for particular consideration. About 20 percent, this refers to 20% of the budget. We assume that there are some billions of people each year and that 20% of these will go back and expire according to applications. In terms of the revision, this is a new strategy, and we believe that there will be some reviews. We felt that this was a good time. [[The president calls.]] We were not looking to biographies. Rather, it was necessary to review at the end of a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u38	Mr. President. I recommend the Committee's list of members from the 1st small area of the welfare committee on the bill to correct the change of housing laws for sharing loans. The first minority of welfare committees rejoices with each step taken by the government toward a better housing market, ending much public health and progress in improving the security of the citizens of the country. At that time, less than 1st, both those buying their first apartment and those who lost their home as a result of the collapse of the bank have not had their home for the past five years. However, the first minor points out that the latter group may find it difficult to pass credit evaluations because of borrowing and encourages governments to seek advice to help out the group of people who can afford to buy property but who are not borrowing because of their past history. - This is important, especially when we're based on resources around a particular group, but there's definitely gonna be a huge threshold. It would be disappointing to see how late the bill entered the council, for it was anticipated that there was not enough time to be able to do what is important in such important matters. The bill is part of a government and labour market contract called a biographer contract made at the general labour market in the spring of 2019, or more than a year before the donation, and it would have been better if the Minister had given the council time to work professionally on the case after mid-June in the summer, in the middle of the Covid series. Implementation and government control of housing markets can have dramatic consequences, both for good and for bad. It is best to remember the impact of the 90% housebar on the market when housing prices skyrocketed and left the income and chemicals less physically uncertain about their housing. The movement fears and therefore needs to make all decisions regarding government control of housing markets, which seem to be lacking in this important matter. The bill has come under considerable criticism. Substantial transfers in this area are considered to be non-suspectial and too much power to implement this provision are being made to minister by regulations. A number of narratives pointed out the unfortunate nature of the widely distributed secretary's clearance in terms of government stability, the impact on housing markets, and the visuality and transparency of distribution regulations. The majority, however, contributes to the improvement of these factors only to a small extent. Experience from comparable measures in England and Scotland shows that increasing misunderstanding levels greatly reduces the effectiveness of measures. And how was that answered in the greater part? Yes, the majority of welfare committees decided to interfere more with the short loan time of share loans from 25 years to ten years and to add a warrant for extension to Housing and Manting Systems Three to Five Years. Then the manager allows the case on the committee, huh? paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, claims to say that this is a 25 - year - old loan. It's not. The borrowed time of share loans has been cut from 25 years to ten. Then you have to come back and apply. That is indicated by a change of motion. This loan, handed down to the House and Managing Agency, stands there, but the authority for the landlord and those who hope to continue the loan, you will gain the support and advice of the Agency, which undeniably contributes more on the Agency and the creditors. Therefore, if the Agency does not allow the applicant to stay inside the system, for example, it remains unsurpassed by the majority of the part. if you are unable to resist payment or because of other circumstances. If the loan is to be paid under these circumstances, the householder may lose his home, drop in due payment because of the necessary reimbursement, and remain unquestioning who they should resort to rather than sell their home and their family and go back to the renting market with the expected uncertainty. It's incomprehensible at this point, when it was negotiated, to create such uncertainty and complexity in this other good case. We've been talking about this for years. The party even landed. to a synonym that included so - called start loans, just for a group of those who are buying their first apartment. For some reason, it seems that such conflict developed between the members of the administrations that it had to be shortened to create a complexity that will undoubtedly lead to great uncertainty. The work of the Committee showed that there was no need for the treatment at this point nor was there a map, nor where the need was. At the same time, this study did not include the preparation of the changes in the development of more part on the criteria of the bill. It is known that measures already under attack to promote the housing market in many parts of the country have been successful and therefore not clear what the real need is in the capital area, in areas of growth in the region, and in cold areas. This must be done when the government decides to give at least 40 billion bucks. into the housing market over the next ten years. In addition, the greater part of the decision was made to add 20% of the resources to the country's area, and the greater part decided contrary to the U.S.A.'s recommendation to allow the use of an earlier home outside the capital area. According to a report on the need for an apartment in 2019, there is a maximum need for an apartment outside the capital area of 890 apartments and a minimum of 730. There are numbers that can be obtained from Housing and Civilization Institutes because the institution that and the rural community map the need. The comments of Iceland's Secret Bank on the matter were positive. However, both in the first and in the second reviews and in the case of the visitors, representatives of the Federal Bank, which came before them, were made clear. a welfare committee, that the bank's positive comments would require that the resources not be extended from what was presented in the bill. The majority suggested a change in the summer bill and were requested references to the changes made. Most people did not have reason to change the World Bank's prior assessment, but the bank noted that the difference in the nature of the second act was unclear, in which a change in 7mg is proposed. a-arms 2. g., and asked if the thought was that a minister was authorized to set rules in order to expand share loans without law change. We're talking about the so-called reserve, where an additional billion people will be put on some undefined reserve that is not mentioned in the bill itself or by law. It's just a sort of footnote in a paper with the bill. A first reminder shows that a report says that a 1 billion are expected to be laid. This year in reserves to fill the need for additional future contributions in order to take into account changes in the cost of government funds, which may change after the development of prices. The first minor section points out that, according to the bill, loans are limited to the individual budget, but it is not yet clear whether the funds of the reserve will be allowed within the budget or whether his use will be subject to the Council decision. However, it is proper to say that this 1 billion reserve is needed to support the need for additional future donations, which means that a minister is getting 1 billion reserves in reserves in order not to be scourging the funds at the General Assembly will consider adding to this contribution. All right. If more than four billion are involved, the Iceland State Bank has dropped positive comments. Then it is worth pointing to what was presented here, in contrast with the chairman of the case on the committee, that the publication of Iceland's Secret Bank does not reveal what the reserve will be. The late bank asks specifically about it, but it doesn't get any answers. The majority suggest, on the other hand, a search of the financial status committee of the Federal Commission for reviewing financial rights to share loans in the review of funds to the loan party and, on the other hand, for the testimony of the minister who has the government's budget on sharing loans and changes in it. The financial Ministry and Iceland's Secret Bank requested that most of the sector be modified. However, more part of the case made adjustments that went even further in terms of sharing loans than had been reported. The changes made were not searched for any of these individuals, the Federal Bank, or the Ministry of finance. The decision to make share loans to buy in older apartments outside the capital area, regardless of growth sites, was e.g. Contained after the change in the majority of the object was sent to inform us about it. Such factors must inevitably affect housing markets outside the capital area, especially where no assessment has been conducted, in the majority of the part or the management board, on housing markets and on demand for suitable apartments and on the lack of land. It's just this way, after a feeling. Because 20% of the people live there, let's go to 20% and then we'll let the older apartment over there, but the positive report from the Secret Bank objected that it would not be the same. It may be positive to allow the use of older housing outside the capital area, it should be clearly stated, in order to ensure that land use and not just in areas of growth. I'm not saying this can't or that this isn't bad or that it's a bad idea, I'm not saying that at all. However, it must be looked forward to a negative effect. It is important to ensure that these measures, which are to be used to support housing markets, do not affect housing prices in cold areas. In the case of housing costs in this extra demand, real - estate prices may further drop in areas where the cost of building is not consistent with market prices and the number of cold areas is empty. This would have led to serious consequences over a longer period of time. A greater purpose cannot be to promote such a condition. That is why those who happen to know the apartment market, such as. The European Union, strongly violates the proposal of a greater part of the Committee to conditions a 20% share in the country. The relationship simply pointed out that this is far beyond the need. The majority suggest that the distribution of share loans will be six times per year, so that if demand exceeds the demand, those applying during the first months of the year will be assigned and others would not be assigned. A reminder of the need to prevent this is less important than to wonder about the question, which is uncertain and did not respond to the treatment of the case on the committee, what if the part of an earmarked residence outside the capital area, in each chamber for each of the six times across the country, is not available. The largest part of this committee is defined as going to work on a project in the capital area, but the exact time for that to happen is unsolved. What, then, does this do for the projects in the capital area? If there's a public market and then money comes in, and we're not talking about any small coins, we're talking about 800 million. K, at the end of the year, what then? I want to repeat what I said here in the beginning. The outcome of share loans is an enormously important and positive step. Let us joyfully take every step that continues with this government in order to provide security for the people of the land because there is plenty of the rest, to create an infinite security. It is unsettled when things are being mixed up or made so unprepared that they continue to create uncertainty in the population. For this reason, I strongly encourage the Minister of the Government as well as the members of the Parliament's Committees to promote strict legal practices. The lack of time that we are offered at the council leads to a problem of legislation, both in the development of a prime minister and in its implementation at the General Assembly. This can result in great harm to the inhabitants of the country and to the organizations. Housekeeping is the most important investment in life. Many people go on that mission once. You can't throw it in the hand. Then I can't let it pass to mention the obligation to borrow the first mortgage from 25 years of age and to be longer if it is to be disloyal. I think more of the stuff's off. well-being committee only ignores the warnings recently published, both from the vice bank managers but also from the leading economist of the Homic and Managing Agency. But not only have they appeared in the media recently but they have warned against borrowing in these days because interest rates are so low that there are no doubt that money loads are going to rise because of the situation. For such heavyweight statements, such as the vice president of the bank as well as the principal economist of the Homic Institute, it is a question: Is it not good to stop and listen only to see if it is right to change or to wonder if something else should apply there? Why should we want those with the lowest income, the lowest entrance, the worst property status, to take longer on bail? Why only that group? There are some questions that arise, but finally I say, the union will support the situation. The union will support our doing all we can to assist the citizens of the country to secure housing and get more security than I wish we had done better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u39	A respectable president. Clearly, we would have needed a better time so that not all the misunderstandings were raised by the chairman of the committee. I think there's so much special language that's there. A senator, e.g. that if we start to encourage the construction of a suitable home in the country, it will call for an empty apartment. So I ask why. A senator whether he or she has not considered the community housing plan and the need for this. It may not be considered unless the need is considered. No developer will be able to build suitable apartments or change old housing if he does not feel that the demand is there. It's just a simple example. The reserve is designed to meet potential taxpayers. It's not to increase the pressure. They never said that. I just think it's a very special property thing. It stabbed me a little deep, that we're going to produce empty apartments on the land. I don't know why this should be to help with the supply or demand. This must always be necessary, whether in the capital area or in the country. I just want to ask you what. A senator whether she has been paying more attention during the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I watched very carefully. I watched very carefully all the work that took place on the committee. I also watched very carefully and read the reviews of those who gave us their opinion, including the Union of Icelandic rural society, which is likely the person who knows the best place in rural areas throughout the country, both in areas of growth and in cold areas. And it was exactly the Union of Icelandic rural society who protested the proposal because supply and demand must be held in order not to be harmed by measures like this. It was the European Union of Iceland that, on the basis of reviews and when the relationship was made to the committee, said that the need for housing in many parts of the country was not too great to make an earmark of 20%. We are listening to people who know the whole country, not just a single construction contractor whom someone has consulted while traveling. We're talking about the relationship that's charted it all up. Hv. A senator speaks of the reserve to be met by the depositor of state funds. There's no mention of that. I don't quite understand where this comes from. We're talking about 4 billion people who are going to do this, and then we're talking about 1 billion more to face some increased change. [[The president calls.]] We are not talking about how these borrowings will be. We're not getting this paid back in the same year. [[The president calls.]] Each year, an additional 1 billion are to be put in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I think the supply always controls demand and vice versa, that the demand controls the building of economic housing across the country. Hv. A senator also mentioned that borrower's range of options would require that he take the options and leave the apartment. Counts 'em out. So, a senator does not generally apply to other mortgages on his apartment? And counting. Senator that the counseling in there and we put so much emphasis on it doesn't always help? As a result, it is emphasized in the leading article that the loan continues to be provided with counseling.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this. The loan is granted to ten years and a renewal warrant. We don't have a 25-year loan. If it's about the government and more of it. The health committee is so concerned about giving advice to those who have borrowed from the Agency that the greater part of their autoimmunity is put in the bill that when ten years have passed since borrowing is to be obtained advice. This is not the case. In this case, borrowing is due after ten years. He'll pay off the loan. If he cannot pay off his loan, he should apply for a reimbursement on the loan. It's not about this advice. It's about cutting down the loan time from 25 years to ten years. Such advice can be given at any time. You can advise in two years, four years, six years, ten years. It's no big deal. But the loan is taken in the first place, and it's paid for. If you can't pay, the loan will pay. It's just that way. That's always the way it is. This, however, constitutes a deception when it is said that the loan is a 25 - year - old. It is ten years old, and it says there that it should be paid up in ten years. It's also permitted to renew. This is the case with any loan agency. You can. You can apply for a loan anywhere. You can go to the pension fund and it can be lent to you if you meet conditions. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing different here. This advice is great. Let's all take counselling.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u43	Mr. President. I had asked for an answer in a side room, as will now be the custom and will try to find some way to better convey a message later. But I want to thank you. A senator for his speech and wants to thank her for her support. It didn't seem quite obvious, at least The front of the talk, which is which. A senator supported the case but brilliantly. I cannot agree with the senator that we have not had enough time to work. I think we've taken a very good time and maybe longer than originally planned. It's just fine. I wanted to ask you why. A senator in particular is concerned because we are going to use some of the resources in the country. Now, as the text is written, 20% of the amount comes down to an apartment market in the country, which would then translate a sirka 80 apartment in the country, which would be, in view of the figures that were in force. A senator was present, somewhere in the range of 91⁄211% of the apartment need in the country at any given time. What I'm wondering is if the senator is likely, if the country's entire authority was used by the change of motion, that it would disturb the local housing market, as she declared they were concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for the answer that's very good. Whether the one here feels that over a ten - year period 800 apartments will probably be able to disrupt an apartment market? When the country's maximum need is based on the latest information of over 800 apartments, with a very specific option to benefit only those who earn most, only those who can't at all find money for payment, the group that falls into this narrow conditions, and, in addition, as I have read better - informed statements, it may well be. [[Every year.]] What I find unfortunate about it is that it is said: "If the demand gets smaller, then the funding can only go to the capital area. ' It's a limited resource, and I don't think it's too bad that the rest of it hasn't figured out when it happens. Because it also appeared in the work of the Committee that support is not to be given between years. If the demand becomes less than 4 billion a year, it just goes down. It won't be new next year. You can't take 4 billion in one year and 2 billion in the next year and then 6 and so on. because they're riding on real estate markets, in the opinion of the people most familiar. [[The president calls.]] And because we are not experts, it is best to listen to them when we have to make decisions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Based on the figures listed in Committee 1st, memory was estimated in 2019 that the annual need for new apartments was over 3,000 apartments, something like that, and actually a figure that has been known for a long time, that is such a yearly need. We are now going to take about 400 apartments a year, while we think about building some 3,000 apartments a year, which is then only more than the 10% we are thinking of being in the country. On the basis of the same reasoning, you might think that the matter was all bad. Because if we have more than 10% in the capital area, don't you think it's also possible to disrupt the markets there? Should it not, then, be just the same? I would like to mention this in particular because there were questions raised at the Committee's work, and the Councilman was visiting the committee specifically, and visitors were asked if there was any danger that this would severely disturb the local market, and the senator would correct me if I remembered so terribly. But I can remember that both the reviews and comments from committee meetings indicated that they would not, i.e. that this number would not be so disturbed by the fact that it was intended for a relatively distinct group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. The need for an apartment in the country is 890 a year. I don't see a document saying that it's an annual need for an apartment. The need is up to a maximum of 890 containers and a minimum of 730. This is an unfilled need in each part of the country, the estimated non-filled need, not to build 900 apartments every year. I am much concerned that the Law on supply and demand values, of course, also in the capital area. That's exactly what I've been talking about and a lot more talk about, there's a shortage of analysis of the case. When the case was being discussed, when the Ministry was called to the table, etc, research on supply and demand seemed inadequate in the case. Let us hope, then, that the demand will be considerably reduced and that there will be fewer people who can get into it, or what? I think it's a little awkward because I thought we were going to make a solution that would actually catch the group that needs the resources, but the conditions would prevent him from using it, for example. a requirement for maximum provision for alimony of alimony because there is a high income and maximum payload of housing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u47	A respectable president. I'm here to explain to members of the Committee to Re-Elect Part 2. First, I'd like to mention what is stated on my interest log that I have a property that is rented. I don't think it makes me in any way unfit, but it feels right to keep it safe, at least not guilty. First, I'm going to describe the work of the Committee and maybe of the Parliament in general and to review only what I think is lacking in the practice reflected in this matter as well as in a number of others. Second, I'm just gonna go over the committee opinion that's not far, um... one page. Most important, I will discuss points that have been presented in the discussion today or points that have occurred during meditation after the committee's opinion was presented for registration and distribution. As for the case on the committee, I'm new to the Committee, and I've been replaced. Mogensen So I have not been present to most people, only a few, in the treatment of the case. However, this has been enough to comment on where the matter is because it was the last meeting before the committee was resolved and the committee's opinion was written. Clearly, this matter could have been taken a better look at. People rightly say that there is a time pressure on this matter because there is a biographer's product, so are we at this councilster, and it's all a good argument, but it doesn't change it, as if I did a study of the council earlier today, that time shortage causes things not to be done as well as could otherwise be done. This is the nature of the matter and is independent of all excuses or reasons for the initial lack of time. No matter how justified and grammatical, lack of time causes worse work. It is prominent, both in the discussions here and also in the meetings I have been on the committee, that there is no diagnostic evidence on this matter. A number of questions arise, both here and at the committee, where there is no answer, are unknown. This is part of what could have been done better and if not, by finishing the matter later if it had been possible or starting sooner. It's like it is. I feel very sad that the committee has not been able to work better because I think it's a good idea. I like this share-borrow idea, and I find it very interesting. It is no boundless, more than anything I am aware of in financial matters and of any other time when it comes to long - term investments of individuals. But it's a good idea, I think it's a good idea. I feel like it's going to work out. I don't see any internal contradictions in her that make her bad. According to this, the process of exporting is of enormous importance. It's often forgotten. Often it is made up of minor details, but it is those that make a difference for how things develop over the course of decades. There are decades when people are investing when they buy property, a roof over their heads, at least in general. I'm just gonna swerve my second section. I'm not going to read it word-or-treat it, as is customary here, and I think it's a nasty custom and I want to break it off, it's going to be a part of it. In short, this is a good idea, as I did earlier. This is part of the biographer contracts. It would be helpful to discuss the matter further. There is much available in regulations that are not yet available. In addition, it is unclear how the system will prove to be, to a large extent, because the tools are not known, and the analysis and research needed to determine what the future holds after the implementation of this bill is unknown. So it is very important to be very closely monitored by the way this system develops right from the start, from the very first day on. It is very important that the authorities have their finger at their pulse how it turns out, what the problems are, and especially the problems of consumers themselves. I think that the problem is the hardest thing to analyze at first because often the consumer does not even know how to describe it. Sometimes the problem is a lack of understanding of the system, and it is often difficult to deal with in the system because of a systematic lack of understanding. Fifth, the committee's opinion allows a brief entry into the tenet. It is a characteristic of a healthy tenet that some people want rent. If the tenet is healthy, it comes with benefits. That doesn't require long-term investments. It allows for a measure of freedom in terms of mobility and such. The maintenance of the property does not have to be done. That is how it is when the situation is healthy in rent. I feel that there is a lack of a discussion about how to make the rent market in Iceland healthier and more reasonable to tenants because the emphasis is so fast on special policy that all the people of the country want and need to have their own roof over their heads. No doubt the majority want it, well over a bit more, but not all and the group that either want to rent or will continue to be forced to rent cannot be forgotten. We should not pretend that he is not important or that his interests are in some way less important. They're not, they're important. It's important to have a healthy tenet. Then, too, we will need this way of understanding that renting is normal. renting a house is quite normal. It's not an automatic problem. Of course, it is a problem if people are not allowed to choose, whether they want to own or rent. Then I have to mention what I'm going to call the crash group. People who owned possessions for the 2008 collapse, lost property in collapse, and are still on all sorts of black arts, not borrowed. In two reviews, the domestic economists twice noted that the problem of this group does not necessarily mean that he cannot afford a payment or that he cannot afford a loan, even if he does not get a loan, he does not borrow, he does not get the first or second mortgage that is needed to cover his share loans. The trouble of this group is not in itself a lack of money, i.e. Under normal circumstances, this would not be a problem, but he needs a loan and cannot borrow. This arrangement does not match that group in any significant way. In fact, it's good in the bill, it has to be said that it has the first attribute defined as not having property before or not for the last five years. That's a good price. But it does not match the group that does not borrow from loans because of black lists and such. Then I have to say, though it is in the committee party 2. My section, and later it has been discussed here, that the plan should be done well with underpayers, people in the position of not being able to collect for a down payment, I have no doubt that it will be a good thing for underpayers. This is most important because the conditions for getting share loans are that a person does not borrow, i.e. First mortgage, longer than 25. You can receive an exception, but you should borrow it indiscriminately. I understand that argument, I understand why it's like that. I'm gonna go over it a little bit later. But it remains that many underpayers do not handle an unscrupulous 40 - year loan or a 25 - year credit loan; they need a guarantee of 40 years'loan to cover their payments. That doesn't mean they're a good idea. I'll go over it later if time lasts for me. But there are other things I have to say, so we'll see if it works. Most important, as I mentioned earlier, these options need to be followed. They need to keep an eye on how they, in effect, will be on the market for the next month because the market changes. Others have spoken of the change of market today. This idea was revealed in the biographer contracts, which were done more than a year ago, the previous part of the last year. The market was completely different from today, of course because of Covid and no doubt other factors too that may not have such a direct impact on the market. Now there's a lot of sale going on. Money is very low on Icelandic standards, and rent markets are very different because there is so much house that is now suddenly available for long - term rent, a home that was once used for short - term renters who are not here and are not going to be here to a considerable extent, as you can see, for an indefinite period of time. Neither do we know how things develop after that. We're here to set up a plan that's a good idea, but it was born in a completely different environment than we're in right now. There's a couple of clients coming in. This is not in itself an argument against counsel. This just means that it is even more vague than the effect this will have because the idea was born at the time of the market. Now I have briefly explained my short committee party 2. My share and I intend to go to another point, many of which are related to what has been said. The case is a sign that putting too much of the resources into practice is simply dangerous. It's according to the S.H.I.A. Bank that sends in a review that I recommend people to read. He is very direct and clear in his statement that if too many take up the options, the market may have to be affected and the late bat may need to respond. As a general rule, it is not good that the cow's bank has to react to something or anything because it does so by raising interest or by limiting loans or by placing a stone in the streets of financial activity above what is desirable for consumers. There's another sign that it takes, that I think, to look at this remedy much better before it's legalized. No doubt some of that effect can be prevented or, at least, that we are prepared and arranged for certain changes, and it can be handled in a way that is not too harmful, at least not so damaging that it will affect the benefits of the bill and its legalisation. That food is always hard. There is something else I feel uncomfortable about this bill, as is the case often when the State is going to step in and help people who are in a position to need help and help. It is accompanied by excessive management, indeed, by marketing management. This may be necessary in some ways, but it is worth keeping in mind and trying to reduce the control, since it is possible and making sure that it is not too much of what is necessary. Autopilots are in nature bad; they can be necessary, but they're bad in nature, so we don't want more of them than we need, anyway, I don't. For example, it is conditional, except for the changes in the majority of the building projects, that this is all there is to the new building. My understanding of this is that the state, in effect, is investing in a portion of these assets, needs to be able to assume in some way that the property is rising in price or holding at least its real value over a long period of time. In fact, this is part of an investment made by the state, and it is likely that it will be risked to put that investment in an old apartment that is not known what will be maintained in the future and whether the price or the real value of the property will be reduced by the resulting loss for the money. This is a perplexing view, but it includes a measure of control that in other respects is not desirable, see that people who use this option have to choose areas where new buildings are to be built. We are bound to direct a little where these people are looking for housing. Another factor is 20% of the country's earmarks. An earmark may not be fair, but 20% of these components are required to go to a local setting where possible. Hv. 7. Witchest. "Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, did a pretty good thing about it earlier in return, reminding me rather than a speech, if not a speech too. I completely understand the point of the view, but it remains that this is a controlled operation, and it is essentially a bad one, although it may be chemical and necessary. These are the problems of going that way. It is also the various requirements for both the buildings and the applications that we are not yet aware of. They haven't been written to me knowing, at least they haven't been published. It is therefore difficult to evaluate their effect and exactly what the control effect will be. But this inevitably leads to some of the control of markets. Then there's one thing I don't know less about what I'm thinking about doing. It's 6 mg. c-arms 2. g. The bill that deals with renting houses that are purchased by share loans is not allowed. The European Commission makes a comment on this, and I think the committee might have taken a little closer look and thought about it. Perhaps there will be some time between the 2nd and 3rd. If I doubt it, by the pressure of time. People may have to rent out their possessions temporarily for completely objective reasons, not that there is anything indiscriminate about renting over their heads. People may go abroad for a month or so, and it is a little hard to pay all the cost of living a home without getting any money back. It is typically that people who go outside for a few months place their property on temporary rents, not on the basis of making some money in themselves, but on the basis of business expenses and loans while they live elsewhere and may not be at work in this country, but, of course, they also vary. It's a charge I don't quite understand. As far as I'm next able, it's an attempt to prevent abuse, I think, that people will start using these share loans in this way, but maybe there's a better reason for this in which I haven't yet noticed. As I say, I just got back on the committee and had to study the case at a record rate. At least I could have benefited from further discussions. A question that came up: What happens if people are forced to move for some reason? Suppose there is a difficult family disease or something that changes in a person's life, a very big one, which makes the person unable to live where he lives anymore. Then he will likely have to sell, and he no longer meets the requirements for his first estate in order to buy other possessions. I still feel a little confused about how this is going to work out. It will likely be discussed in regulations, but it would be good for us to have seen them ahead of time and to have received good answers. I hope, of course, that the answers to some of my concerns would later appear in the discussion or be included in documents that I have not yet encountered or that suggestions may be made to correct this, since of course we want the resources to work well. Then I'm going to go over to something that may be harder to deal with and really concerns real estate, and that's the misunderstanding. Shrimp steps are difficult and dangerous. Now I'm sure I'm a huge insult to many of our fine citizens, but it's obvious, after the collapse and the discussion that has been about insurance ever since, that people didn't understand their loans. They didn't understand what it was getting into. There was a lot of people who did not understand how the loans would change according to the other or those circumstances. It was known that there could be an inflation in Iceland and that would raise the loan. It wasn't a secret, it was known. However, most people who do business other than financial, political, or some form of expertise generally do not take advantage of long - term investments and real estate purchases are long - term investments. It is only natural that people do not have the knowledge needed to make the most informed decision. Therefore, people need much guidance in making the right decisions, whether they are in terms of insurance, insurance insurance, or cheating loans - I would now almost always recommend loyalty - steady growth, or change growth, whether it is wise to take equal loans, or even if they pay even for 40 years, 25 years of age, or whatever. All of these are the decisions that a consumer needs to make and must understand the consequences of his decision - making on every single dimension. The debt is adding dimensions, and it is only vaguely stated how to figure it out, in some respects because of the fact that the regulations have not arrived but others, I think, is just the nature of financial greed. The government invests in part of the property and gets it back to ◯ when the property is sold or after 10 to 25 years by getting more back, probably because the value of the property is higher than when it was bought. It is the fruit that the Kingdom receives for its investment. I don't think it's wrong to check, but it's natural that if the consumer wants to ask after three months where his loan stands, the answer isn't very clear, if the person's going to appreciate what it's going to do to sell on it, he needs to know the price of the property. Usually, real - estate estimates are used for such calculations, e.g. to calculate real estate costs and aim for credit rates in credit institutions and such. I can't see it being used in this bill. I can see that it's used, not in this bill, but in some kind of assessment of the House and Manoring Institute, and real estate sales, and that sort of thing. It is not insurmountable, but it is more complex than looking it up in the home bank and, above all, focusing it on real estate prices. Because unlike loans, people in general can only look up their home bank and see how it works, who the head chair is, and what they've paid of, and all of that, there's no real estate assessment or assessment of the property. That would be a real estate evaluation or something that, of course, changes from year to year and is estimated from all the reasons I'm not going to count here, because I don't even know them. This means that if an consumer is going to be left behind, e.g. For two years to pay off some of this debt, first he needs to figure out who it is. That's probably also because there's a 5% mark there that I didn't realize at the beginning why. Most mortgages today work that way, hopefully, that they can be paid in. Sometimes there is some financial cost that is generally not high or often not there today, which, fortunately, ends a disgusting phenomenon. If you want to pay on the loan to get more share in the property over the years - that could be the yellowest for someone who has already bought a estate with a share loan - you need to start by working out what 5% is, how high the loans are really high. It's the percentage of some value on the property, not real estate food as I can see it. True, it is not available because the house is not on sale and has not been sold, and the price of sale is something to be evaluated. There is not some number that can be looked up and calculated. This is likely to be the reason why it is this 5% requirement for a loan because finding out what it should be, how the consumer should evaluate that investment if he does not know what the value of the menu is. Since the loan is actually interestless, unless we understand the increase in this provision as a natural product, all of this makes it more difficult for the consumer to make informed decisions about how to manage his finances. Suppose someone goes for some reason, gets a raise, sells his car, or whatever. Then the consumer needs to know how to make the most of it, and it's harder in this system. As I mentioned earlier, there isn't necessarily a major solution because long-term financial gains are a little complex compared to what people have gotten used to, e.g. To get paid once a month and to buy food and gasoline and stuff like that. However, it is important that things are explained, predictable, and transparent, and the information that the consumer needs to make as enlightened decisions as possible. So we sacrifice something with these systems. The change in borrowing is paid back at the latest 25 years after borrowing to make it payable after 10◯25 years will also only distract the system. I'll take that argument from the bottom of my mind. The figure of 25 years, but this advice needs to be sought after ten years, and still needs the share loan, you get to keep it for five years, then again five years, and again five years. I'm fine with that. But this too is confusing. It makes it more complex and difficult to find out for the consumer who is going to have a good view of financial matters and to take informed financial decisions, what is the wise course to take in the situation at one time. Now I happen to be so lucky that I have a little time left when I'm finished with most of the points I was going to mention, as a boy. Senator 11 of the Southwestern District is celebrating, I hear. It is worth telling you that in the review of VR, the opinion that I think is right and I hope is correct is the fact that this option will lead to a reduction in prices. If so, that is very positive. Price insurance is another phenomenon that is not too complicated for the person who sits down and intends to understand it and put on some sort of tablet design and stuff like that. But for people who are just thinking about having a roof over their heads and listening to a banker to explain how they are done, it is a little more complicated, especially when you look at the many decades of inflation and inflation somehow, as well as the rewards and all of these. Even to highly informed people who take their financial advantage and analyze everything, these are the most complex decisions, even the smartest people who have all the information and leave them all in the basement may have a little problem, or at least they may have to take some risk. Of course, you always take a chance in some form. But insurance is a particularly opaque phenomenon, and it is absolutely impossible in the opinion of the person listed here to offer it and to ensure adequate consumer protection. I've been giving a lot of shit about the insurance policy before the extent to which insurance is systematicly high in our economy is also harmful. It's not just a question about the consumer. It's also a question of how our economy works. The value of real estate loans has an additional effect on the economic system that is undesirable or, at least, complex and strange, and it is essentially bad for all economic management and government decision making on how to maintain a good balance in the economy. So it's a good thing that this therapy reduces insurance, and I hope it makes a great deal of it. However, as it is also accepted, there is a limit to the extent to which these measures can go because, as soon as it is used, it is too much, the Federal Bureau of Education, financial advisers, and such persons worry that there is a need to react in some way. There will be an error in a real estate market or some changes that could have very harmful consequences. This is one we would like to offer, but at the same time, we need to be careful not to use too much of it. Sure there's a problem. 11th. Southwestern U.S.A. also serves as an expert in this study. But it remains that if we could find what we would want to make the most use of, it would certainly be better to plan some options. That would be the best, but there is nothing certain that would be possible. It is important that we accept this bill with our eyes open to these shortcomings and defects so that when experience develops on this system, we are well - equipped to respond with reasonable adjustments. I'm assuming we'll make some changes in the spring, and we'll just be prepared for it. It's, like, a lot of these kinds of options, some kind of experiment, and hopefully it's going well. But let's finish this project with our eyes open to the fact that we don't see very far into the future, for reasons I've been tracking in a reasonably long way. A respectable president. I've made an explanation for a committee party 2. My share, excitedly waiting for an answer, and I'm going to let someone else in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir In this regard, the Hrafn Hrefjönsson of Gunnarsson for this discussion, where he went through a wide range of excellent tips and reflections on this matter, since it is a new strategy and what it is like. I was going to point him. A senator owns his place. In the bill it is expected that a regulations will be made to allow temporary deposit to be given to an apartment building. On the committee, we received a suggestion that a regulations that may not have led us to what? A senator who came a little late into the discussion. It is assumed that temporary extradiving will take place for the tenures of an apartment building. Taking into account employment loans from a legal home or for study, illness, disability, or other objective reasons that would be listed and that would be appreciated by HMS. I just wanted to get there. Hv. A senator spoke extensively about the conditions involved, had to be a place to live, and a home being controlled. Would it not be better to have this so that there could be a wide area around the city or the country, more options than to build a suitable neighborhood and control less efficient groups of income?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u49	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer, and I'm glad to hear it. Thank you for the rent information. I hope I can come in on both points. A senator in this short answer. For the right of an individual to rent out, that's good news. You're right next door. A senator said that I was late in the discussion of the committee and that I might not have had all the evidence I would like to have had if I had been a member of the committee since the fact was submitted in the summer. However, it remains what I was discussing in my talk, i.e. The wheel, which will so often surface when authorities are about to help. Then you need to place some frame around it. As the owner of a house, I don't ask a king or a priest to see if I can rent it out, I'll rent it out if I want to, of course, according to the law and duty, but I don't have to prove that someone I'm sick or prove anything about my work or my income. I'm just renting out my property. Well, that's one of the things people want by making real estate, i.e. The freedom to make up that real estate. This is something that you generally cannot do in a rented market, at least not to a large extent, so the problem is still there. But it's good to know, and I would. A senator thanks for that. In terms of controlling the farm, all resources are in place, causing some effect on the market, somehow controlling it. That's right. But we should usually do as little of it as possible. As soon as we build, for example. A new neighborhood is creating new options for a market system that goes outside the box thought by the authorities. To illustrate: We have sound reasons for having the necessary resources for new real estates. So someone points out that it may be logical to apply it also to apartments that are very well and well made up. That makes sense. Then we will need to respond. On a free market, there is no need to respond. This will simply make the apartment worth the price of a new property because it is worth more. [[The president calls.]] It's a good thing if we avoid making decisions on our own. This may not always be possible. I hope these answers answer questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u50	A respectable president. Here we discuss a big issue, even though it may not be extensive. The bill itself is only four articles, yet meaningful, and it can exert a powerful influence on many. It is important that we do well, so I now declare my joy with the time we had received in the summer to digest and cover the matter and then have the opportunity to make it better than we would have done in the time of the early hours. There are several factors that we have considered in the second treatment of the matter and that have made significant changes in our lives. But in such matters as this, as we are creating a new housing system, which is in a very variable housing market and many variables that can affect the progress of the situation, I think that the experience needs to teach us a number of things so that we can unwind it. There is, of course, something about regulations and further implementations and such. But it is important to keep the bill as clear as possible and have been tried to explain it considerably in the case of the committee. As noted earlier, regulations and such have also been added to the matter that there is a need to be agreed with other government ministers and financial status as well as to consult the Federal Bank without any adjustments. All of this is done so that real estate will not be affected adversely. I'd like to, however, because it's only been mentioned that there's a lack of analysis, but it's a good thing that a house and construction agency, a new agency that's going to work the most with these laws, has come into existence. The new organisation has an increased role in the analysis of housing markets. This has been done for the past few years, the camp loan fund, the predecessor of the new agency, has done so, and now the new agency. So there has rarely been as much analysis as it is today, and considerable of these committees have been introduced in memos and other information presented to the Commission, both before this case and in the case of the case, so we are not going blindly into the water. But I would like to start by saying that what may be the greatest uncertainty in this case is the demand and the demand, the demand for the share loans, the number of people will, or the need to take advantage of this resources for their first possession, or to return to their home in five years without having a home. And how many people are first shopkeepers? There's one variable in this. But the big change is how much practical housing will be available. Somehow, it's my feeling that it's what's going to determine how this situation works. How many apartments will the construction industry provide for the resource? As a result, I feel that these 400 apartments, or 4 billion expected, are not effective because it is completely unclear whether the construction industry can produce 400 apartments available to people, who want to take advantage of this resources, because the practical facilities that will be built will be on a public market. As a result, anyone involved in a public market who intends to buy a suitable apartment without a share - loan can buy the apartment before anyone who is planning to take advantage of a share loan can buy it. So, indeed, much more than 400 apartments have to be produced by the construction industry so that financial resources of the resource will be fully used. And then we are also hearing these days, and there are natural variations according to times, that the first shoprs have never been more than at present. It may well be available there for some apartments other than a safe, suitable apartment, even larger apartments. The first buyers may want to look to the future and want to have a little more ice cream, or they may want to buy their own house and renovate, or they may want to live in a certain neighborhood and so on. It may well be that the construction industry is following that demand rather than the economic camps because more conditions are available. So I think it's gonna be a little perturbing to watch. In terms of costable housing, the exact way in which rural society meets the options will also be of utmost importance. Will they be ready for areas where it is possible to build suitable housing? Will there be enough weights? What will they cost, and what fees will they pay? If property scarcity is missing, expensive, the organization requires some of the buildings that will be built on it, and then there are skysized subsidies, it may be difficult to build a suitable apartment in such a rural society. This kind of thing's gonna matter a lot. But if the supply becomes abundant and the demand is high, it is absolutely clear that the rights being prepared here will be distributed in a reasonable, predictable, and reasonable way so that equality will be guarded. Similarly, those who volunteer their apartments compete for a fair and transparent market to sell their apartments through this process of resources. So I think the only most important change we've ever suggested instead of trusting in the first one, is that we put it in that it would be distributed evenly to the population over a two-month period, so it would be about 80 apartments every two months. Then there may be more space to wait for something people prefer to have, and they don't have to rush back to the previous part of a year because they fear that all the resources will no longer be available in the latter part of the year. Similarly, if everything ran out of the early part of the year, the pressure will not have to be the same in terms of the latter part of the year, it will have to be equal. So I think it's extremely important. Each loan will last for about three months. If there is extra demand in each distribution, it is expected. It is more detailed in Regulation, the candidate will be drawn between the candidates and any other. This has made things clearer and more equal, transparent, and predictable. This is of importance in the case of limited quality, and it must be distributed. Then I want to find out what much has been discussed here today, i.e. that rather than borrowing for 25 years, it is for ten years, but it can be replaced three times by five years. This is of utmost importance in ensuring the interest of borrowers. They need to make an informed decision whether or not they will want to continue with their resources. They go over their possessions, whether it's more practical for them to pay off their resources after ten years or to ask for an extension to five years, to check their own posts and other items. With this 20% share of the house, the same share loan as the loan, the borrower is always sharing his property with a trust fund. So the sooner the person gets out of the budget, the lower the budget for the state funds, he pays for his share loan. That is why we wanted to do so, so we all had to make a decision to reimburse the loan and go through the process so that they would no longer be in the power of practical means. It would be their own wish, their creditors. It's very important. The experience from Britain shows that in about five years, most of the resources went away, much sooner than everyone expected. I don't think this is going to be an extra ambiguous phase at all. This will ensure that more people appreciate it as if it would be better for them to take the options sooner because they always share the benefits of 20% of the house or the corresponding proportion of the share loan with the state's funds. It is believed that these properties will take seven to ten years. That's why they're ten years there, that's why. Then I'd also like to guess that it's never been easier to reimburse an apartment than today. You have to cancel the time stamps from your credit card. We're low. The competition between pension funds and banks is to lend, so it has become much easier, and the housing market has improved and changed considerably in recent years. It must be kept in mind, therefore, that it has become far different and easier today to repay money than it has been. With this in mind, it is also an important change in the length of the loan up to 40 years. The principle is that credit time is no longer than 25 years, but you can ask for an exception and borrow 40 years and still have a share loan. I can honestly say that I do not personally consider it advisable to have a loan of 40 years to be borrowing, but it was the result and I accept it completely, I would have wanted people to have their own choice, especially because it's becoming easy to repay loans. But if you have an unscrupulous loan, you can borrow 40 years, if you want it, and you can get advice from a Housekeeping Institute on it. This is an important change. We took out the requirement to pay the credit card. Most, though, should be aware of how practical it is to use your special savings because you can take it out tax free and put it on the mortgage and lower the head chair, thereby reducing the financial cost and getting the tax cut. This option was available only to the other group, i.e. First - person shopkeepers, since an apartment previously has been an apartment must not take advantage of this government's resources. The majority of the committee points out that it might be advisable to consider extending this resources so that anyone in the EU could use his special savings for a faster use of property in his housing. This is something to consider. But it is important not to have people, but to have their own choice. Having the freedom to choose is a principle that we must always bear in mind, and we think about here. It was also a very good adjustment, and I think that this is one of the first legal procedures at the Council, which takes into account that a child can live with both non-slocation parents, and both parents have shared custody, and both have right to the baby, and it can be taken into account. It's a very positive compartment, which I celebrate. Then, too, it is clear that young people can wish to have one room bigger than their family size. It is quite likely that during the five - to - seven - year period, people will have a child or some other change in their family shapes, so they do not have to go through the resources before the formation of property has become so that they can finance a bigger home themselves. There is another very positive change in this. Also, some changes in the rebuilding of apartments were discussed and discussed. It was confined to the region, where many areas of the country are not new and have not been able to sell on the market and on other markets or have not been in public traffic, such as housing in the old zone and other areas. It is of utmost importance that these assets are new and that it contributes to innovation in their rebuilding work, making them more practical and useful to increase the number of apartments and habitats throughout the country. Therefore, it was evacuated, e.g. if you have a significant rebuilding problem that can be compared to the new building or that the apartments are practically flannel and are going back to food. There was one measure that was discussed in this regard. It is very positive that this has been inserted and will increase the likelihood of land-wide waste management and a positive effect on the residence market in many parts of the world. Then I've been through the main points and I'd like to say that this has been done well, making it more transparent and clearer. There is now no way to ensure that financial stability in the government's financial finances will be gained and no changes have been made that have an abnormal impact on the real estate market, so the Sensitian does not need to resort to direct measures with increasing interest in this strategy. I believe the funds planned for this project will be useful, so I hope they will do it. So I hope that this process will go well so that the public will be able to have their own apartment. Much more of the tenants, more than 85%, want to have an apartment, and that's why we should contribute. I hope this bill will increase the level of construction now that economic growth has drawn together, and help us increase the economy and put an injection into the construction industry. I hope this will lead to bigger, healthier real estate and more housing. Then we've done a good day's work at the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator said that one reason he asked important questions is whether the rural communities will be ready to take over and offer the possibility of building a suitable home. Will they be prepared? Will they be ready for land? Will they be ready with wood, all that is needed to make it work? This is a particularly big question to me, in view of the fact that the greater part suggests that the law's revision will be accelerated so that the structure takes place two and a half years after it takes effect. Yet, while our rural society wants to be ready for all of this, it may take a little bit of time for us to reach our destination of choice. If all rural areas go to full development on November 1, then they may not be given keys until two or three years later. I'd like to hear the argument of the greater part that the law's review is being made so overwhelmingly close to us in time. Two and a half years is a moment when it comes to the complex planning process ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u52	A respectable president. Thanks for the cross. Senator. It is estimated that the measures taken are ten years old, so it is reasonable to reevaluate considerably before the first scheduled time. I don't see the point, then, of reevaluating it regularly and quickly. As I mentioned at the outset, we are relatively new to make a comprehensive analysis of this market. It's changing rapidly, and there's a considerable amount of legal authority in the bill. So I think it's perfectly normal that we're ready to respond in such a big business as the real estate market. Although the rural areas of the capital area, especially the capital, may be very suspended in organizational matters and take a long time, I expect the rural communities around the capital area should at least be quick and even have neighborhood planning already. It is already financed, so experience should soon come upon it. So I don't see anything unusual about the fact that we want to have lived below us and take a quick look at the options.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u53	A respectable president. Now it sounds like a why. A senator and I have a different understanding of the duration of options. I understand the bill, as it turned out, so that after ten years it was due to be revised, but if there's any reason to continue to do so, it could remain permanent. If the community still needed to build suitable housing for people in need, the project could be maintained for longer than the ten years laid down in the bill. But these ten years have now been turned into three whole years. I've been through all the reviews and I don't see any call for this. Watch your step. A senator informed me of why? Where did the idea come from? What is the need to answer by extending this seven - year period?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u54	A respectable president. As I came in earlier, it's clear to me that the plan depends on the budget. The government decides on the budget how long it will work. So we can't decide today whether there's a time on the case. But the calculations here are all based on 10 years. Once again, the same answer as before: The real estate market is changing rapidly. We'll have more analysis. We'll see how this thing goes. This arrangement contains a great amount of rights that can be changed by law. And the sooner we can make the law code around this clearer and more complicated, the better. And that is why it is reasonable to speed up the revision, which is not dangerous.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the review of his understanding and interpretation of this matter and the changes made by the majority. I thought it was interesting to hear it. One senator says that the basic thought of cutting down a loan period from 25 years to 10 years is that a borrower had the freedom to choose a loan, that a loan would have the freedom to choose which means he would use. I have to say what. A senator that I am a little sad in my heart over the years of privilege that shines from those words, the privileges of those who have not experienced poverty and who have not come to know the insecurity of housing. Those who live in poverty and insecurity in housing do not have the freedom to choose a loan. They're making this resource because those who live in poverty in Iceland and those with the lowest income have no choice just to take an extra loan here or borrow from Dad and Mom or what it is now. It's a social resource we're creating here. We need to keep that in mind when deciding to cut down a loan period from 25 to 10 years. It is easy to make an informed decision to continue in the situation. You can take care of the options at any time. It can be done after five months, after five years or after 10 years, if you have a choice. [[The president calls.]] But it is a social arrangement we are making, and we must associate with it, not with eyes and glasses of high - paying people who can choose where to borrow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u56	A respectable president. I can't wait for that. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir said anything about my life, whether I've experienced poverty or not. She has no right to say anything about my family life or to state what my family's income or housing matters are. I don't want it involved in this discussion. I regret that I'm being made up of myself that I'm making this decision because of my life's race. There is no way to discuss this in that way, a respectable president. But to answer that second, I would like to say that all the person needs to do is ask for an extension, and he will be extended regardless of his financial situation. It says clearly, this is not supposed to create any insecurity for one person or anyone. This is just because we simplified the matter, and it was to try to secure the interests of government funds and other things. If the individual's income increased beyond the income limit in the bill, they should start paying interest after three years. We took it out and put in place this requirement that the person be asked for its extension, as if he had gone through it at the Housekeeping and Civilization Institute, whether he wants to reinvigorate or not. There is no obligation to anyone, and no one should fear losing that loan after 10 years wants it to be 25 years of age and to share it with a trust fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I wasn't talking about economic situation. Senator, I was talking about the speech, the basic thought of this change in the greater part of cutting the loan from 25 to 10 years. I was quoting the senator's words that the basic thought was to have the freedom to choose a loan, to have the freedom to choose whether people will walk out of such social resources or not. I was pointing my tail. A senator says that there is always freedom in all the transactions you have with credit institutions. At any time, you may be able to take some steps, but this is to say that the loan is paid up on sale or after 10 years. However, the loan agency is authorized to reimburse the loan, to apply to the individual. But there is no such obligation. There is no record of applying to the person in this case to allow the loan agency to provide continued authorization for participation in the options. [[Foreground on, yes...]] There's nothing like that. This is a document, and laws are interpreted narrowly. That's the law, and it knows why. Senator. I hear that the pilot dies here in the hall and says, "Yes, it's an obligation. But that should be where the Agency offers loans and candidates continue to borrow. Here's a warrant. If it is the understanding of the greater part that it is the responsibility of the Agency to continue borrowing, it should be in the law text because it is the law under which the Agency follows.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u58	A respectable president. I got it. I got it. A senator to hear his speech again from my words. She said that years around my comments about this adjustment were the year of one who had not experienced poverty. I just want her to listen to her own words and read what it says. All that the person needs to do is get counselling at the Homing House and Engineers Institute and ask for it and then the Agency shall extend the loan. It is very clear according to this, and it is perfectly clear that if the person wants it and gets advice on what that means, the person gets the loan, and there is no need for uncertainty. [[It doesn't say...]] It's totally like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u59	Mr. President. We are here discussing matters that concern the interests of many people. Above all, it certainly involves the interests of the poor, poor people, and families to whom the options are directed, and that is well. But it also concerns the majority of the common people, who actually have a lot to do with how cases develop into real estate. As we know, the majority of people with their savings depend on the real estate on this market. There is a great deal of effort to achieve a successful outcome, not just in terms of the low income of individuals on which these social resources are focused, but in general, for those who have a interest in real estate. I guess we're all aware that cases have evolved in the way that investment in concrete pays off in Iceland. If we switch the last 20 years down to a five-year period, the index of apartment prices in the capital area, e.g. an increase of about 30 to 4700% in each individual period, usually in excess of the current number of pay. There, government action and declared policy have had the least effect. At the same time, the rent environment that has been built in this country is somewhat adverse, so it is very important that the government makes the real estate market accessible to the number of people and families with social resources such as what is being discussed here. However, such measures and measures need to be met, if appropriate. First of all, there must be some reason to believe that these measures will benefit those who are going to help. Such actions need to be simple, clear, and accessible. They also need to be reasonable, and governments need to ensure equality with their use. In this way adequate analysis is needed to identify the effects of the resource on the real estate market. It is important now that the government can fulfill its commitments under its lifetime contracts, in order to obtain the desired results and not cause the group of people to be directed toward, those being involved in this action, damage, and failure to cause the overall damage that could then be difficult to wind down. I don't think that these conditions are all met in this bill at the highest level. Governments. It's, for example. positive for supporting new buildings. Such measures have fallen to reduce lack of housing and to counteract the cost of living in an apartment market that is already insufficient. On the other hand, I believe that there is reason to set question marks, as I have done before, to that decision at the highest. Ministers to direct the low income loads of the first buyers and other low - income buyers, which include the new building with the latter, certainly, have been introduced to the country's settlements. The price for new apartments is higher than the general market price. As a result, it is expected to increase relatively less in terms of the time of resource use than of other apartments. This is a fundamental question that opens up to the question of whether it would be more reasonable to direct people who are applying for this resources in a more practical setting than to ensure the same amount of residences on the market at the same time. Besides, I can't have someone mention here again that I'm sorry that the government is involved in this approach as to where the income - stricken people can choose to live - no, the word is not right here because it's just taking people's choice. There's been a part of it about where people can live, and we all know that apartments are built where there's room for apartments. This is critical, and I assume that by this approach the government is trying to set this part of the market apart in order to prevent the development of the resources into the market as a whole. It may be enough, but only for a very short time, just for a very few years. Because as soon as these specific containers begin to buy and sell, the effects are spread to the market throughout the market. So I think it's a pretty traditional and big thing and the benefits we're going to achieve are negligible. The government estimates a total of 4 billion dollars. will be spent each year as share loans for purchases of 400 to500 apartments. That's a hundred and eighty-five million. K. per borrower or 20% of an apartment that costs an average of 40 to 6 million. K. In comparison, a fine three - room container is sold in the capital area in 30 to 40 million. K. By allowing share loans to buy on older property, and some conditions can be established, that they should not be older than 20, 30, or 40 years old, what do you know - these are apartments that are many and probably most in very good condition - these resources could be made more accessible and more efficient. More people would get to their own homes, and this would probably contribute to more property making people over the loan time. This is one of the comments I have, but there are more. One of the conditions I went over earlier that I felt that such measures needed to be met is that governments must make sure that the resources are useful to those in need. It is obvious that if they fail, they will be better off at home. The savings rate is very high, and the interest is the same as the increase in apartment prices as we have considered. In other words, people are taking these loans without knowing the advance rate. It can be higher than interest from other loans. Granted, it may be lower than what we know about the development of housing prices. part of property for people who use this tool of the ratio to the State Fund again, i.e. that the price, property, will exceed the interest of other loans. During the past ten years, the index of apartment prices in the capital area increased to a name of about 103%. If this is applied to the share loan, it is equivalent to 7.2% interest per year and no property development. If we compare 10 million. K. share loans, and equally traditional apartment loans, which bear six percent interest, pay 100,000 dollars. into the capital each month, the share loan would have been growing to 10.2 billion in the past ten years. K. but the overall interest rate is $3.14 million. That's 7 million. K. costs. Of course, it should be said that the borrower does not pay back the loan. There are advantages and defects in each method. I would have liked to see these factors get more weight in the discussion on this subject because property is something that really matters to all apartment owners, all the public. I would feel that this is especially important to those who suffer from money. Of course, this remedy means, and I have no feather over it, that there is a group of people who can buy their own property that would otherwise have been impossible. There is also a group of people who will go into the real estate sooner or later. But it is important to keep these data in perspective, and in view of the experience we have with the prices of real estate markets over the last few decades, this is not a cheap resort for people. Also, the demand for a decision is likely to be far greater than the government expects. In this scene, it is predictable that banks and savings and other credit institutions, which lend to the remaining 75%, would prioritize people according to their ability, and the worst-set groups will still be left out. It will be interesting to see how we can guarantee, if the demand becomes so, that those who are in need of this will not remain behind. I mentioned earlier that measures of this nature need to be simple, clear, and accessible. In the bill we're discussing here, a minister is given more than enough authority to decide, for example. which apartment is considered practical for size and limit of the product. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. the number of rooms based on the size and needs of the applicant's family should be taken into account. We know that the needs of families will change and that they will change during the time that we see candidates taking advantage of this strategy. Such changes have certainly been made, but this does not change the fact that it is not simple and not clear what the viewpoint will be behind a decision on these criteria. They won't necessarily find their way into this council because they're given under regulations. In this case, the minister is also receiving a very broad source of authority to provide a minimum share loans, from 20% to 30%, and from the maximum loan time of the other loans taken by the applicant to finance the real estate purchases. It's not very clear, and I would think it would be important that such a separate set of guidelines follow clear and clear rules and I would rather see them explained in the law itself than in a regulation that has not yet been completed and the Council will not take sides. It may also be added that the post of contractors that are being built up for this bill will become more uncertain in view of the fact that only the sale of new apartments based on construction workers who have made a contract with Housing and Civilization Services will be loaned. This raises certain uncertainty and raises questions about the basis for decision-making and the effect of that decision-making in this market. Why is it only allowed by some to build an apartment that will take care of it and not all of us? And how are these chosen ones? How's the bottom line? A minister to ensure that the order of such a government cooperation with certain parts of the building market will be established? Who will be built, and on what basis? Again: This is to be settled in Regulation. Then this is under the conditions of fair rules, measures where perfect equality is possible. Now it is so, as I mentioned earlier, and it has been observed many times, that the government assumes to provide loans to buy at 400 to500 apartments a year. But there is nothing in the bill on how candidates will be selected if the demand exceeds the number. Granted, more than once a year can be applied, so the picture may become clearer each time. But if we aim, e.g. with the expected need for an apartment building during the recent year, it is not likely that the demand will be done for a time. And if it is time to choose, how will a minister choose between two individuals or two families, both of whom meet the requirements and need the treatment? The question of securing an equality is, in effect, still uncertain, and I assume that there will be a search in regulations there. Again, though, we find that the key points related to this big matter are under a minister who can settle this in a Regulation without any intervention of the council. I also find interesting, and I surely rejoice, the change that has come to the council that older apartments in the country can hear about this process. As mentioned in my case more than once, I would like to see that change extending over urban areas too for various reasons. The equality of this is not great, that this is only enough for apartments in the country, but not in the capital area. On the basis of the impact that the resource can then have on the increase in real estate prices, it will affect improvements in the general support system and will cause poor people who buy and have to buy without the share loans. This marketing area has been misplaced as well. These are meditation and comments that would also have needed more weight. Then we come back to this matter with the results of the analysis, the need, the effects on real estate prices, and the effects on growth improvements or other government support options on real estate markets. We all know that the interference between the public is great. Real estate prices are being provided for a number of long - term or shorter periods of time. Then there is the impact of the resources of long - term or short - term users. In the end, and that's what I want to say about this case when it comes to the Senate as a final payment, I think it's a very good goal. But there are many questions for the implementation as set down here. This intervention in the market that is being established by law, as well as by a highly controlled legal authority, is, as I have considered, not necessarily as if I would have wanted to see it. But my associates and I, in Relations, are confident that governments will use their time to review the case, listen to the most logical criticism ever made, and to many places. There are a lot of people who support this situation because the goal is good. This social strategy is good, and it's important. But knots can be arranged so that only the market can have a positive effect. However, they must also look into and analyze the minute details we have, listen to the criticism and adapt them. I have full faith that it will be done. I can only imagine that the mind of everyone would be able not only to look well at first but also to benefit real people who would otherwise be unable to settle down as owners of real estate markets and achieve this goal without having a negative impact on the whole market. We have the opportunity to wait and hope to see governments use their time well. During our restoration, we will support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Frirdik's son, Friðriksson, for her excellent speech and interesting comments on many things. I would like to discuss some points from the talk with the senator, but I will try to focus on a few things. But first, values between property and housing. I imagine that at least those who go to the resort will be at least one. In some ways, if we can say so, we might come into the thinking of the thought, we might see more of the security that the resource creates for them and the property fraud. when people actually begin to see that some form of property is passing on to them. I'd like to hear the senator's speculation, whether she agrees that there might be two conflicts. I believe that housing security may be what the government should secure, but property is not necessarily their task but is the social part of the strategy, as the senator rightly introduced, much more important. As a result, I want to bring in only a new one or use a home. It is likely to be on these two viewpoints, i.e. new housing usually requires less maintenance. In this way the owner can focus more on property, we can imagine, rather than on maintaining his home. Hence, the view may be that it is equally important for a person living in his home to be new and stable, and he will then be able to concentrate on the factors that the senator spoke about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. You see, this is an interesting subject. Not without reason the saying is boring: It is expensive to be poor. This is not to say that when you have no money, it is hard and bad. That is just how we know it, and in some periods of our lives, we experience it very many of our own. I just agree with what. A senator's concern is that it's a matter of security and social resources to help the income plague bring their own roof over their heads, which they might not possibly be able to do without or very likely. But I think it's possible to do both. Well, that's kind of the point. It would have been possible with a different approach to contribute somehow to the fact that the creations came primarily to them. That's kind of the approach. For this reason, it is not appropriate to have a new housing with a lower need and so on. The point is, this small maintenance need for new housing is calculated into the price. Hence, it is often more expensive. That's what I'm talking about. Then there are the poor people in this, who are naturally not smiling, kind of paying for it twice. Besides, we know this too - and I smile at one another because of it. A senator has had this conversation before outside the council hall - that it is often good to invest, if you have little between your hands, in an apartment that needs maintenance. Some can be left alone for a while. There is something we all know that we can do in a much less cheap way than contractors do. So I would rather think of the point of promoting logical support in the other direction, that the conditions should be extended to include older apartments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. Maybe I'll pick up the ball for the rest of the game and the new one or the used apartments. Indeed, there is something that might be considered in the very first revision of the Law. I can say that with the senator. Then, according to the senator's view that this was a relatively expensive resource and, in that respect, would be the owner's, in effect, letting the State have some of its benefits by the State's growth of things in accordance with the rise in property prices. But it's not like that, then. A senator, that the fruitage of part of the borrower's property is in part under the cover of the government's property? That. Because the borrower does not have to worry about the 20% members of the government's ownership, in fact, as the senator has talked about, a possession in its hide. In some ways, therefore, it may be said that a certain degree of genius is involved. Yes, he will eventually need to be able to share the benefits with the State, but he probably would not have made it otherwise. In fact, there is always some contrary reasoning. Finally, Mr. President, regarding the effects on the market, the senator talked only about: Is the senator feeling as I do, that there is likely to be a major impact on the market, not as much? In that case, especially because we have this revision principle in our possession early.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u63	Mr. President. Hv. A senator gives a pretty clear point that the rest of the apartment is the building of the property of the one who enjoys the resources, the property that will exist under the cover of this social assistance. It's just the perfect dot. [[The president calls.]] [[Mr President's waiting for some respect, I'm sure it was an accident.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Thank you, President. What I may have been primarily in mind, and tried to come up with my answer to the storyteller of the case earlier today, is quantifiable analysis, and what I came into my speech also, showing that this is so much. The increase has been so great that it might be normal to build a roof. That's what I'm wondering. It doesn't necessarily have to be that regardless of any increase in real estate prices or apartment prices, it goes back to the state fund so that I would like to see some kind of interstate there. The senator asked about the revision. I've been watching the conversation where people are talking about it and back why the law comes in there, why it's all become 2023 and not 2030. Nor do I realize that exactly, that doesn't come out clearly, most likely because it somehow broke through. The welfare committee what to review exactly, who has the ball. But since it's in here, I can say that I would feel very important that exactly what it is used to do through those factors very well. It is very important that the data are well checked and that we are built on a foundation. In that respect, I feel better about having it in there, although, of course, it would have been possible to go to these things without necessarily binding the revision principle into law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u64	Mr. President. Indeed, there is much to do to make Iceland's housing market better than it is today. Here we have some resources to make it easier for people with low incomes to have a roof over their heads. This is a natural reaction because the rent market has always been something that people need to avoid because it is very difficult to be on, both on housing security and on payment paid for living in a rented home. This is it, all right, while we need to build a healthy tenet. Still, when this matter is being discussed, it's a little bit dramatic that there's some discrepancy between what they say they're going to do with the bill and what they're going to do with the bill. We have now seen in the summer that measures that have been carried out since the year 2000 have been taken and have not reached their intended flight. It would be unfortunate if it were one of them. So I'd like to mention here an example of something that has been taken from the bill in the change of the part, and that is the condition of the provision of special savings, one of the reasons why people are being brought into this situation. It is explained in various comments, and I'm taking it down here in the review of the BSRB, how different this is in view of the fact that on the one hand it is intended to cover a group of first buyers who can have a good payment capacity but who have found it difficult to cover their own budget, whereas, on the other hand, there is a low income of people who often find it difficult to cover pay and there's probably nothing with special property savings, there is no stipulation of 2% of their pay. This suggests that the Ministry was thinking of another group, while the bill is supposed to cover, and there are still others. Another example is that of still incarcerated, that a borrower has to pass a payment rate of 75% at some financial agency. But these days, it's the maximum of the loans of pensions, e.g. 70%. So here it is likely to be controlling those who are going to a bank that offers higher loans, especially for the first buyers, but these loans often have less adverse conditions than 70% of the primary loans. So to gain the advantage of these resources, people must first pass an unfavourable payment rate that they may get if the limit was reached. Same thing about pension loans, 70%. Then it comes out a little strange, when you read this case with some of the reviews, how cooperation with key users seems to have been arranged or otherwise. For example, in the bill when it appears here at the council that there should be some clear pay limits, despite the fact that the Common Union was at the table in a working group on housing and insurance from where this case is born. Now it seems to me that people have not been on the move to evaluate the time given how these income limits are affected. But it may be helpful to point to a talk. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, who spoke to the opinion of a second lower part of the health committee, which pointed out that the balance of the income was likely to mean that this could become such an intermediate resort, could not reach those who could be most in need of treatment. It should also be viewed as a statement by the European Union, which suggests that support is lacking for the proposal of a greater proportion of welfare committees to recommend that 20% of loans have to be outside the capital area. On the contrary, the European Union is not some hater of the country. This is the relationship of all Icelandic rural society, which suggests that it would be normal to have this ratio flexible. The relationship is, I think, to agree that the structure takes place all over the country, but it just points out that it would be more natural to let the resources adapt to the need for housing, including the Based on housing programmes performed by the rural community. This, in turn, brings me to what seemed to be the most strange thing in this matter throughout the council. That is the rotation taken between two hearings here last week when the Ministry of finance sent in a review of the matter. It says that the impact of the Ministry of Social Affairs is inadequate. This is a four-page review, if I recall correctly, in which the Ministry of Financial Affairs is very harsh about the work the Department of Social Affairs has turned into this council. I don't remember seeing many guesses here at the council that the Ministry is on the basis of Congress in formal reviews to members of the Parliament. The landing, perhaps an excellent landing when two parties are at issue, was locked up in a room for two days, and then gave a joint report on the welfare committee with suggestions that both departments could accept. But this does not give you confidence on the basis of the matter. This should rather cause us to wonder if this work is too fast and not careful enough to be done. And what about the few changes the greater part of the social committee suggests in the case, e.g. to increase the estimated amount of donations from 4 billion to 5 by creating some kind of uncertainty range to 1 billion per year, which should be produced in some layer of reserve and should serve some purpose. It is not clear from the words of those who have measured this majority list, exactly what that purpose is, but in committees it says that the purpose is to support the need for additional financial contributions in the future. I don't know if this will provide enough clear guidance on the project in due course. As I said in the beginning, the goal is good. However, as often happens in the last few weeks and months, you may find that the feeling that the project may not be completely up to ten when it comes because it is not based on enough analysis. In this regard, we do not listen well enough to the advice given in reviews. We're just going to go for a ride, and we're going to blow this whole thing out. Whether this is the time to show, but it would be boring if people in need of such provisions could not benefit because this has not been enough for work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u65	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in housing laws, share loans. When this bill first appeared, I rejoiced greatly. I thought to myself, " Finally, we are dealing with people who need housing. ' I thought, " This is a good thing that could be supported. ' Sadly, though, I still get bad taste in my mouth because of a flaw in a language. The tremendous short - term treatment of this case makes the matter work badly. There's a lot to do. I was wondering if I should be on the committee's opinion in advance, to accept it in advance, because I wanted to. But I had to think carefully and carefully, making sure that I had to put so many ahead of time that it would not be possible for me to get into this blessed committee party. What's so strange about this bill? First, it reaches only new apartments, except in a country where old apartments can be fixed up, taken through. Then that's okay. But we must also ask ourselves, " What does it mean in the capital area that we are only lending to new apartments? ' I know it from my own experience after having had both an old and a new apartment and, of exactly the same size, that the price difference between them is huge, it can be 20 to 4.0%. If you plan to enter this system, you have to put in 5% of your money, and then you probably get 20% share loans in most cases, you can get up to 30% share loans. What I'm afraid of is not even the price of an old and new apartment if this person just bought himself, if he could, an old apartment rather than a new one. And what does that tell us too? It goes on to say that if you're buying an old apartment that costs 40 million, it would have been as a new apartment that cost 55 to 60 million. Then there's a huge debt, a much greater debt that the person needs to make. Then there's something else that's kind of the weirdest. At the beginning of the bill, 25 - year - old credit rates were expected on the share loan, but it has gone down to 10 years, with an extension of five years, to 15 years, and then an extension of 15 years to 20 years and even five more, from 20 to 25 years. A simple system? No. Yet, it was strictly necessary to keep the system as simple as possible. It was the message that students in Britain and Scotland received: Make the system as simple as possible. But the more you look at the bill, the more you see how complicated the system is. But for whom is this system? Which group is most likely to enter the system? Sadly, this system is not for a large group of disability, nor is it for a fixed group of people on the minimum wage scale. That's a complete fact. Consider an example in the bill itself. An apartment of 70 m 2 is expected to be purchased in 35 million. K. What's really best about it is that this is an apartment for two adults and two children, so it's a narrow way to settle but leave it alone. That's 35 million. K. An apartment and in order to make a fair living under loans, it is suggested that the supplier's income should be 525,916k. After deduction, operating costs of housing, and loans are set aside for 206,796k, what these individuals need in order to be able to repay the loan. But how would these individuals account for the worst outcome, if interest ran high? It has been shown that when someone started waxing, the loans are raised. It is stated by the Homing House and Mobilization Institute, which calculated that in 2016 the rate of payment was 130,000. 21 million. K. Indiscriminate loan with variable interest rates of 7.2% - 70% loan rate of 30 million K. An apartment, think about it - but she was down to 80,000 bucks. versus 3.5% interest. That's a $50,000 bill. If a borrower in this situation got into the worst possible situation, I'll just say, "God help him." The example in the bill assumes over 525,000 dollars. for provisional revenues. Suppose an invalid is going to try to enter this system, a person with a $20,000 bill. We can forget that. He can't stand a chance. First of all, he would not receive payment, and second, it is a requirement not to cover 40% of the provisions we buy on the flat. So he doesn't have a chance, and this applies to those of the lowest wage, they don't get into this system. It has to be said exactly as it is that this system is a bit strange. We'd have to and should have, if we were to create a simple system, which would have been a whole new system from scratch, discussing how we can build up our systems and take out the loans and everything that is relevant to shopping from a consumer index, so insurance would not be there. Thus, we would be in the same position that most of our neighboring nations were to know the interest from start to finish. There would be low growth, and there would be no need to worry about inflation. But we do not live by the luxury, and according to this, it is not on the subject of death. We need to realize that it was a large group of people who lost their apartments in the collapse. And what is their situation today? As we have seen in the speeches today, it's a dissociation form. If you're on a register, you can't access this system, you're on a black list, you're being hunted. This is a group that, if we think about it, can be in a rented market and rent for 80 to 90% of their provisions and then needs to go to the relief agencies to get food, to survive. At the same time, the bill shows that this system cannot be loaned unless it is 25 years old. Resurrected loan to 40 years has been called a poison, and I know a number of other names, but what has been the result for 40 years? This has allowed them to buy an apartment with minimal financial burden. Possession will be much smaller than safety, the security of managing the payment burden, and the fact that it will not completely outdo just some growth change. If you borrow in secret, you'll know about the interest, and if inflation starts, it'll go to the back of the loan. The proportion of possessions may decrease, but the amount of payment does not increase in proportion. One of the things I noticed in this bill is a little strange, and it came up with a question in the Committee about this, and I asked that too. Sadly, as we know, divorce is widespread. When asked how the situation would be, the answer was that one side controls the apartment. But what will happen to the other one? He falls out of the system. He's turned out to be a god and a sear. I'm afraid this means it'll be a struggle to keep the apartment. What will result if children are in the home? Neither party will be able to get out of the system and survive. What would have been a simple thing to do about this is that the person who went out has the opportunity to go back into the system. These people are inside the system because they are in a position not to enter any other system. This is a very simple and incomprehensible matter that it could not have been done. In itself, it would not have taken anything to give just that opportunity and not change anything about the whole matter. Another thing I don't like about this is the demand to reduce interest rates by 1 billion. Perhaps the explanation is that they are being lowered by the highest income. What, though, is the cost of growth? I'd like to know. When I wasn't at a council and was paying off an apartment, you didn't have to be a lot of earner hair so that you'd have to be out of interest. I also went through the regulations. It's a picture of the Regulation, and what does it tell us? What's going on there? This is amazing because the minister receives amazingly broad sources. He can do all kinds of transfers, and he can give annuity. Also, there are circumstances where anxiety is concerned. In order to get into this system, as I've come before, you have to pass the credit ratings from a loan agency, which is easier said than done. Then the individual needs to be informed about his or her interests and prospects. A future? You may put on glasses of optimism, perhaps in pessimism, or just going to a prophetess. I don't know how they're gonna do this. I don't understand things like that because, of course, at the time he's applying for something that matters. The prospect has been inserted by cutting down the loan period from 25 years to 10, and then it can be extended to 15, as well as 20 and 25. [[Up front.]] It has been inserted, and that is how the future will be. It's also a question of the price of the apartment, which I see here in the Regulation. There is an individual apartment at 30 million, a two - room apartment at 35 million, a three - room apartment at 38 million, four - room apartments at 42 million, and five - room rooms, and plus apartments at 50 million. This is the peak of optimism. I think it would have been very important to check the real estate market unless it's intended for someone to build this apartment on a very cheap property, somewhere on the side of the town line, and without any profits. But this is not realistic. It's not good to be in a mess Another factor is that the person can own up to 1.5% of the apartment's prices in money. We need to realize that there is a high level of labour costs, the cost of transportation. It is expensive to move to a new apartment, and there is a need to make sure that people like them. This shouldn't be too narrow. Then, we read: "A car of great size, it's a car, a car, a car, a car, a car, a car, a car, a car, a I'll put a question mark on it. What is a moderate car? Notes have been made by the microcollea union, pointing out that the loan time of other loans on the bet may be over 30 to 40 years, and the share loans may need longer. It's too short. It's too tight. I would have liked to have 25 years, and then I could have reviewed the situation. Given what has come from the British labor movement, there was no need for such notice. People want to get out of this system as soon as possible because they are far better suited to enter another system. It may be more suitable for various aspects; work, school, all kinds of things. We need to realize that we are telling people that they are fixed in certain places that people can buy, but we do not know where these places are. We have no idea where this is going to be today, where these apartments will be built, or whether they'll be over their heads, because we're going to know how to build this new exceedingly effective apartment on this price basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk and discussion on the subject, which is his natural view, that all of this is impossible and difficult to get into. Of course, it is not for anyone buying property, no matter where it comes from. There is always a need for payment, and we know that it can be a little difficult. But this is where they come to meet people. The debt is a substitute for its own money that the buyer may otherwise have to own. Once again, the misunderstanding shows that it's only ten years. We've heard that a lot today. The new proposal says: In the past 10 years or more, the mortgage may be reimbursed in the sale of an apartment building. However, it is permitted to extend the loan period by five years, although a loan will never be given to a total of more than 25 years. The requirement for the extension of loan time is that borrowers have sought advice from the Housing and Managing Agency on the level of reimbursement and the extension of the loan prior to the end of the loan. It's pretty clear. It's the only condition. And all the long speeches that have been held today that it is not allowed, that it is dependent on just the lender's whims, just not on evidence. So I want to ask you again, is it not clear enough that this is 25 years? I may be better able to get into it in the second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's the Signý Kristjánsdóttir for the question. She says that it will be authorized to extend the loan. If we had thought it realistic, maybe half of the loan time, twelve and a half years, would have been done just one revision. Then the borrower could have been allowed to move on. Just something that simple. But this is a reassessment after 10, 15, 20, 25 years. People have to go through these four times. We know that's stressful. It can be quite difficult for people to go through such a process. It's confusing the system quite amazingly. It would be much simpler to say: The loan is until 25 years, but everyone sits down and examines the situation after perhaps twelve and a half years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u68	A respectable president. I appreciate those answers. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that in Britain there is an experience where people wanted to take the options sooner than they were supposed to. I think 10 years is a good time. I'd like to ask them what. A member of Parliament: What average time does he believe it is realistic to plan ahead? Isn't it like 10 years or 12 and a half years? Does it really matter that there is time for the matter to be reviewed? Second of all, this is a suitable apartment. What does that count? So a senator has the ability to build a practical apartment throughout the country, both in the capital area and in the country? Much has been called after this strategy. Is that not an incentive for contractors to build suitable apartments? It has certainly been tried, at least in Britain, that it was possible to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I answer right away that I would be overly pleased with that and would accept my 25 - year - old loan and that I would sit down to look at things once after 12 - and - a - half - 13 years. We have to figure out that in order to build cheap apartments - I've come to build and learn construction, so I know we could do a lot of things. I saw that in Sweden, the containers were being built, each container was placed on top of the other. I'm sure it's very practical. And we know that building an apartment where there is no need, not a garage, and the parking lot is also practical. Things can be done in a cheap way. An animal's entrance can be made inexpensive, making everything as cheap as possible. What does that mean? That means that when people have it better, they want to get out of the system because they might want a garage, maybe they want to live somewhere else, and have things better. He's got the nerve to get out of this. We have to give people the opportunity to buy cheap apartments. But we also have to figure it out, I say it myself, and I think we can all say that you don't want to be in the system forever. This is exactly like becoming an invalid. You don't want to be an invalid. You want to get out of that system. I believe that the motivation for people to go out will be enough. That's why we don't have to set up all these fences. To prevent misunderstandings, I will support this matter. It's going to be as hard for me to support it as it is for my living, but I'll do it because I'm on it. But it's just all these details. [[The president calls.]] I like it simple, so simple, that there will be no problem for those who want to enter this system to get into it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u70	Madam President. Trying to argue more about the borrowed time is likely to be unstable, but I think I am forced to do so. The mention of the largest section makes it clear that after ten years from loan, houses should be reimbursed. It says, in fact, that the loan period is extended for about five years at a time, three times a day, which is done on the basis of applications, and that will be covered by property, loan capacity, and reimbursement options. In other words, it can be understood that a rich will means to be extended. However, if the representatives of this committee's view were to do so indiscriminately, the borrower's rights would have had to be replaced by the number of the number of individuals who did not have to be lenient, i.e. Permission to extend. Of course, that will not be clearer. Otherwise, you have been waiting quite a long time to talk about such matters, since in the government covenant it directly states that it is one of the priorities of the government. Now a minister has been carrying this bill in his stomach longer than an elephant's cane, which is about two years' time, so it is in itself time. So we in the United States are happy because housing has always been our main focus. We believe security, regardless of economic and social status, is essential to equal opportunities and general welfare. It is not a safe home that is built up and carried with concrete, carrying iron, or building, but is largely a building around a home and one of the items necessary for families, in whatever form they are, to enjoy security and to enjoy a healthy home life. I'm not going to go through the details of this bill thoroughly. It's got a why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir conducted with a thorough committee visit and a wonderful speech. But I'm going to discuss only housing because it has been taking too long, and the measures of the local government have just not been successful enough. Young, wealthy people have found it difficult to get into the housing market and have had to worry about the insured predators'tenets. There is a special concern about how many family members are in that situation. They have often been affected, forced to move, tearing their children apart from school districts, adding stress to children, and helping them not only in difficult development. Also, there has been not enough social apartments for too many rural communities for the least of them, and that's a thing that needs to be handled too. In some ways, each community has to meet the minimum social limit. Hence, the population with the lowest income in our community, but not enough to be assigned social housing, has had a pretty difficult time at this market. These people were largely abandoned by the government when the workers'building system was laid down by the then government of the move-and-go-go-go. There is not even enough rent or suitable apartments for people with medium income, much less those in the weakest position. It is clear, then, that we have an enormous task ahead of us. Despite a very good step in the construction of a generalised cab spray, which has been done in cooperation with employment and rural movements, the steps have been far too short and far too few. Hence, we rejoice, of course, every step taken in the direction of a healthy housing market and every opportunity to discuss this most important interest here at the council. Because it is the word, as I said earlier, long time to take decisive action to help needy people buy their first house or rent or at least to ensure better housing security for vulnerable groups It is, however, Mrs. President that it is rather embarrassing to put this measures in the suit of specific measures for Covid. It is not the new level of household crisis and is not the result of the epidemic, and it was long before the economic hardships we are trying to cope with. But I'm guessing that there's more of a way of putting this in to direct our eyes from the government's delay in these matters. It's taken less than three years. That's about it. Two years since the Conspiracy proposed a housing plan. That was even. did to encourage Ministers to cooperate with her, or at least pushing him to finish up. We produced some resources, and one of them was so - called starting loans into the Norwegian role model. They are especially to assist young people and people in sensitive groups. This strategy has been used by Norwegians to address the problems of those who are taking their first step in a housing market and are not able to obtain resources from a public loan market. But they are also particularly aimed at ensuring the safety of much more targeted and vulnerable groups in the market, and it is very important that we, when we are giving a lot of money to these types of resources, focus on the right group. We also proposed a major buildup of tenants in the coming years so that renters could get their way into a market that would be driven by nonprofit views. We suggested that rural society be placed on a social basis with the aim of providing people throughout the country but also the burden of rural society. We recommended that housing and growth be increased in accordance with pay development and decline be reduced, and finally the building order would be simplified and consistent with the regulations as they are elsewhere in the Northern countries. It's sort of amazing, Mrs. President, in an environment where we are more and more involved in solutions that are going to be used ready units, when either you can't, or it's 205/25% more expensive, to get them here, because the value of doors is different and the altitude is different than the demands of other countries, it's completely stupid. But let's take a look at a minister's proposal for the stock loans. They are setting an English example. A minister went around the continents, since it was Norwegian loans and then Swiss loans and so Finnish, but it seems to have ended up in English loans. Of course, the bill is designed to make it easier for young people who have less money to buy in an apartment, providing share loans, as they call them, to break down payment. It's part of so-called biographies agreements, and it's very important that we do it here, and I take it up to the point of lateness, and despite the fact that there's something wrong with the bill, I think it's important to settle the matter. But this is not a covid case at all, as it has been put on the weather. This is done only to cover the future. In the case of government intervention and control of housing markets of this magnitude, this can simply have great consequences. Therefore, it is particularly important that the whole process of law be very careful. We in the United States, as I said before, support the bill, but we think it's just not working well enough. There is far too much foggy exports, and ministers are given too much authority to implement conditions and provisions and other ecstatic factors that would best be added to the bill itself. Actually, Madam President, it is becoming an amazing burden for the Generals to yield to their decision - making authority in a matter of law that is all too simple and that is placed in the hands of the Minister, which is the subject of another discussion. It's just hard to figure out how the loan will be done because there are so many things that are so vague about this. An example of how blurred this whole thing is is that a committee, or a prospective Housing and Human Invasion Agency, should be based on a Minister's Regulation and determine what constitutes a suitable apartment without a definition of it being written into a paper in the bill to a significant degree. I ask them, Madam President: Is this supposed to be a practical apartment for the family who would like it? Is it practical for government funds? Will there be a specific assessment of the construction of the house, the quality of materials and other materials for the maintenance of the loan time? Does it have to be centralized so that people don't have to have a car? There's a lot of these things that you can't put into the hands of a Housekeeping and Engineer. This would have to be very clear in the bill. The candidates' requirements, if applications are beyond the financial resources at any given time, are far too vague. I don't know what it can offer. It can offer a race of all kinds and strange arrangements. I also have my doubts about the fact that there's such a high share, 20% of the loans, of the country's population. Actually, it's quite remarkable that a word is used. Where does the land start, and where does it end? Acdér, Smokeytown, Selephos, an area of enormous growth, which still represents worth still considerably higher than the cost of construction, construction, or capital? And if that's a capital, I can point to Akureyri. In many respects, the market is normal. There, a contractor may have something for which to build and sell an apartment that cannot be sold in smaller places. It would have been much better to talk about areas where market failure is or growth area and cold areas or something like that rather than just talking about the country. Then I agree with those who are critical of the bill's income criteria and have good reason to do so. We also feel that it is unacceptable that the cost of the resource is financed by a billion interest rate per year without any consequence of the decline in the system itself or other borrowers. It would have been much easier to attack in the analysis of government housing support and reexamination of the growth reform system so that it will serve its goal better and actually support the groups needed. Despite all of this and much of it, which has been presented in the talks of many members of the Parliament, we will in the United States support the bill because it is important to fight for and support any action involved in improving the security of people. I think the question in this hall is much more likely to be the support of all members of the board, but it is also the subject of another discussion. Just in the end, Madam President, about the change in the rest of the section. There's some interesting things in there. I had mentioned this in a country and how it is used without further definition. There, in the country region, it is authorized to purchase older buildings for renovations. I think it's good if it's mainly thought of in those areas where there's no financial pay for anyone building a new apartment because less money is available than the cost of making it. But since this is not defined more closely, you ask yourself, " What lives under it? ' Can we expect that in our neighboring communities, where there is a blowup, I'll name Smokesville, Aklin or Selphos, a doll for some of those who own an old apartment, old apartment, and then skim over these assets and sell to these resources? I think that's a reason to talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u71	President. The loans we deal with are very important and part of the biographer agreements, as we have seen many times today. We in the media will support the opinion of more things, but in advance, and only in this speech I would like to make an account of them. Many things are unclear, e.g. is a minister's state of law in general in this case. It was noted in the Committee that it might be difficult to believe that it would be difficult to tie up all the laws that must be followed in the Law text itself and therefore it would be entrusted to the minister of this Regulation. The use of thought is also very vague. Speaking of an economic setting is one thing that should have been very clear in the law text instead of setting regulations. Similarly, there are borrowers who may lead to their failure to apply these loans. We've received a suggestion for the Minister's Regulation. There is a very long chapter that deals with the conditions that lenders must meet, but that is less about the conditions of those who lend the loans, at least so far. It may well be improved, but the list of conditions that lenders must meet is quite long and can work in a way that does not apply. There is much that lacks information on the need for such housing, rather than the facilities that would meet the income group involved. I'm pretty sure there's more to it than this. I requested information on this in order to evaluate some of the early points we had in mind for the legal process, and we received a fine report on the welfare committee then known as the Substitute Fund on the need for an apartment that we have actually received a presentation on before, but it was good for us to review it now, especially in view of the uncertainty we face. I'm sure if this report was written today, the section on uncertainty would be much longer than it is in the current report, so maybe it is advisable to update it. The report suggests that young people live in parents' homes longer than they prefer, since apartments have been missing that is suitable for this age group. I note that the report is performed specifically on the capital and on the other hand, on the other hand, in terms of national areas, and on different kinds of effects on the various age groups ranging from young to older age groups, not to be looked at the amount of money people earn during each lifetime. Here, too, it is good to say that the loans are ten years old and not 25 years old, anyway, I understand that even borrowers are reassigned as effective counselors. It's one of the terms I find blurred. It is unclear what you mean when you talk about effective counseling. I wondered what "unusual counseling" is in this regard. The bill obligates 20% of share loans to the country. The question, then, is, What do you call the country? Some people have come to see if Akureyri is inhabited. And if I look back in my district, is the Redfarve of the land, or the Eglish places, or is it fun? It's a bit vague, and I would have even chosen to set the cut, so it was called either the capital area or everything that's outside the capital area. Various people have criticized that it is not appropriate to keep the revenue criteria in the bill and can be read in the heading VR, with permission of the president: In view of the population of VR between 25 and 30 years of age, it means that more than 70% of them are unable to use this method for their own housing. The overall terms of the loans numbered in six sections compare to 29rds. b, will allow the loans to be granted only to those needing them, while a legal income control target precludes many who still need the resources, especially when considering the high prices of real estate markets, as it has been, even when prices of other markets have taken place, or [it] have been reduced. At that time, a legal takeover target is called on for increased administrations, a minister's permission to provide aheading, annual review, and other factors leading to the inefficiency of the resource. I'm gonna let myself agree with this. And since we received this review, which I thought was good or at least worth a closer look, I requested on the welfare committee that we be affected by the rise in income limits in the terms of share loans. So the Commission sent a memo. It says, by permission of the President: ILS, the assessment of the potential demand for share loans and the supply of suitable apartments relative to certain likely criteria in the fall of 2019.◯ In this regard it is very important to keep in mind the date or time period produced by this report, i.e. In the fall of 2019. ▪ The assessment's general status was that, on the basis of the limits laid down, demand share loans would probably be considerably greater than the potential supply at a suitable housing, which will depend on the conditions for such loans. And it continues: A higher income limit in terms of sharing loans would result in more individuals and homes meeting the requirements for such loans and thus a demand for more people. As a result of the period of building houses, the average duration of the cost of an economic home area is not changing for a short period of time, or an average of 18◯24 months. The estimate of the supply was considerably lower than the likely demand, the amount of share loans. According to the assessment, the provision of viable apartments may be between 340 and 710 apartments per year. Assessments of the likely demand revealed that it could be between 3,800,8600 individuals and families. Thus, it is clear that the supply is a limited factor in the size of the loans. It is therefore not expected that the share loans will increase for a short or intermediate time if there would be an increase in income limits. At an increase in income markets, more people with more means of payment would agree with the conditions. However, depending on individual circumstances, such as saving ability, current payment rates, and market expectations, it is uncertain whether a larger person would choose to take share loans to the same degree as they did. The increase in income markets would lead to more individuals and families biting over the same low, variable size, and likely a higher price for each category, which is stated in the Minister's Regulation. The banks would also be more likely to choose more money - raise individuals than those which are less efficient at providing basic loans on the normal risk basis. This would lead to cut-offs for individuals in the lower part of the revenue distribution. However, an increase in income markets may increase the building of the builder's incentive to build an economic home due to increased demand. I'm gonna repeat this: The increase in revenue could increase the building of a builder's incentive to build an economic home due to increased demand. The effect, however, is longer to appear. So we still agree to this bill, we still have a group who lost everything in the bank crash and they don't get paid, don't pass credit, etc. Therefore, it is a matter of note, and now I refer my words specifically to the Homing Minister, that it is probably only necessary to correct the regulation of credit and payment. I'm pointing this here at the end because if there's a real will to meet this group of people who are very crowded and have waited very long, then it's not easy for a minister to do it with just one pencil. That's what I'd like to say, the Central Party supports the case with the reasons I've been over here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u72	A respectable president. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in housing laws, share loans. That's what they've been talking about for six hours, a respectable president. There's not much more to say. I find it remarkable that there are many people here who say bad things about the bill, talk it down, and then they're going to vote with it afterwards. I'm gonna talk nice about it, and I'm gonna vote with it later. There's a lot of things, and almost everything, very good on the bill of mine. It is such a bill, which is the independence policy of the Independence Party, helping young people who have difficulty obtaining their own housing. It showed the road in the bill, it seems to me. In the present financial environment, where growth is incredibly low, the pay has been canceled, and the land will rise from sea to sea, this is a good introduction to the independence policy of the Independence Party in housing. A respectable president. I've practically said everything I was going to say here, and I don't think I'm going to be the eighth senator to repeat what everyone else has said. I hope the bill is approved and it's gonna be good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u73	A respectable president. I would like to address this discussion at the end of this discussion on this matter, which is very important, on sharing loans now available to the needy when the bill is approved. It is long time to face the needy who want to have their own housing and possessions in it for the future, but they have not had the opportunity to contribute the money that has been needed to finance their own housing. As we know, paying rent on an open tenet may be even more expensive than paying off loans and making a living. There should be a choice in people, whether they have a low income or a fortune, whether they want renting or having their own home. This is done in a very good way and requires matters that are being carried out in the days in which we are living, which are certainly hard, and especially for the needy. They can buy their first apartment with the support available there, i.e. that the state finances a section of the apartment building, and that there is a chance for safety. I spoke here, when I was at the highest. The minister brought this matter, and was worried that this remedy would not go out into the country. We, of course, who live in the region and know that there is a very great amount of lymph in the region here to the capital area, and we know that there is a need for practical housing on the entire area of the country that is running low in income. I was here talking about the fact that if there were not to be any changes in the country that there would be a secure object in this very well-being, I would worry that even more people would be sucked here, as these measures were best offered. Of course, there are many places around the country where economic facilities are not being built. And which comes first, the egg, or the chicken? It is often asked. I believe that it will strengthen the very landscape that there are also apartments and housing for low income so that people can continue to live in the place where they want to live. So I am very pleased with the changes made on the bill during the services of a health committee, and I take these especially out of parentheses. I find it very special when the members of the United States and the head of the welfare committee are deeply concerned that this has such an impact and a small market on the country. I would have thought that everyone should be glad to be part of an invitation to small - paying people all over the country, whether they live in the Red Sea or in the Twelfth, to be participants in making suitable housing and to have their first apartment at the ideals available there. I believe that, as it is implemented, it is guaranteed that there are at least 20% per year available for construction in the country. If not, it will flow into areas where the demand is greater. There are at least 20% available and may be more dependent on the demand in any country. In many parts of the country, older apartment buildings and other facilities are being breached, and the housing does not have to be new buildings but can restore housing to meet the requirements of the Homemaking and Engineing Agency. I believe that everyone must be very pleased with how this case has developed, and it's something that's been waiting for a very long time. The case is part of a biographer contract, as we know, and hopefully we'll all agree that it's a long time, and we're all supposed to be happy that this bill is for the treatment of the council and that we're here for the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u74	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir so much for her review and speech. Of course, as a single person, I rejoice that resources that are available for the population so that they can buy apartments and help with the wealthy so that they can buy their own camps throughout the country can be available to all the people of the country. What I'm slightly worried about is that in changing things, there's no distinction between places like Redfarves and e.g. Selphoss, like a dog. A senator mentioned. The region is spoken of on the one side and then throughout the entire area outside the capital area, when it comes to renewing the older apartments. I'd have thought we'd have to be especially supportive of cold areas, areas where no housing has been built. It has just been said that this is also for building apartments in cold areas. But I think we can agree on that, we can. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, to the area around the capital area, Selephos, Smokestown, as well as, for example. Akureyri can hardly be considered an area where property has not been built, as is experienced in areas that are classified as cold areas. Therefore, I feel that if the inhabitants of the Redfarves are specifically being supported in construction of the country, they are at the same level as those in those areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u75	A respectable president. I think it's unnecessary concern. Senator. The options are here to stay, and we need to see just how the experience will help us determine whether areas of market value and construction costs need to be considered specifically. If we discover that the areas we can call cold areas are still beyond us, we need to take special action. I'm not gonna give myself in advance to be. But if it is, we have to deal with it. I think that's unnecessary in advance, because of course it's a plan like everybody else, there's always an experience in how it works. Maybe it'll be quite different between years. A certain area may be saturated, and there will be flexibility and mobility between areas. But I don't think it can be judged in advance, not before we've seen it at least. two to three years of the process and how it will develop.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u76	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. That's exactly what can be convenient, i.e. has been reduced. It was due to be revised after ten years, but now it has been reduced to July 1, 1923, so after two and a half years it should be revised. This may be in order to see if any contractors may still have chosen to build apartments and housings that do not exceed market prices. Sadly, it is now that market prices in these cold areas do not depend on construction costs. And when it comes to making a decision that the entire area outside the capital area submits to the same laws, it is a relatively simple account example for those who know the Law on supply and demand. And the law of performing a man would be a developer at least not losing it. I think we must understand the motivation being made for contractors, that they are more likely to build buildings in areas where they are likely to receive something for their turn than in cold areas. But let us hope that there are many merciful communities somewhere and that they are ready to build buildings as well in cold areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u77	A respectable president. I don't think we should rely on any kind of merciful Samaritan to do the work that lies ahead. I suppose that everyone, whether being reimbursed or not, is being paid for their work and is expected to be practical, which could be the case in many parts of the country. I think people see an opportunity to do that. They know that homes are being purchased at all costs but real value, so they can take it through and sell it. Clearly, construction contractors do not go into action if they do not see their interests in it. I think in the bill there's a chance of developing the country and building it up for underpayers, that it will have its first apartment. I think this might be a great incentive for people to settle down in these places and strengthen over the market price at a place there. Sadly, it has been too low and far too valuable. I think it is also urgent to raise prices in the rural areas from what it is to be reasonably real, although it will never be the same as in the expanding areas, as in the capital area. But let's see how this works. I believe in the options, and if we have to revise it, as expected in the bill, we will. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u78	A respectable president. I bring here a bill to legalize the package travel laws and co-ordinated travel options, No. 95/2018, with subsequent changes, extensions, from the job committee. The bill reads: - Uh-huh. - The following changes will be made on temporary regulations in the law: a. Instead of the date ▪31. July 1, 2020, 1st. 2 mg. comes on September 30th, 2020. b. Endnote 2 mg. He'll be gone. c. Instead of the date 6:1. September 1, 2020, 1st. 10 mg. comes on November 1, 2020. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ I'm just going to go over the report, a respectable president. Everyone is in a hurry, and you are asked to hurry. The report even says that the article was very effective.Unable to connect to POP This is a work-in with the Department of Professional Road and Development. The bill suggests a change in package travel laws and interconnected travel options, No. 95/2018, that the legal postponement of sealers a package trip to seek out loans from the travel guarantee fund will be extended by two months. However, the travel agency needs to take a stand on applications no later than 31st December 2020, which marks the time limit for temporary government support provided by the EFTA monitoring agency and the fund's activities. Then the bill suggests that the period during which traders can apply for loans to travel responsibilities in order to meet remuneration requirements for consumers in accordance with the package laws and the interconnected travel arrangements due to unbooked and unscheduled packages may be extended by two months. At the same time, there is a secretary's authorization to extend the period by means of a regulations decommissioned. The conclusion of the report says, a respectable president: This is a priority for both consumers and sellers of packages that have permission to travel agency at 7 p.m. Law on Tourism, No. 96/2018. The bill suggests that the sellers of packages can apply for a loan from a travel guarantee fund for reimbursement by consumers who are canceled or canceled because of uncontrollable events. The bill does not take a position on individual travel. Rather, it is the general authority of the sealers to apply for loans because of such extended travel. Interim regulations on travel responsibilities do not include evaluation of when reimbursement is required according to the package travel laws and the interconnected travel arrangements. Funds by 2020, as stated by law No. 36/2020, adopted at the General Assembly of June 29, 2020, is authorized to contribute up to 4.5 billion dollars. to a travel guarantee fund. By the end of August of the month 32 applications had been received for reimbursement of less than 2.4 billion dollars. Therefore, according to the Ministry, it is clear that the extension of the period should be extended within the financial resources proposed to be provided from the fund or up to 4.5 billion dollars, when considering the applications that have already received the funds and the fact that applying will extend over the period of time when the effects of a pandemic crown virus on the performance of the package travel were most important. If reimbursement applications exceed that amount, they need to be met by additional funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u79	We are now conducting a vote in a extended assembly meeting area. This will lead to some changes, including that not all members, according to the nature of the case, of the vote tables here in the hall, are to be seen, but cameras are to cast a picture of them on the side panel. The chairmans of Congress and the presidents sit in the hall, so if it's helpful to see how they intend to assign their votes, then they can interpret it. Not everyone has the same fasting seat as before, i.e. nor here in the hall, but the chairmans of a council sit about the same way as they were before, and the ministers who are in the hall quite in their seats. Let's hope this works out well. The president will try to walk slowly through the vote so that everyone will have their rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u80	Mr. President. Here we vote on an important case that will improve the state of the poor first buyers and others who have not owned property for five years, helping people who have suffered a severe fall. The changes made on the bill are all for improvement. I would particularly like to welcome a 20% share defined as a contribution to housing in the country. However, it is important to note that this is not the only means for housing, far from it, but this is an important step to improve housing security and should be welcomed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u81	A respectable president. Piranus votes with the majority of the modifications made by the greater part, and then the whole thing changed. However, one of us does not support the rules of using earmarks 20% of applications in the construction of apartments in the country. This case would have benefited from an even more thorough review, and we expect that soon the legislation will have to be adjusted. We have the need to start right away to observe the actual effects of the law when they enter into effect because their impact remains unclear for reasons explained in earlier discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u82	President. The loans we're paying votes here are part of the biographer contract. We in the media support the opinion of more and more, supporting the whole case in advance, which I covered in detail in a talk just now and therefore will not extend my case any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u83	Mr. President. I used to think carefully about the comments we make on the convention reveries, but their goals are very good. I then explained that we would support the case with confidence that these suggestions would be revised, and the situation would be further improved because we believe that there is no tent until one night. On the other hand, I must use this opportunity to declare a surprising decrease as a result of the progress of one member of the council who comes up here in a pita, that it appears to be a ridiculer of the government council council members who were critical of the matter, expounding the matter for the better, making suggestions for improvement, and then declaring that they are going to support it. It seems obvious to me that the members of the government were not the same as the government's appeals as the government's members were given to show solidarity in matters of public interest during these difficult times. It's just a sign of some old-fashioned, lame political bitch I wish you wouldn't see a sign here while we're working on these matters. [[The president calls.]] The restoration says yes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u84	Mr. President. The party votes with this case, which is long time. It is long time for us to look for ways to pay the money to make a home. However, I must agree with those who are concerned about the practices in this case and with the professionality behind the billing process and the modification proposals of more things, some of which are certainly improving. Yet, others are designed in such a way that there is a lack of analysis and careful management. So we'll vote for the case, but we're not going to support all of the modifications.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u85	A respectable president. We're about to vote for the stock loans. Earlier this evening, I felt a lot of contempt, a sense of despondency, and a lack of effort on the part of those who needed it. But I will support the case on the grounds that at least it will reach some group that will definitely need it. I hope so much and fervently that it will be revised so that those who do not enter this system and are in need of it will also get their solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-134.u86	President. No doubt the matter will benefit. Whether it will necessarily reach all those who need it, I think I'm pretty clear not to be. In particular, there are two groups that bite about this, those who are in low-paying or who have a low income for a long time, such as micro-terrestrials, etc., and a temporary group in this position that falls into this, i.e. 3,000,55,000 freshmen every year. Very well if they also come into this, but this is not a focus specifically, necessarily, and mostly to those most in need of this. With regard to the national situation. The commission stated that the 20% of the people attached in the region will be not just in the region but in the cold areas of the country. The Ministry stated that it might be more difficult to support construction in these areas because property would be less valuable because it was a cold area and so the demand might be smaller, the property would be smaller in terms of the cost of building it. Which means it's a bear joke to those who use the resources there. At the same time, the European Union opposed this approach. But this was clearly forced by the majority of the committee. I wish I could make that clear.
