ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u1	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a judicial hearing with a greater part of the Economic and Business Commission's proposal for a bill to legalize the laws of public pay and insurance fees. This is a continuation of dues. As mentioned in the opinion of the committee, the Commission discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and had a meeting or a telephone meeting put out of it by Snorri Olsenur, the governor of the Taurus, and Halldór of Benjamín Þorbergsson, director of the Association of Employment. The bill suggests that there will be a temporary addition of the laws on the payment of public pay, No. 45/1987, Apartment Code, No. 113/1999, on the other hand. The law shall require a postponement to pay half of the fees on Day 1 of March 1 under law until April 1. and the deadlines will be 14 days later or 15th April. As the members of Congress know, the bill takes the first step in the efforts the government has made to cope with sudden and unpredictable economic problems caused by a Covid-19 pandemic. According to a bill report, measures are aimed at reducing damage, ensuring a negative impact on life and economic activities that will damage and create situations for the subsequent powerful resistance. Then he says further: The situation today is critical because of the COVAD-19 pandemic. When it can be translated into the economy, but by the type of response suggested here, it can greatly reduce the impact and thus protect the Icelandic economy. The agreed bill will allow the remuneration to be held after twice the pay period on the basis of 20 p.m. the laws on the local payment of public pay and 10 parlays. the law on insurance, however, which was unchanged on March 16 through April 15. In addition, the bill is responsible for the subsidies required by the law to be used under payment in terms of payment. Forced by 28. Thus, stipulation will not be applied on half of the pay that was due March 1, until April 16. Similarly, in terms of the 3rd listed, tolls do not diminish on inadequate insurance fees. 10th par. law on insurance, about half of the amount due to pay date 1st of March, until April 16. In the prehistoric debate on the bill, a minister challenged the companies who have a high capacity of not using the authority to make pay dues given to the bill but who are in full terms as it was on March 16th. The majority agree with this challenge, suggesting that measures such as this yields the best results in securing a broad solidarity. The majority then points out that a part of those who are due the pay of the bill is public. On March 16 it is reasonable that these parties are fully paid, but they do not use the authority contained in the bill. Mr. President. The majority then contributes to a number of technical adjustments in the requirement to make dates clear. This is suggested in the rendering of 2 st. the bill will be passed on to the 2nd issue. 10th par. Act of insurance. The change is designed to enhance the clarity of the laws, but it is not meant to exert a material influence on the bill. As mentioned earlier, this bill is a first step in government action to deal with the problems facing them. It is important that the bill be followed by targeted measures that support its purpose and loyalty, as it most clearly shows, that its objective to reduce the negative effects of the pandemic will be greatly reduced and the protection of the Icelandic economy will be achieved. Mr. President. Only on this committee view. In view of their motives, I think I can speak for everyone in the Economic and Business Committee when we say: "We will have a good and close partnership with the government, and we will expect our efforts to be sought and we will be allowed to take part in the shape of the proposals and measures to take place. Hv. Senators Smári Mccarthy and Þorsteinn Víglundsson are signing this in advance that they intend to make an account in a talk below. But, under that opinion, sign why. Óli Björn's Kárason, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Brutish the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Birggis the Birgir of Þórarinsson, Smári Víglundsson, in advance, Ólafur the Þorsteinn of Gunnarsson, and Willum Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u2	Mr. President. I take it quietly to celebrate it, especially as a boy. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said earlier. He said exactly what we would do in the Annexe, stressing yesterday's chairman meeting, that there would be an active and powerful relationship with the council. We have strong individuals within both the Economic and Business Committees and the budget committees who are to be both supportive of the government, its adviser and its collective body. I especially welcome these words of the Chairman of the Committee because I think they are important. I must honestly say, Mr. President, that I have feared that all this speech of the government would be meaningless. We have not had good experience in promoting the council, promoting the conversation, promoting the Senate and cooperation of the Parliament and the legislature and the Commission on the other hand. It's not until now, and that's why it's important that we keep working together in this, that we stick together, because it's easy to go somewhere else. We have 360,000 viral experts in our country these days. I point out that today, of course, we support and listen to what our good trinkets say, Alma, Víðir and Viðars say. Well, I appreciate it, but since I'm up here, I'd like to ask you which one. A senator one because I'm not a member of the Committee. Hv. Says one senator: It is important to follow this way to ensure the meaning of the bill. Does he think that there could have been more ways of making this move so as not only to ensure a certain amount of space for the companies but also to the small and mediums? [[The president calls.]] [[The president allows himself to say that he views everyone as a dog. Senators are powerful, not just members of the Economic and Business Committee.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u3	Mr. President. I understood why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir so that we would be considerably more powerful in a financial and business committee than possibly others. But let it lie in between things. [[The point is, it's just a meeting board.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] When we're dealing with a problem that I think we're all convinced of or hoping is temporary, we're trying to work together. I think it would be most successful if we were to unite, but it also requires that we be lucky not to go to an auction market, that we are not in the race for one another to offer better. That is true of the government groups, and that is true of government opposition. The challenge for us, both in government and in government, is there. That is why it is important that we be careful and achieve as much solid solidarity as possible. Asked if any other methods have been discussed. Yes, it was handled on the committee. I thought that the time frame and the time pressure could be done only to present the bill in a way that should be taken very seriously, as any member of the Parliament knows. We're gonna have to take care of this case today and turn it into a law. I hope we can do it, though it's modern and even if there's a difference of opinion. I may have gone a little further, I'm not going to trace it, but I accept this way. I think that when the employment organization says it's a good first step, and the head of state says it works, and that's the best way to do it, it's wise to move on. [[The president calls.]] We are making room to cope with the problems for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u4	Mr. President. It is important to deal with the problem, so we offer some future solutions that will make Iceland stronger when we are out of this century's valley and at the same time be more competitive and perhaps more determined than any other country to face many challenges. I point out that the discussion can't be one-sided. It must not be merely that the government would come here and say, "We must stand together,'and the government itself will come and say, " We need to stand together, and it's just a government that offers one-sided suggestions and no conversation or consultation. ' Why am I saying that? To prevent a riot that can be not just an auction market on the part of a government or a certain category there, it is much the same within the parties that I fear will be an auction race. I urge both the president of the Economic and Business Committee and other members of the board to remember, as well as the members of this body, that the conversation matters. If we don't respect it, the hell can be loose. This is simply my insistence on what to do. A senator whom I especially rejoiced to say earlier that he wanted more conversation, as I left him, with the minister of finance and the government's experiences. It's a powerful people, whether strong or not, in the Economic and Business Committee as well as in the financial committees and the committees that have to deal with the complex issues we face. There's no one in here, no matter what category he belongs, I'm told, who will drag something off to solve the complex issues of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u5	Mr. President. I think that's right. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, said, there is a temptation in both. I think I have said that we, who are in the government, are subject to temptation, and we also have the opposition to some kind of auction. I'm warning you. I agree with what. A senator, if we have the wisdom to work together, and we join together, we will be able to do the work we need to do. This does not change the fact that we will face many challenges. Surely we will not agree on all the action that is needed. It is only natural for us to cope, but we can work together and hopefully reach a common conclusion in as many cases as possible. Some of these will be very difficult, difficult decisions must be made, and they will test our courage, courage, and political strength to make those decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u6	Mr. President. I would like to recommend my share of the Economic and Business Committee. The smaller part of the board is the one standing here representing the United States Group on the Committee. The bill is intended to deal with sudden and unpredictable economic problems caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. It is granted to companies to postpone half the fees and local tax pay. Is it important that the objective of all the measures taken by the government should minimise the economic damage caused by the epidemic and that the community has the potential to act rapidly when the pandemic has passed? This committee lists a representative of the Economic and Business Commission several ways that should be considered to reduce the damage caused by the homes and businesses of the country during a pandemic and economic depression. We support the bill, but we want the committee's opinion to stress that this operation alone is not enough. It is important that more measures be made to make clear what will take place. The payday of the cost tax is April 5th, and the minority wants to be considered subject to a continuation of that payment as well. In addition to postponing public pay due to the company, it is important that companies get unemployment benefits to keep people in part - time jobs. Bankers need to show understanding and flexibility. It is important that companies do not run out of business during the pandemic. The banks need the ability to meet companies, such as short - term loans or deadlines. Low growth and growth in public investments will also help to speed up rotation. While governments are looking for ways to combat unemployment through measures that help companies to lose their jobs, it is important to consider those who still have lost their jobs. The minority wants them to be directed to banks and pension funds to provide unemployed time to pay interest and payments on the mortgage. It may be that the State can use a policy to influence that situation. It is also important to consider the possibility of temporarily decreasing overgrowth. This will make it easier for people to reimburse housing loans, but such a procedure will result in a lower pay load for their households. Cooperation with rural society may also lead to a loss of real estate or a delay in payment for people who lose their jobs. The smaller section now feels very important to raise unemployment rates because they are historically low compared to minimum wage. It should also be considered to increase the payment of an insurance company according to minimum wage. Some countries have gone by the way of raising payments for pensioners and joblesss, including to increase demand for the economy. A salary that is needed or that has to be obtained has to be ensured. The prime minister has foretold that there will be a bill in that case, and such action supports the lesser part. During the pandemic, large events will be postponed. Reports of annual festivals, concerts, and other entertainment have been many, and now the ban has been announced. Often, employees in the income - related sectors are not in the position of going to medical funds or other sources of funds. Self - employed people in various fields lose food because of less demand or because of illness or isolation. To solve this temporary problem, some funds should be set up in order to ensure the survival of an otherwise vulnerable group. It is important to evaluate the effect of government action on different groups of society and to identify the effects by sex. Women are more numerous than men in the service. In the near future, private consumption is likely to decrease and the number of service jobs will be reduced. So the growth in road construction and construction work will not be enough. President. It is vital that the government monitors whether export companies carry currency notes of their trade home. The incentive for those who do not trust in the crown may be increased to flee to other stable currency. This could speed up the crown and lead to a violent attack on it, with bad results for homes and society all. Under such danger, governments must be prepared and ready to act. Finally this. Not only do we deal with the consequences of Covid-19 in the health and economy but we also deal with downturn in the economy that the epidemic might make even deeper. In this situation, we need to protect our welfare system, work against unemployment, support our job life, and homes in the country. Care must be taken to ensure that no one will forget when it comes to government action. Meetings with the board of directors at the General Assembly, a full labour market organization and with rural society are essential, and the basis for success and reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u7	A respectable president. During our restoration, we support all the action that will be taken to ease the job situation in the present situation. But I can't help but say, as I did in my case also answer the highest. Secretary of finance earlier, when it was recommended, that I believe that it would have had to go further. It was handled, including in discussions with the Economic and Business Committee. The head of the Economic and Business Committee made it known in his case that he did not want to contribute to some political superior. That's not what it's about. For one thing, of course, it is very important for a government who preaches a word of agreement but does not sue the council so late that the message is that there is no room for anything other than to accept what is laid down. There is no room or time for any material discussion. We cannot interfere with this in any way, for this will result in a lack of time. It is not an acceptable method of work, and it is proper to remind us that the government itself preached at a press conference rather than a participant, on Tuesday, action was just a deadline. There was plenty of time for full consultation with the memory to have a careful conversation about it to ensure that the action being performed today, which is the first that the real hand would have to do. I also remind you of the highest word. Secretary of finance and a number of people who have discussed this discussion: Make sure we do a little too much but too little in the first round. I have personally found myself in such circumstances as running a business where the funds are rising faster than anyone else, worrying about how to pay off the next month's pay, worrying about how to pay off bills, how to pay on public fees, credits that are high in fines and laws against paying. That's why I would have wanted to go further on these subjects. On the other hand, I'm not going to, or we are going to go to some political command here by presenting a new proposal. It is obvious that there was no desire on the part of the more part of the Economic and Business Committee to discuss some other possible implementations on this case that would be more successful, especially for SMEs. I say once again: I miss the government's clearly showing that she's aware of the seriousness of the situation we are dealing with, that she realizes how acute this problem is. These are enterprises all over the job, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are simply in the biology of these days. They're fighting for their lives. They are making decisions as to whether they need to go into broad silences or even bankruptcy. We've already heard of the first bankruptcy. In such circumstances, we are here to do all we can to lighten the load. This is a temporary arrangement for a month. I think we could have been more ambitious, we could have gone further, and I'm sorry we haven't used that opportunity, because that's the biggest opportunity we have to help out our jobs, and now we can say for at least the next two weeks or two months. That is why I call for the government to do better work, to bring things into the council on time, and to have better consultation with the smaller parts of the council so that with a good conscience we can meet together to the decisions made here, and together we can make sure that they are going far enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u8	Mr. President. In the face of disaster, it is vital that we show a measure of cooperation and cooperation and try to work things out as well as possible. The type of response to this virus is two types of virus, one of which is the health gate involved in ensuring that the health system is working and that the public protection can perform its functions and the necessary actions when needed. That has even been true. have been shown today. That side's been going pretty well. The economic side, however, is the protection of the companies and households in the country, making sure that everything will continue to work well both through the viral but also when it is over. Now it's a great bill, and it's easy to back it up. It's a normal, good operation in the right direction. It's also easy to try to offer better. It's easy to get caught up in some plutonium mode and try to pretend to have a better solution about bigger numbers, longer intervals, etc. I'm not going to get into that mode, but I'd like to point out that part of the goal we all must have here is that the teamwork we have to work in every direction, that the government will come to everyone and talk to everyone at the council about what is best to do, what ideas are open to us, that we are trying to update the best possible ideas of the time, not just the ones that can be run out in one night at the Ministry of finance. I'm not saying that these are bad ideas. This is a fine solution for now and buys time to bring bigger, better, and more precise actions next week. I would like to beg the government to start taking the smaller part of a council in agreement on what to do next and especially on decisions made by other countries. Just now, a considerable effort was announced in Germany, which included some of them. was described as a baloney of the country's financial minister. I don't know if that's necessarily the best possible action. I can't say that I've been very happy with the work of Germany in the medical field until now, so I don't know if the financial side is necessarily the right side, but if we're not open to the possibilities available, if we're not open to discuss all the possibilities, if we're not also ready to check if there are certain percentages and measures that are right at any time, we don't miss out of any opportunity. And now we cannot afford to lose an opportunity. Now, we must do well by looking out for potential opportunities, fostering the health gate, fostering the economic system, and, in all cases, more powerful than anything we can do. My last point is that there's a danger that people might get defensive, pack up at such a time, but I think we should try to use this as an opportunity to do better than we would have done. While there is a problem with trying to create serious problems, solidarities can produce a lot of results. Let's give her a shot.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u9	Mr. President. The media is supporting this case. That's good, as far as it goes. The central category is at the top of the Committee, and the positive thing is presented at a recent meeting of the Committee, that the employment community is pleased with the bill. It's a question of whether this operation is effective. Is this how it works in small and medium-sized companies? It was something special in the Committee that the Chairman of the Committee felt irritable because we discussed ideas and other developments, whether this was possible, etc. I agree with it. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson said that in this case just earlier, in such a matter that is extremely important, a state of full solidarity, and that yields the desired result, it is perfectly natural that there are some transfers to the case within the committee without the head and majority of the items being irritated over it and really not discussing the matter any further. I don't think that's the best thing to do in the ahead. Here are many subjects that will discuss, as mentioned, when it comes to unemployed, and those who are losing their jobs, worth a tax account, and so on. There are a lot of things to discuss in this context and I don't think this is going to start well enough, at least. ... likeI'vebeensetup at the Economic and Business Committee meeting earlier. I hope that's gonna change. Hv. The chairman of the Committee Óli Björn Kárason announced in his talk earlier that he would cooperate with the smaller section. I'm just hoping that it will do then, that it's not just a beautiful word said, and then when it comes to meeting them, people become frustrated, angry, and angry about people presenting some ideas. It's not what we're supposed to do here in such a big deal, and it's not what the people want to see. We are to bring together solutions that can be mutually acceptable and able to cope with the unprecedented situation that we face. Of course, all are willing to do their best in this regard. The media stress that this is a temporary operation. The action that all of us are required to take is permanent and should be addressed to all classes in all procedures. This is, in our opinion, a good first step, as they say. We must not forget, Mr. President, and it should be noted that according to the same situation, there will be nothing easier to pay later. Will it be easier to pay on April 1 than on due date on March 1? That's what we're looking at. You see, I think then we'll find that one of our urgent tasks is now getting us off the United States Prohibition List, which is an amazing operation by our friendly nation in the Atlantic Union that we have a protective partnership with. Each day of that material is enormously expensive to us, so it is more important to try to get us off that list. I expect the Secretary of State to use all his advice on this matter next week when he comes to see the U.S. Secretary of State. I'd also like to mention in this relationship that I'm keeping a very close eye on the crown and the gang. It is important to take action if it is found that the march is going to drop abnormally fast, that we intervene because it affects our country's homes, makes it raise the population's interest, goes into the prices, etc. and we're into things we don't want to see at all. I reiterate what I said earlier, that there will be good cooperation with the government opposition in these areas. We're all in cooperation with the Central Party. We have good ideas, and hopefully they'll listen to us in that regard. I just want to finally, Mr. President, come on to the point of the Commission opinion and the chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke in his speech. At the bottom of the committee's opinion, the company is motivated to pay on Monday to be able to do so. It's important to me that the companies that can pay for it. I would have liked to see some sort of implementation in this regard, some sort of motivation for these enterprises because it, of course, will remember that this will enter the state fund at the right time. Other than that, we support this issue and stress that here is a positive first step in action that needs to be settled and to have the desired results.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u10	Mr. President. I'm going to begin by saying, "I'm with my cousin, why." paritaprevir It's a daughter of Oddný G. Harðardóttir, where she explained our views. The projects that we feel we need to take are not exhaustive, but they indicate that we are ready for ideas and solutions, and they highlight where the water will be directed when the action is announced and approved. I also want to agree with other members of the council that have discussed the importance of consultation. As we know, nearly half of the voters and democracies are affected by the majority of those in positions of government. In itself, we have received a good promise from the presidents of the government that this will be done. We must see to it that it will be followed whole - souled, and it is the right thing to say. Víglundsson And then it must also be in a way that does not function as a duty but, rather, give sufficient counsel to cover and cast different light on the suggestions that most certainly come from the government. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Wazowski, son of Víglundsson, quoted by the highest degree. Secretary of finance for perhaps now is doing more than that. In a sense it can be true, but in another way it describes the delicateness of the situation because we also do not have an inexhaustible fund, so we need to be careful that the actions that will be handled will be determined and directed toward them and to those who really need them. I'm not sure that all companies in the country, our giant firm in some industry, may need as much of a need to obtain a discount of insurance and small and medium-sized companies certainly need. I also know pretty good, like what. A senator, running a business that was small in the delicate sector through a collapse, so I know that they need a strong intervention. That's why I support this bill, it's only delay for a few days to provide a more complete, better, and more specific solution that we all need to come to. This bill is as if we were sending the road into the country to clear the road and instead of pushing the snow off the road, it pushed the handle ahead. It may be necessary to cover one pagan level, but one month from now this scrap is waiting for us, which has grown because the impact on us will increase. During the last days, much has been said about the effects on tourism. We must not forget that business jobs in the country do not drive and are not connected. The damage the tourism might get at this time is in the food and service sector and with the artists. It is important to resolve their circumstances. It will quickly affect other articles, the builders have to come up to the hotels and fix the hotel rooms, the laundry needs to wash the linen, designers to carry on with an assignment, and so on, so we are simply dealing with situations where the effects will quickly reach out for all the sectors of employment. That is how we need to think about it, but we also need to be careful to take the idea of doing more or less of the money we waste. We have to turn the funds to the things that really need to get us through this scrap. We should especially talk about the people who are standing here, the homes of the land that are severely affected. According to this, I, along with the rest of the government, insist that we have a lot to offer. We can and would like to cooperate with the government on this challenge, but for this, the government must respect his promises to bring us along.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u11	Mr. President. The objective of this bill is to soften the economic blow that now strikes the nation and take time to do further action. Let us see, then, that we are merely pushing the handle forward about one month with this bill. However, the Union will support the bill, confident that the next few days will be working hard to find solutions to companies in business problems, as well as to ensure the wealth and security of the people, where the government will have to pay a close promise to work closely with the government, the employee movement, the career position, and other stakeholders, and provide sufficient advice for the council to discuss the situation and lay hand in hand. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-74.u12	A respectable president. We will be supporting this bill, which is the first step. This could have been more clear and more decisive, but it is still an important first step and an important message to the community here sent by the Council. If and when the government has more press conferences, I reiterate to prime minister that, as most of the messages are sent to all from this council Hall in the hearing ear, especially to the legislature, not only to agree and talk and information but that the information provided to our people, our individuals, families, and most important companies is clear, that the answers are clear. After the discussion of an invitation to a lunch term, there are small companies, the privateists, the artists, who have, among other things, little ones. a job by showing not only in theaters but also by sharing in annual festivals, etc., carpenters, etc., a little loose air. [[The president calls.]] I encourage the government to explain how to meet these groups. I ask for clear answers and decisive action.
