ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u1	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 1168, on contracts of government funds, from Biri Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u2	Mr. President. We now experience unprecedented times, and at such times, our response and timing are all important. The best way to react is to ideas that come from as far as most people are concerned, especially from politicians, how to deal with individual problems and the situation. The more likely the response is to be the right and the most effective. At present, the community and indeed the whole world is more and less in a free fall from economics and the situation takes change every day, if not at a shorter time. No one really knows what it looks like after a month, so I don't know how long it's gonna be. Therefore, Mr. President, I now state that although I fully understand that the council is being held in absolute minimum, I believe it is important to allow further discussions, e.g. special discussion and discussion about the activities of the council. It is not for long, nor does it call for a great deal of presence or risk to infect. A discussion may never be as important as it is now, Mr. President. For example, there are a number of worthwhile issues, e.g. there is a need to discuss the classes that stand in the line of fire, many of which have open agreements with the State. I'm calling police and nurses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u3	Mr. President. So I'm directed to Mr. President for a special discussion at the council on the situation that has come up in the battle against the crown virus. The government despises nurses, the ones we need most in times of danger. The message of the government with a woman in the seat of prime minister and a woman in the seat of the health minister to the nurses, the largest women class of the country, and that in a pandemic situation, is this: We are not interested in making deals with you even though treaties have been released for one year. We reduced your salary during the month, and we made a recommendation at the Generals to offer you a special salary. Mr. President. The General must intervene and stop this unprecedented conduct of the government. This serious matter must be addressed as soon as it is handled. I'm looking for Mr President's help.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u4	The president points out that this meeting is being announced to have an unprepared question period and not the highest. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. Health ministers are available today. The meeting here will be carried out completely according to the approved Presidency Committee of March 19th.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u5	To answer these questions: Economic and economic ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, foreign and development minister, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, education and cultural ministers, and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u6	A respectable president. When I'm at the highest. The minister of finance was briefly the prime minister, and he came hand-to-hand at the HeForShe event in New York with a pink cake he decked himself with. During the event, a minister said that he was hoping that in later years he would be remembered for having contributed to increasing the equality of the sexes. Shortly thereafter, an angry government blew up. Minister and he again became minister of finance. It remains at the highest. So a minister will keep at least To the end that he supports the equality of the sexes, that he is for them. V.E.G. A minister has had one chance after another to demonstrate his real appreciation for women's work as much as that of men. He has had years of work as a man in power, but despite the wonderful promises, in spite of the equal wages for similar work, and despite the pink decoration, it is on duty at the highest level. Ministers who do not achieve a bargain with nurses. It's on duty at the highest. A minister to whom midwives have to undergo a judicial hearing, and it was also on his watch that a minister of finance was subjected to a contract five years ago by the nurses. Now that the collective agreements of this forward force are still free and have been released for a year, the highest response will be given. Minister to ask why. paritaprevir The other day, Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, finds that he does not know how much it takes to negotiate with nurses. V.E.G. So a minister who handles the government's agreements in private affairs was not even aware of what it takes to comply with the demands of this basic female class in the country. Of course, this is remarkable. Mr. President. I'm here, in the hope of being the highest. Finally, a minister felt embarrassed enough not to know the answer to that important question, and he can now answer it. How much does it cost to pay a nurse?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u7	A respectable president. I'm going to leave this tasteless outlet to be answered for the HeForShe campaign that I and we in the government have taken full part in. It actually began during the reign of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunoug. In this regard, we have simply contributed a great deal with many events and have received great commendation so that I do not understand the purpose of this review of the discussion today. I don't think it's a good taste. In terms of nurses contracts, the state has been having discussions with nurses since the release of the contracts. The present contract has made a great deal of progress, as has the recent years of special effort in the Hospital. It has, for example, been found there. worked in three different conflicts in the Agency to improve the working environment of nurses and make the work more attractive. It is now turning into a basic change in watch setting, not just nurses, but other classes. Actually, there is an agreement on this change, which was the focus of the nurses in this phase at the time we're here to talk. This is an agreement that will lead to the need for shift workers to work fewer hours each week, and the schedule will be reviewed. We have had a different temporary conflict in the Land Hospital, which the Landskeeper has been responsible for. What's in the discussion right now is a campaign that we can call a special watch load that's running its course. In time, the unfortunate result is that it comes out like a decrease in pay, but it was clear that it was a temporary effort. The task now is to arrange for the collective agreement so that all nurses can benefit from the results and receive in a better choice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u8	President. V.E.G. A minister is understandably sensitive to questions about his integrity in equality, but is there no hope that a woman will ask? The minister was right in this regard to measuring for investment campaigns that do not meet the requirements for sexuality. He's going to spend billions of dollars on traditional male activities, but it's not that he can be taken for granted, and it's a long time for nurses, 97% women's classes. The minister has defended himself behind the excuse to walk with the nurses'claims that other government agreements may be in an upset state. But now we know that nurses have about 12% less average wage than other professions with a similar education, and we also know that the work of nurses involves more stress and responsibility than most others do. This is a work of duty where life is at stake and never as it is now, as even a minister must be clear in the middle of a pandemic. What it takes to get to the highest level. Will a minister stop decoring the cake with poor excuses and give a fair bar off on the cake to nurses?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u9	A respectable president. In the current labour contract, the biographies have set a standard, and the state has already reached agreements with approx. 50 percent of government employees and the university graduates who work for the State. On these basics, treaties have already been established. In our current session, we have also agreed, I want to mean, on the basics of which the most emphasis was placed. In case of a moment. A senator would really like to examine how nurse support has developed in my time as a minister of finance, as I look forward to seeing the comparison, because the cost of earnings and the remuneration of this class has been better in my time as Minister of finance than ever before. That's the grade I'm gonna get the will of what. A senator really makes that comparison. [[Up front.]] The task now is to complete the contract so that it will play together with the existing contracts in force for the result... [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u10	Not frontal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u11	--suspect for nurses. That's the goal. [[For example: There is no decrease in pay. You don't answer, he doesn't answer...]] [[The request has been answered.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u12	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u13	The request has been answered. Wait a minute. Senators to hold back. Ministers hire their own answers and members of Congress with questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u14	Mr. President. There will be no covering of the huge task that we are facing; the preservation of life, the battlement of human life, and the restoration of the nation's economy. They also hide no one, our disillusionment, and our voters that the government has rejected cooperation and proposals for increased support in businesses and homes, rejected increased injections in investments and welfare matters. National employment lack has already grown, well over twice as many applications in one month as the year before. Nowhere does the situation look as bad as it is on Southnes, where predicting up to 25% unemployment, 25%. That's why I want to ask the highest. Economic and economic secretary how he was righteous and explained in view of this, the proposal for commercial and valuable investments, such as hurrying up the recovery of the Smokey Ways from the Fits, that the terminal was rejected. Mr. President. The worldwide crown viral epidemic is the fifth major blow in the Southnes, thus facing people and businesses and homes in a decade and half. It was the first elimination of the U.S. Army, followed by the collapse of the bank and the subsequent recession, as well as the immediate loss of a job market in Southnes. In fact, later, the hopes for a job structure in Helga have not come true as it is known, and then the fall of WOW a year ago and now this is what I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: What is being done on the part of the government to soften the high impact of professional life and, therefore, the decapitation of companies and households on Southnes has been repeated in recent years, reaching a climax with the result of the crown virus? I'm asking the highest. Minister: How and when will the Southern emergency call be answered?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u15	A respectable president. It's all right. A senator says, we face a shock of an previously unknown magnitude. We can only find out here when we walk the streets that our jobs have been shut down in the middle of town and across the country. The latest figures show that if you continue to look at it, you will be collected into your system and on the unemployment registry approximately 20% of Iceland workforce. It's heading for it. My answer to a question why. The senator will consider this. We've stepped in with a general procedure that is our first reaction. We're playing in fog. There's a certain darkness in front of us about how this is going to play. We are ready to go further, and as for a special investment project, I encourage people to examine what this government has really added in investments, and then this investment over past emphasis, which means if we just look back like two years, that we have a 60% bigger investment today than it was then. We're raising it now from year to year, by year to 40%. We are in a huge investment campaign and, of course, can be picked up, such as before. A member of the body, an individual building project or individual construction, asks: Why wasn't this included on the list? The important point is that we have entered this picture with a handsome increase in investment, an increase in investment that we have seen in the past. This is in addition to the part - time ministry and other activities we are doing. In particular, this is a major concern. Of course, the statements from Istavia add to other concerns we have. We need to find ways to bridge this gap and have faith in the future, use the time to prepare for another life in the Leifs station, so that tourists begin to come and spread it into all the surrounding Southnes. [[The president calls.]] There are many things to consider that will occur in the months to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I share his thought that it is an enormous project and extensive task, but because he spoke of the fact that there is always a way to pick a piece of work on a list, that's exactly what it is. A government did, and I was criticizing, that the art would not necessarily be the mark of this great problem the Southnes are facing. A great demand, intense pressure as well as a demand for expertise in the job market tend to be a recipe for a good salary, but it's not always, unfortunately. I'd like to discuss these matters with nurses who have not been able to negotiate since 2014 but, as it turns out, to use a law and procedure and then, apparently, have shown no apathy for solution in the past year. Now at the end of the month, when pressures on these classes are high and their work is more dangerous than ever before, the leave is a significant decrease in pay for which the government standards of land hospitals were met by canceling the pay of shift pressure. V.E.G. A minister went over early that this was unfortunate, but this wasn't unfortunate - this is a fairy tale bullshit, Mr. President. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the budget: Where in the priority setting of government money is fixing these issues? [[The president calls.]] How long can nurses expect to wait? [[The president calls.]] Fear the highest. If this case cannot be completed properly, will the secretary of finance not be the result? Finally this: Is it really in the highest position? Minister okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u17	A respectable president. For the watch load, there are contracts made inside an institution that are not related to a central negotiation. I used the wording that this was unfortunate because it appeared to us as a reward reduction but was thinking that it was a temporary effort, and it was months since the campaign was completed at the time. What I have to say about these points at this point is that I am optimistic about the fact that we finish our contracts. Under the direction of Kingdom states, we have solved the focus of the work programme and the shortening of the work week, thus creating a better working environment for health care professionals who perform this vital work during shift work. This point I think is solved at the bargaining table. It remains a part of the pay force, which particularly involves the interaction of central contracts and developers, like the one on the watch, and that's what we have to solve. We must expect to solve it by not losing anyone's salary at new bargains.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u18	A respectable president. At the General, we've passed the law that we've put our insurance companies in harmonization, we've put on them belts and bracelets. The latest example is that they are now to be placed on an American microenergy diet so that no amount of money can pass through in pocket resistance. How can it be legal for a micro-energy committee to ignore the Supreme Court's judgment that a micro-energy committee will create new laws and go to an American micro-energy food table when it has always been compared to a Danish tablet so far? I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does this committee have such great authority and authority? We need to learn from experience, we know that the situation in the bank crash is now, and in this crash, there is a danger that unions with a lot of pressure may fall. Is it expected that some major accident will occur ahead and is being assured that those who have accidents will be guaranteed? Yeah. But do they get it better? No, but it's about time. There is another aspect of this: We need to realize that at the same time as insurance companies have lawyers to defend themselves, and the same amount of money does not make people want to fight them. There is no neglect, and I ask, What is the Minister of Justice doing about it? Is she allowing this committee to take up the claims of insurance companies against damage tolerance?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this matter to the attention. Yesterday my attention was awakened with an open letter received to me in the Morning Press, and I immediately set up an inquiry about this in the Ministry, and, of course, will follow through. This is something that needs careful consideration and order. We want to make sure that these matters are in harmony with the proper channeling. I'm going to get better into this, so I know it better, all over it, not just what was said in the letter yesterday, but in the back story as well as the other. I'm gonna take some time for the next few days, but I've started a poll and I can assure you of it. A senator that I will follow through on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of Justice and sincerely hope that she will see to it that this matter will be reviewed because of what we know about the collapse of the bank. We know what happened, e.g. one of the thank-yous. He disappeared, and we know where he ended up. This is for our own protection, and it must be time for those who are out there and have job or traffic accidents - the most pathetic thing people can get in the middle of a crisis is to fight health, but at the same time, they're fighting an overpowering insurance company. The most amazing thing about all of this is that money and lawyers are infested, but damage can be attributed to receiving pennies or nothing, and then again and again the denial of the application by the Ministry of Justice. This needs to be revised, the law has to make a legal application a part of the insurance system so that anyone who gets injured will seek his rights to the courts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. This is for a senator. This matter is important, and that is why it needs to be considered. Then we could take here a special discussion about the abjection, how it should be handled, how it is today, and how it has developed. There's a very special subject for this discussion. But this is a matter that matters, and I agree with it. A senator, people are not supposed to have to fight the overpowering system, but they should have their lines clear, especially for people who have had a major accident and who are fighting for their lives or progress. It's important that the system is clear and that people know what it's coming up to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u22	Mr. President. We politicians have agreed to show solidarity in dealing with the present situation. It was seen quite well in the votes here on Monday, where the government's administration supported all the government's actions and proposed some ideas of further action, although they were not led by a gang of governments. They were all in tune as though they could not possibly handle it. It's important, Mr. President, in a time like this, that you look at and meditate on ideas from all sides. At the same time, it is evident in such a state that it is difficult to track down all small fires that are on fire in many parts of society. Most important, we need an injection into the public system except for the direct response to the epidemic, as well as the poorer resources, the system is hovered and the most complicated. It'll come back to us later, and time and again it'll show that it's hard to go back if it's given in that field. However, many of the government's actions have fallen to the government. They put the funds in and out of the system, and you can be concerned that they'll swell up, that they'll have experts in the institutions where they'll inject the injection and that the booth will expand. I'm going to direct my questions to the highest. Economic and financial secretary on this subject. I'm asking if the highest. The secretary of finance shares these opinions with me, whether it is not more successful to employ commercial measures rather than the public sector. Then I specifically ask: Do Ministers believe that a significant cut-off of insurance is possible? This would have a broadly positive effect on the overall work environment, would help all companies, could prevent expansion and provide oxygen to the companies, most of whom are having contractions in the months ahead. Would it be possible to cut down the insurance fee so much if it were only for a short while in the next month?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to say, first of all, that I thought it was a good way to get along on all the main issues that were taken care of here this week. Although it is true that the proposals of the government opposition outside our position of government were not accepted, I think there was an excellent solid basis for these early measures. These were early operations, necessary measures, they arrived in time, but these are not final measures. I'll share my concerns with you. The senator continues, and I must say, just as the situation is getting worse faster than I had hoped it would be. I had hoped that we would see a milder influence at first, but this is a worse situation. It's obvious that companies are even. ... becauseof the fiscal ban having to face extreme hardships, and there's a little moaning in this position how private security in the sector is in complete agitation at the same time as we're spending all our jobs in the public sector. What I would like to say more closely about some suggestions, such as whether it would be possible to interfere with my insurance fee, I gave that much thought to it before we took our action. It was my opinion at that point that the part - time ministry was much more efficient. It is a larger operation and more careful with the financial expenses of the companies than with the insurance bill. We have to remember, though, that the insurance bill is only a little over 6% of the company's pay expenses so that even if we handle it by half, there is no amount of value for an enterprise that has lost half its worth to take 3% of the pay. The part - time process is a much more efficient operation and if we have to extend it, we will spend another tens of billions of dollars in order to help companies get through this difficult time. I'll get this through in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answer. I'm talking about operations that are primarily useful to everyone. While there is a small reduction in the insurance policy, the insurance fee is very heavy in most companies and they complain a lot about how high it is. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister if he agrees with me in that now is the time to reduce taxes to an enterprise that will benefit all of them in the unprecedented situation we face. Today, measures due to the global virus epidemic have been mainly in the form of postponement of pay days and state responsibilities on loans to enterprises which are subject to a major loss of income because of the pandemic. It has not been successful with the tone of appreciation, it is totally unclear whether or not it is being postponed because of not knowing which step they should take in that material. The fact is, nearly all business is affected by the failures and the most practical measures are just the general tax reduction and the delay of a single payday is due to these companies later. I'm asking about realistic tax reductions, not just postponements. Delaying the host's fee has no effect because all the hostels are empty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u25	A respectable president. It's just a matter of time before your bedside fee. In 2021, we canceled the stay fee so that it would not be there when traveling services return. It's just a big deal. It doesn't matter if the hotels are empty now, it's a procedure that stretches out in 2021. For general action, it's good to step down harder. I have to say with the insurance bill that we're going to have to take a broad discussion about it. First, ask: What is the value of the insurance? Yes, it is, for example. ... togo for the longer maternity clinic we were making the right decision on. It is also designed to live up to the unemployment system that is currently under pressure. Cutting down or temporarily cutting it down is a discussion that must be associated with another requirement for longer living. I think it's an option. I'd like to have a strong feeling that this was important. I would never support my insurance fee falling apart except by the business economy, i.e. Business in the country, but not all of the public stuff, too. [[The president calls.]] I'm just thinking that it's about that we need to have a larger direct support operation on a business if they have a head to be able to survive this crisis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u26	Mr. President. Recently, there was an approved warrant for the state-security of the bridge loans to companies in trouble. This is one of the largest operations of the government. But I'm concerned that this route will not be useful to the little companies who really don't need a loan but a scholarship. There is no such thing in this government that forgets small and medium-sized companies as before. The mortgage will enjoy up to 70% of its responsibilities, so there must be no hiding here. The public, but not least other companies that will not be responsible for the State, have the right to know which competitive business these state-secured mortgages will enjoy. Must not hide behind a bank secret--or, may it be, my dear minister? By this means, the Icelandic public takes on as many as 50 billion dollars. State responsibility for business, and that's why it needs to be on the table. Thus, and only in this way, we will ensure an equality and transparency. Mr. President. We've had enough of those gray arts and skirt-creature pizzas. So I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance two simple and direct questions. First of all, does it stand to inform which companies will receive a state insurance loan? This is a very important question, since the conditions for the loans and ministers will be met with the Secret Bank. Second, how will a ministerial servant prevent the companies who are going to enjoy the state insurance of their loans from making money through their daughterhoods, as news reports indicate that it may be possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u27	A respectable president. I felt a little out of range in this inquiry. These two points that are specific to me are followed by questions. A senator seems to be condemning that the government does not have direct strength to small companies. This is a very interesting idea because it has been implemented in many parts of the North countries, and I believe that before long we will have to take our stand on how far we might be willing to join the bone sponsorship of companies so that they won't lose rent houses, lose employees, etc. In many places such support is now conditioned because businesses keep people on the payroll and support are designed specifically to prevent the State from accepting people directly on unemployment, while not all companies'rent issues get completely upset. This is a discussion that is very important and we need to deepen here at the council. But it's weird to miss a discussion about making more of it because of strengthening a company directly to worry that some people are getting potential loans they're going to pay back or that they may be going to try for the State responsibilities. I think we should immediately start a discussion about whether in some situation we will not be tested for the full collection of such loans. I think it's time to talk about it now. Or should everyone assume that every dollar borrowed from the bank system, including the state responsibility, has to be collected? It is only when a business bank has drawn the relevant loan to bankruptcy that is acceptable to be tested for responsibility? These are things that we should go seriously because the gratation is just deepening. We will demonstrate full transparency to the council. It has been written into the law that there is a special surveillance committee that will ensure this transparency. And, yes, I think there's a good chance that there's gonna be a list of every company that's been paid for it. There's no big deal for me, it's just a thing of its own, a full transparency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u28	Mr. President. I was feeling stressed, but finally I got an answer at the end. A list of the companies that enjoy state-trusted bridge loans will be published. I'm glad you're here. There should be no hideout here, for here we are talking about public interests and government loyalty loans of up to 50 billion. I'd like to add one important question. We can see that a number of companies are making good use of the stockbacks in which the public pays up to 75% of the staff of private companies. You will now hear e.g. News of one of the largest fishing companies in the country who decided to pay 2 billion dollars. Last night's profit, of all times. I wondered what the response would be if such a business suddenly began to take advantage of the subsidies from the state in the form of partial improvements. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister: Does the Minister believe that the prohibition against money also applies to companies that connect to the settlements? Does Ministers believe that it should also inform us about which company is enjoying this public account? It does not just have to ensure transparency, Mr. President, that the nation's sense of justice will not be offended in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u29	A respectable president. I believe that the transparency of these things is of utmost importance, and I would personally condemn those who have no reason, have not been lost, but intend to rely on these provisions. They're taking away the others who are really in need. It's so simple. The best would be if we could have as much transparency as possible and a report on these factors. But I feel that we're getting a little ahead of ourselves when we're starting to worry about how all this work's going to be done. Now is the time to ask: What options will help? How can we avoid the harm? It's time today. Of course, it is important that our actions be constructed so that we can get all the information and transparency and that principles are valid and monitoring. It's all very important, but the main thing must be whether we're doing something useful, whether we're gonna do it, whether we're gonna save enough jobs. I'm just going to state my opinion that the actions we've taken are probably not enough. We'll have to take a bigger step into this. The last week was extending the meeting ban, allowing it to delay longer than we hoped it would be, and this calls for even further steps. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u30	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers are involved in the national food security and agricultural production. We saw a statement yesterday, I think that was, in which the World Health Organization, Food Organization, and I recall the World Trade Organization, a joint statement that encourages the success of food trade and, most important, to ensure that food production is protected as well as food companies. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there have been any particular measures to protect the companies that are making food in Iceland and their companies as well. The map has been charted, e.g. by areas, which company is most important when it comes to this? Is there a map to ensure that enough food is available because the production of food in Iceland remains intact? These are important points, especially since people in many parts of the world are concerned that countries may become even more isolated, that food cannot flow between countries, that some countries will not become sufficient for themselves when it comes to food production. So how important it is that all of us take the steps, using all the resources we can in order to produce Icelandic food, whether by land or by sea, is secure by any means available. I reviewed the measures the Minister has made in his operations. I'm glad that they're giving the innovation to gardening, very good business, but there's more to do. Although vegetables are healthy and good, they do not merely exist. There's more to be done, so I'm gonna ask the Minister about the points I mentioned earlier. I also ask if there was any law - altering in order to offer the garden less power prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u31	A respectable president. It could have been a whisk. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who could get into this sort of inquiry, but I'm especially glad that the subject he was discussing is extremely important and has been discussed in the realm of government. There, including the U.S.A. These measures have been introduced, which is a very good agreement in the government and the Ministers and the Ministry as a team, with the main objective of ensuring the supply of food or food safety in this country. For one thing, at the Department of Employment and Development, we have had a good cooperation with the Ministry of Health for Disease Control to define national interest, including high-risk companies. food production. There's a list that, if I remember correctly, came in yesterday's news. So there is a guarantee that a company can walk. And then I know that the companies have already set up their disease prevention programme, each one of them. I appreciate that as well as possible, the production of food in Iceland has already been achieved in the current situation. Right away. A senator here talks about the quality and quality of vegetable production, and I agree with him. In the load, there is a contract for the gardening that includes the gardening process. on that point. A senator was referring, especially to electricity use. It is not time to give a thorough consideration. We're just in the middle of a conversation with the garden right now. I hope that if not now soon, next week. This is where we're going, and we're going to make a big deal of it. I want to finally say about the food security situation that we are also taking steps to build up what is called the agrienvironment schemes, so we have this thing well covered. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. At the same time, I would like to ask the minister if, in view of the circumstances in the world today, we have been able to change the law when it comes to agriculture so that we can have more cooperation and cooperation in the agricultural world. It is extremely important in a small and peripheral country that we have clear rules about how companies can work together as well as how we can get the most out of the production we have. I'd also like to wonder if it's safe, since the agriculture is looking at how important it is, that we have everything we need to run agriculture, oil and all that stuff. Also, I would like to ask if a minister at his Ministry has reviewed the general impact on the European economy of the epidemic. We know, for example. has been having problems with prices for a few years, and now it seems that the price of skin - price could rise will come up again and that human beings are smashed to pieces. Has a minister examined it in particular?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-02-86.u33	A respectable president. There are many factors that we have been discussing and reviewing. We deal daily with the agriculture and the fishing route at this time, receive information, try to deal with the challenges we are facing, and resolve the issues that are being raised. Hv. A senator asks directly whether food companies' activities have developed and there is a possibility for more intensive cooperation, etc. There has been a talk, already certain sources in Article 15. A competitive spirit that can be used if it is available to do so. Other things have been discussed, and this is the case. I also point to the fact that treatment at the council is a bill for a new competitive song where there is a possibility of responding to the wishes I know I have been living in this article. It is then the Council to deal with it if and when it comes to it. Regarding furursts, there has been a talk in the government's field which ways might be effective in this regard.
