ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u1	To answer, financial and economic ministers, foreign and development co-work ministers, educational and cultural ministers and social and child - care ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u2	President. During these days, the health system is under stress and, at the same time, we are probably dealing with the most economic downturn for 100 years. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance whether this is just the right time for the government to get more for the money that flows there, i.e. that we can be more practical there. Of course, the health system, along with social security, is the largest currency in the state. Is it not right now that we at the same time lose weight on the health system and get more money from the taxpayers by negotiating with private offices to deal with the procedures that have been waiting in many cases for months, even for years? We all know of cases where people are sent to Sweden or Denmark in private rooms at the cost of the State, which is then even multiple times, triple what would be necessary to perform such operations here at home. Now that the government needs more money and saving, and the health system is under great stress, is this not the right time to take such action?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u3	A respectable president. I believe that it is always the right time to take care of the money and believe that regardless of this year of crowning, it is generally a good way to negotiate with those who can be flexible and practical in rendering this public service, a service that is funded by public funds. These are especially some of the procedures that can be performed outside hospitals, and we certainly have some of these procedures being carried out. In recent years, I have had my shoulder and knee repaired, and this was not done in a hospital. So we certainly have many examples. To the extent that the land hospital's capacity for carrying out such projects is reduced, I think we should examine ways in which we can more rely on others who have a reduced capacity for carrying out such tasks. There's something else I think we should look at here. It may not directly lead to these procedures but to the nursing homes. The problem of the Korean hospital now is, especially, the efflux problem, unable to free people who have been cured of the hospital. In this way, the hospital's ability or vitality to receive patients who come there with crown virus will be reduced. This is very serious. At the same time, we have unacceptable components, such as. at film positions, no especially practical module, and was a complete preliminary arrangement. There is now a discussion about trying to increase the supply of space, just in cooperation with parties outside the public system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u4	President. I can't be more than happy with that answer. I think it's a lot of news. But I hope that it will see this place in government action now for days and weeks. Of course, we're discussing the budget at the council, and it's very time to take into account the ultimate policy. Minister to the budget. The health system has grown greatly in terms of government expenses year after year. But are people getting more for this growing funding? It's not good to say, at least has not increased public pleasure in terms of increased expenses. So now that need compels the government to gain more money for the money and the health system does not provide relief from the stress, hopefully we will develop a trend where we can get more money for the health - care providers, and hence the workers get better benefits and better service. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u5	A respectable president. I simply think it is very important that when we have public health systems, health insurance - we actually pay for our health insurance with the taxes - it is normal to approach the matter so that we are in force at any given time, and we should be able to collect these insurance from health institutions and others within the medical system that offer such a service. Medical insurance, then, is the middle person who makes sure that those who want to perform such service meet all the standards and other such things or relieve us of such things and are actually just transfering money for us what we already have paid. That's how I watch this system. There are, however, certain factors that we can never eliminate from the hospital. It is the whole basic service, the major operation, the central procedure in the national hospital. We are not trying to break it up. But for everything else, where we need to be more flexible and what is more repetitive, routines, there we are to look for ways to save.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u6	A respectable president. Last year, the highest score went down. Minister of Justice presents a legal case of bankruptcy, social security, biographies, and other forms of temporary sources for commercial reorganization, as it were. That matter was handled quickly and effectively, but the case of social security was to be handled in spite of unambiguous interest and widespread support. The year before, similar cases had also been blown off. It's a matter now on the Constitution. The matter is very important to balance the position of people in competitive business, that people who are divorced do not have to compete with a person. It also concerns the interests of employees, that wage thieves can't go under, and then start over and over again, as the examples prove. And this is a matter of healthy employment. These are economic resources. In discussions and reviews, there was a generally rare combination in the attitude of the labour market, but there was more doubt among some lawyers who sent in envelopes, and they found a measure of procrastination. The exchange manager was given too extensive and economist permission to place members in temporary employment bans and expressions of harmful or undefeated business practices, and it was pointed out that they would have a criminal record on the party so that he would forfeit his right to professional success and otherwise. It would be against 75th degree. The Constitution of professional freedom. Now I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance and chairman of the Independence Party: Do these views have a basis within his company, and if so, has it delayed the handling of the case here at the General Assembly? [[The president calls.]] Does the pack support this whole matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u7	A respectable president. I believe this is a good idea, since it is the minister of the Independence Party who has brought the matter before the council, that the party is of the opinion that those who are in the social security, who abuse their partner form to fram from commitments, leave behind repeatedly, be punished, it has to have consequences. But what I think at the same time is very important is these fundamental issues, such as professional freedom. We need to be careful that as soon as we say that the person who has gone bankrupt, we may have to put some wood on it, if it's been happening repeatedly, and we see some pattern in it, we don't have to go so far as to leave the feeling that business is going mischievous, something that people think is criminal, or that it's precipitating that all businesses have to do have a good deal of success and that we have to make a profit for the future. We have this arrangement, society. It's spelled out, e.g. In Germany, there is a company with limited responsibilities. In the United States it really is the same, a company with limited responsibilities. I'm not going to go out into the English and German names, but here we call it just a partner. So surprising are many when they cannot fulfill their commitments that the owner is not going to take the account, but it is all written in the legal principle and is not that it is beyond the consequences of any pattern. It's where I think the client lies, that we're able to build laws that cover the pattern of behavior that humans are taking advantage of. [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u8	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'd like to ask him about something else that's connected. It has been observed that in the past five years, the overall demand of the Member States for the lack of pay was well over a billion. The Society says that the problem is even greater. There are more and more employees who go to the union to demand pay. We're allowed to fine a high price at 600,000. Because of the remuneration of the Marine Union agreement, it was asked by the remuneration of this kind to put into a collective agreement with the 2018-52019 Living Association. As a result, the government promised that such laws would be passed in Icelandic legislation in its declaration: Government support of biographies. [[The president calls.]] It still does not exasperate merely in spite of repeated reminders, and now I want to ask the highest. Minister for Exquisitions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u9	A respectable president. This is a matter prepared at the Department of Social Affairs. I don't know any better than there was a conversation between the labour market members about the implementation of it. Sadly, though, there has been no solid agreement on the export. This is on the one hand, the requirement for a 50% stress on the unrewarded salary or the pay that was observed in the face of injustice. The question we are about to address is how we can set priorities for the various demands that may be presented in this way. The general rule is that a person should pay by means of a tow of what he owes. This may then have to do with penalties if they have deliberate, e.g. in some structured way, holding men in a delusion of their rights, etc. It's a bit complicated. Of course, it would have been best if the workers had agreed on this. But I was at a meeting last night on this subject, and it's certainly on schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u10	President. Last assembly, along with eight other members of the welfare committee, I requested a state accountant's report for a administrative review of the activities of the State's Insurance Agency. A report by request is presented, with permission of the president: ▪ Those who accept compensation from government insurance agencies are often in the most commercial groups in society. The pension they receive from a insurance institution is usually the only or the main reason in their limited income. It is now clear from a report by a government accountant, which was taken up from a management and monitoring committee yesterday that the U.S. National Relations Centre's standards are not secure and their rights do not seem to be respected. The report includes the following: that cases are not carefully examined before making a decision, and they lack guidance for people who can be asked for a folddown or a recalculation. 90% of pension workers receive the wrong payment, which can be enormously burdensome for pension workers who have no other income and who have to rely entirely on these payments, though they are, of course, always adjusted afterwards. There is a great lack of information sharing and the initiative of the National Relations Agency to ensure clients understand their rights. Clearly, the social security system is crooked and complicated for those who have to calculate the benefits, much less for those who have to rely on them in order to draw forward to life. It's inaccessible. It is quite clear from the reading of this report that the emphasis on social security within the Ministry is highest. There are many things to be improved by a minister who is shamefully small. I think it's important to find out that there's a minister's responsibility, not an insurance agency, that I understand is being fired at this moment and needs support and support. One example of many is years waiting for an overall review of a social security law, but nothing goes wrong with that work, as per the Minister's Constitution. President. It is therefore urgent to ask the highest question. Ministers why his social security system is in such short priority. I'm going to the top. Minister to attack any real action? Will a minister place some man - made and funding on the vast action required by the State accountant?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. As the senator entered, I welcome the assessment of The State Review and reminds you that representatives of all political parties came to this. I said at the time that it was extremely important, very positive to get a state reexamination to see what improvements could be done there. As the senator mentioned, there are comments that can be taken. We will go in it and are preparing it. It may be possible to film, if we take what we have allowed to recalculate, improve things, including in public relations, including with the pension system and the tax. You can move them more into digital shapes. This is of utmost importance, since communication between them can reduce accounts. There's been a step in that direction. We can see that the number of recalculations has been rising from year to year. So something has been done in these matters so that it can be maintained. But we'll take the report to heart, and we're doing it. And in what way? We can respond to it in cooperation with a insurance agency. As for the global re-examination of the social security system, we've been talking about it. This is one of the terms of last spring Congress, but it has not been agreed with an associate. Therefore, the goal has been to do so in my own steps. The steps that were to take too large have been found to be similar to what was done for the elderly of the day. That's why we've been preparing for changes in my steps. Although it's not at this fall council now, I told a health committee yesterday that there might be some changes that would enter the spring council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u12	President. I'm here trying to restrain myself and to be as objective as possible, but I'm a little tired of these promises from the highest. Minister, for he is extremely diligent in praising gold and green forests, but nothing happens. It is obvious from the Ministry's response to the report that the problem is known within the Ministry. I don't realize whether it's worse for a social minister to realize the extent to which the public insurance system has come and has chosen to do nothing about it for the three years that he has been in power. What's worse? A minister may not have a year to show just a little interest in this class. He directly admits in the report that this tremendous importance of the seminaries, the survival of tens of thousands of Icelanders and 17% of all government expenditures are in the hands of two members of the Ministry, two employees who are doing other work together. [[The president calls.]] That's all the emphasis a minister thinks this tribe deserves. Is it really possible that the patience of the elderly and the disability pensioner is long gone? [[The president calls.]] I'm asking you, are you going to put some men, more staff, in reviewing this group? [[The president calls.]] Is a minister serious about bringing some positive changes before this council is over? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u13	A respectable president. Retrospectives to many aspects are not limited to the fundamental changes in the social security system. They also turn to the system changes that can be made, as I said before, in relationships between institutions in order to destroy grey areas and other areas. That's what we've been working on, and I went over it in a previous answer that we had seen some positive changes in it. We have also been working on changes that have come in steps in reducing the decline and other changes have been made here. So it is totally wrong that this was not being done within the Ministry of the Ministry during the period of that government. But how good it is to receive this report. I supported it greatly in my day and explained to the welfare committee that it was important to have it because the changes would have to be more progressive. We have funds inside now, including. to improve the computer systems and equipment provided by an insurance agency so that we have been taking steps in this environment. [[The president calls.]] It's just wrong that it hasn't been done. But you can always do better than that. This report of the Kingdom Review is a very good entry into that work, and we will take it seriously. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u14	Mr. President. Tolls, needs, and impacts are classic topics and debates in national relationships and in discussions about individual sectors, especially in the context of agriculture and its competitiveness, and are always referred to as to customs protection in this context. Here consumer interests are being treated for low prices and good products and for the interests of those who produce domestic products. International developments have long been on the verge of reducing customs and other forms of communication. My opinion is strongly that it's the right course. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure that the work environment and the establishment of national production are in line with international competition. As to this, I think most people agree, especially when it comes to Icelandic agriculture. There you need to clean up and make great adjustments to the system under which you have worked. On the other hand, Iceland is involved in a number of international business contracts, including business customs. Such agreements, such as others, should be thoroughly respected and carried out without compromise. That's the national duties of the party that the state must care for in its own way. In-house and importers must follow local regulations and authorities to advise that this is done. Mr. President. The media have recently discussed the customs contracts of Iceland and the EU on agricultural products. It has stated that there are limits to the rules that apply, causing more customs to be introduced than was agreed on and caused by Icelandic agriculture. So I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether he has been made aware of this misconduct, the extent, when it has been done, and what measures have been taken to prevent such an offense.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u15	A respectable president. First only in general on customs. What a joy it was here a few years ago when we took up a new course in this group of languages that meant that we canceled all the goods we had been living here for decades other than alcohol, tobacco, automobiles, and some accessories! But tolls, tolls. In the customs, Iceland has been able to work in international cooperation, both in two-way contracts and in international agreements, to develop an enormous amount of tax freedom in trade with the country. In this context, customs freedom in Iceland is far beyond that in the European Union. If you look at the European Union as one unit and the rest of the world as those outside the European Union's customs walls, that wall is much higher than we Iceland has ever built. It's been measured this way about. 27% i.e. There's a 27% tax freedom there, but in Iceland there's 90%. Regarding tips that have shown that there could be better sorting, or that there would be a need to create new toll classes and respond to indications that people are misclassing imported products, we have started a special examination. We've both been running specific issues for the unique import species, and in this case cheeses may be mentioned separately. Then I've just started a general review of these matters, indicating that there's a point that we need to go further into the stitches and that's what I'll have done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers that may not have been as accurate as I would have chosen, but let it be. I'd like to redirect that question to the highest level. Secretary of finance. It is concerned that in the public field, this view has been expressed by government leaders, at least. One, topv. Advisory, that the correct response to this position, which does not appear to be fully explored or investigated, is to cancel a toll agreement with the European Union. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Has the government been approached to cancel this agreement? At the same time, I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party whether it is possible for the Independence Party to give up this customs agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u17	A respectable president. If my first answer wasn't clear enough, I just want to give it a little bit. We at the Ministry of Economics are occasionally given tips on situations that need to be considered. We have had such cases checked one by one. An example of this was the case with the changes in customs. Since then we have received a general indication that EU figures on exports from the European Union to Iceland are different from our own import figures. I have had this in a special opinion, indicating that these numbers differ. We need to dig deeper into it in order to understand it better, and that's what I'll have done. I believe it is quite clear that our plans to use the European Community's customs contract have not been followed by the export of Iceland and the change that has taken place in the European Union that the British came out of the European Union call for some reaction. At this moment, no decision has been made to cancel this contract on our part. [[The president calls.]] I think that it should be much better to talk about trying to renegotiate and try to respond to what has been changed from the fact that the contract was made. [[The president calls.]] But at this point, it is mere informal consultation with all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u18	A respectable president. This week's talk went to the top. Prime Minister for bill to legalize the sex situation. Great deal. Then the prime minister also recommended a bill to legalize the sexual autonomy law. An article on some of the articles on the bill says that it is correct. ... withauthority of the President's permission: In cases where foreskin surgery is typical, and as such actions may be carried out or planned for religious or cultural reasons, extravasation and the regulations of the bill do not affect whether such procedures are carried out or allowed. V.E.G. The prime minister also said that if this was to be in the bill, it would have to be a special law on what would ban such action. Happily, we have made sure that women's sexual organs are under ban here for religious reasons. V.E.G. Minister of Social Affairs will provide a child protection bill in the fall. There will be protection for children, i.e. that boys will be protected from being subjected to religious predestination? And if not, why not? Has the highest. Children's Minister of Affairs objected to what is stated in Article 1. a bill to legalize a change in sexual autonomy, this violence against boys? This is the first time the license is set up for this operation. I'm asking, is it the highest? Minister of child care for that kind of thing? What will he do about these matters in order to protect all children?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. In the beginning, I would like to say that I was not present for the discussion. As a witnesser, a speaker did not hear a talk at any time. The senator, or the minister's talk of the matter, which spoke to these capitals earlier this week. Of course, the matter has been very much discussed, but it does not directly enter the social and child - care minister's table. Hv. A senator testifies that large bills in the affairs of children will be put forth on autumn days, including those of the United States. Reviewed child protection laws and large legislation on integrated paediatric services as well as four other major legal bills. They are simply still employed, and they are somewhat unusual in the way they are carried out because they are thoroughly agreed with representatives of all political groups and representatives of all recruitments and with the European Union. I know this is one of the things that have come up with that job, but it's not clear what smells like it. As to the case recommended by the prime minister, I would like to say that it has come to the council with the government's backing, with the support of the members of the administration. They may make some changes during the council, but it is established by the government's support. The person standing here is in the government, supporting the bill being presented. True, that may change here during the council, and I have the right to make my decision to make the matter final in my vote. As I say, this case is supported by all the governments and including the ones listed here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Social Affairs for the Answer and sincerely hope that this will not be taken out in these children's openings. I also sincerely hope that the law of allowing these actions, just allowing them to be allowed in this stylus of Article 1. The bill, they're taking it back. But there's one thing that's completely incomprehensible: Why on earth is this case going to a full-scale educational committee instead of a welfare committee? It's a premeditated welfare committee, and I'm asking, "Who's in charge of it? Isn't that unnatural? I'm just saying for my part that we're here every once in a while to sound equality, equality, equality. Is that just for some people? Is that just some of them? Does that not mean everything, especially to children? Or are boys divorced there?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u21	A respectable president. Thank you again for the senator. It's hard for the Minister of Social Affairs to answer the question of why the matter of the other Ministers is taking the lead in committees at the council. Thus it is recommended that each minister representing the council agree on the outcome of the committee. Thereafter, it is up to the council to decide if they want to make changes. In this case it is likely that the case would be requested to go to the General and Education Committee, which is finally in the authority of the Council to which it is called. We have every reason to believe that because I received a whip from my mouth, there are representatives of all committees, committees, or hearing agents. Senator. It should not be the end of the situation, and there can be a call for cooperation with other committees or such. But this, I think, is something the senator must direct to the council or its administration. I don't have any answers to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u22	President. I present here an extremely positive and important matter, which the Central Party is all about. In fact, the case is reinvented. It was urgent when it was moved here last year, but it is now, and we see so much the need for government management and greater social value development, greater opportunities for a business to start a business or increase people's population, and hopefully better ideals. Now the need is greater than she has been for a long time, so I hope that this case is getting a quick payment at the council. It's a pact proposal for a timed operation program on simple regulations. The proposal itself reads, with President's permission: ▪ The General concluded that a prime minister would be preconceived by the government to establish a time - to - date plan for a simple rule. At work, it will be in line with the aim of at least the Commission's status report on official monitoring rules on a simple current protocol from September 2014 as well as its specific and targeted systems. Prime Minister introduces the Council of Action at the spring Summit of 2021.◯ - And later, you can't. It may take some time to prepare this, but fortunately, I've had a lot of preparatory work to do as I'll be doing afterwards. This is part of our struggle with the booth, since the booth is likely to grow in proportion to the regular work and expenses, the cost of doing so in the same way. But not only the government's costs but also the entire community's cost of dealing with the booth, which often makes it difficult to attack new jobs and to run businesses immediately and if they have been able to get started. It also makes it difficult for individuals and companies, my firm in particular, to monitor their legal status and to realize the legalities. It is often said that when laws become so complex that the public does not understand them without help, people are in trouble. Law must be clear, and it must be understandable, but legislation has grown uncontrollably, so to speak, and the hall is to be included. This is therefore a matter of great importance to the country's standard of living, to the state of the state's funds and to the forward development of employment in this country. But this is also of utmost importance to people's everyday lives, for in far too many cases, people experience virtually a secular role when it is supposed to be the opposite. It is the State, the government's duty to service the public, but unfortunately, evolution has been in a different direction. It's complicated to be alive, must say. Thus, very important and urgent matters are addressed. This will have an enormous and positive effect, if it's approved. But I'm pointing out, as it turned out, when I read the decree itself, that we'll leave the government to bring the wire into this council. This is in order to increase the likelihood that the case will continue because we know from experience that the government always wants to settle and accept matters from itself rather than from others. The government can own this, we bring it as a gift, and I think it could help her a lot in the coming elections if these actions were to be attacked. They ask the highest. President I.V.: Why is the Central Party helping the government? Is that wise? But we simply think it's important that it doesn't matter who brings it up eventually, it's urgent that this work be done. I only quote myself, by permission of the President, from the introduction of this case last year. Then I said that if this case would be accepted and adopted according to what was suggested, it would have an enormous and positive effect, e.g. on social and economic issues, whether it was agriculture, industry, tourism, fishing or other, a major impact on the quality of life in the country and its general life in Iceland, on the income and management of the state, on Iceland's competitiveness toward other countries, even on housing, health, and so on. This would be a case that could have a profound and positive effect on most areas of society and would be urgent. That's what I said over a year ago, and now it's not only urgent but it's absolutely necessary to deal with the recent developments but also the conditions we're dealing with. As I mentioned in the beginning, a great deal of preparatory work has been done. In the government of then Annuity and Independence Party, in 2013 in 2016, this emphasis was on ours. Work began right away in 2013 to cope with the booth, to reduce the booth, to reduce the order of action, and even to recover. in a very thought - provoking and extensive paper, and in a guide's manual, a guide designed to be used by government agencies to save and provide better services at the same time. Unfortunately, this manual seems to have gone into a drawer or under a chair in many places, but this work will be useful now as well as a very detailed project on action programmes to reduce a regular work published in 2014. It was all started, set in place, but unfortunately it has not been carried out as it should in the past few years. In fact, the current government has proclaimed that it wants to reduce its order and of 180 affairs of the government during this council are three issues, three prime products, designed specifically for simple regulations, two for tourism and industrial ministers and one for marine and agricultural ministers. The previous year, a similar case was passed and adopted, but it is primarily about cleaning up the document vault, so to speak, and removing laws that are not currently active, which are no longer relevant because they take to form steps that have been solved, are no longer applicable. But there is a need to go far beyond this. They need to deal with the system that is active, which is building a stone in the way of people and businesses in the country and making it difficult for people to do things, whether in their daily lives or in the start of a business and employing people and making valuables. I'm not going to belittle the government's cleaning up and throwing out what's fallen. But it takes much more to come if we are to cope with the uncontrolled growth of the stall. Again, I will be able to quote myself briefly from last year on, with the permission of a president: ▪ On my journeys through the country during the summer, I visited many companies and met many people. - It was when people could still be seen and stopped in companies, and hopefully they'll be back soon. The majority of cases, whether they ran a business or were just trying to live their lives, what the system, the booth, had become a burden in Iceland and made it difficult for people in all possible areas. It was to make up the country that those who wanted to make a move, wanted to build something up in their area, wanted to create jobs for others, and to create new values - which, of course, is the most important thing in the community, that humans have the opportunity to do such things throughout the country - could all obstacles. The government, the State, was thinking of these people far more than cutting them down by means of such needs and important tasks. This needs to be changed, turned around, so that the state experiences that it plays a service to the public in the country, not the other way around. If we do so, we will replace a vast array of valuable things and will make life simpler and more enjoyable for the entire public. This was a year ago, and now the need is even greater, and the effect will be even more important than ever before. Of course, there is no obligation that the government will deliver this at the last minute. On the contrary, I hope they will return this as soon as possible, to the point of preparation as I mentioned. This will mean a lot of money for the Kingdom, and now, when we're dealing with the biggest down cycle for 100 years, it's probably not gonna help. The growth of the booth and the overgrowth of regulations, for example, includes a very real cost for state funds and substantial costs, sharing of money that would be better replaced, not to mention what it reduces valuable creation, since people trust to start companies, hire people at work, etc. A person's time for valuable things is also appreciated. We sometimes talk about the importance of giving people more time to spend time with their families and to do interesting and beneficial things for their families, and this will also have a bearing on them. If people don't have to spend whole days working with the blunder, they'll have more free time and be happier, too, that this will have a widespread impact on society, on their status in every way, on public, on business, and on government funds. Mr. President. This is certainly a timely matter, and it has been for a long time. But now there is a great need for the government to work hard, hurrying to complete this assignment. She can bring it up here and be sure our support will be accompanied by this. It would be a great cause for rejoicing for the public and, as I mentioned, could be useful to the government when it comes to elections. But it'll just have to have it. This is the important thing. We need to keep in mind that the general population in the country above everything, so we put this forth with the sincere hope that the government is at least Ready to take over and process this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. Gunnlaugsson But other members of the Central Party are also at work. I just want to come in on a few things. It is important, especially today, when the economy and our professional life come in circles to keep people working, to keep society going, to make it easier for people to simplify their business environment so that they can establish a business and, despite all the circumstances, they will be motivated to put such a test into practice instead of having to walk between Heródes and Pílatus, between all kinds of institutions and parties, to get permission for the other and the other things. It needs to be simple. We need to simplify and encourage individuals and companies to go into business projects and stocks. And talking about projects that need special attention to shorten and simplify, or make it easier, and bring relief to those who are concerned about life. Today, big and small projects need to be much simpler than they are today. Too much time goes on and on and on, and something like that. By doing so, I'm not saying that there's an environmental requirement and some of that. You just have to make it work a lot faster than it does. It's, for example. can be done by simplifying the entire process and simplifying the system. It is also important for a person to simplify all the rules that make costs for those who start a business or go into some business or enterprise. For example, the cost of getting an idea and implementing it may be enormous, and it requires simplifying the entire system. In a paper with the Parliament's odor proposal, the labour market stakes noted that the government is implementing EEA regulations in a way too burdensome for the public. In fact, the State's authority should set this goal, and have it as a written rule, that these regulations are introduced by as simple, as obvious, and as low as possible, that it should be the rule. I would also like to mention that it is okay for government ministers to focus on cleaning up their storage places and reducing unnecessary laws or regulations, not having anything to do, no activity or purpose. But that in itself is not a simple rule. The rules and regulations need to be coordinated, and all the processes that have to be dealt with need to be cut off when dealing with the system. Mr. President. I'd also like to mention it in this relationship, because it may indirectly relate to that, that this might follow a certain practical approach. I'm not talking about if a simple rule could lead men to unite organizations and unite projects with the government. If so, it may help to round up the expenses of a government fund. I would like to point out that there may also be a great opportunity for the State to limit government privileges. It can, for example, be used. Treated together with extending the time staff can work for the state, as indicated by this council hall, e.g. for 73 years in some cases where workers are full of energy, where the tasks are like this and where the active force is needed. In many lands, and in the vast majority of cases, most people do not want to work much longer than is laid down in the law. The goal is to be to do most of the work that is released, according to the question I made here. Of course, I realize that not all jobs can be avoided. I'm not that crazy to think so. But there is clearly something that can be summed up or that can reduce the number of retrospects. I'd like to point out that according to an answer I received from the highest level. Financial and economic ministers of the last council will reach 726 government officials at 70 years of age until 2022. There's billions on the line. But I reiterate that I'm not saying that there is no need for any of the jobs involved. Mr. President. The important thing is that there is a Congress conclusion that should be motivated by government, for the present government, to board the sleeves and simple rules, not to be reinvented, but, as proposed in the Congress resolutions, that the prime minister is preconceiving and implementing a plan on how we are going to simplify our regulations. That's very burdensome. They are a number of individuals and representatives of companies who have complained, certainly not just with members of the Central Party, but with members of most other categories, over what the regular work in Iceland is burdensome for the ideas and activities they want to set up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u24	Mr. President. I am a member of this fine case in which governments will be assigned to implement a simple rule plan. It's called in many parts of society, people complain that there's a complicated and difficult way to go in various projects and to attend services from the government and localities, the system as it's called one name, so I'm celebrating this proposal very much, so I'm a diplomat on it, and I'm going to put a few words in the package on the subject. The stall's growth seems out of control and has been so long, even if governments have the goal, one government after another, to prevent that from happening. Even if the government is on its agenda and aim to do this, it usually grows completely out of control, and we have seen it many times, even in recession. What can be done? A government or a committee cannot be formed without its overcrowding. They need offices and directors. The manager needs an assistant, both of them need some office clerk to answer the phone and watch the files and organize them into folders. Various equipment, rent, or purchase facilities need to be purchased, and soon a lot of employees have already arrived. We've seen it happen, and there's a lot of fun and famous examples. Something that is today's drawer has become a three - story institution later on. How sad it is, and often these are not serving at all the intended purpose of public service! I've been worried about this for a long time. I've been working in the administration board for 30 years, and I've had this experience even though my agency has not grown as long as I was working there, the county office in the Western Islands. I think the staff went down a year ago. I don't have numbers in my head about that exactly, but I think they dropped pretty much in the 16 years I had that job. Whether it's a compliment or a good time, I don't know but at least She did not grow there, and that is something I have also spoken about. The rural population tends to shrink and contract and be laid down because there is some kind of attraction in the capital. The institutions are established here and here they will grow out of control. It is at the opposite end of the country, and there it is shrinking and laid down. To this end, there is an eternal fight. This may be related to other factors, such as The rural and urban voting rights, here's the trend, the job prospects are higher. The whole board is here. It's all in the capital area. All you have to do is drive five minutes, they've already met a senator or a minister. That's not why we're saying hello in the country. I've sometimes given up my idea that the best geographic policy would, of course, be simply moving the Ministry to the country. No pain can be done over long periods of adjustment. I'm not talking about the whole department. I'm talking about maybe one or two at the beginning of the infrastructure, like... In Akureyri. It's all built up and it's a powerful control system, so I think the Akureyri could handle two or three of the smaller types of government, which makes it, Mr. President, more and less the government is becoming electronic. Telephones and computers communicate, letters communicate electronically, even now they can't even start a problem if an electronic request or request comes along. You can't find the case. It's gone, it can't be found. That is why it would be even more easy today than maybe ten years ago, and this, of course, is the only proper civilisation, moving the Ministry to the country. Of course, the Ministry is that the whole country's service, not just its capital. This close to the legislation of legislatures and higher level of the courts, this presence here in the capital, this small city on an international scale, is harmful to me. They get together at the same parties, they drink and they agree. This is where things happen, the opinions are formed, and people go like a bunch of rocks off a cliff, like the last collapse. They all agreed, at all the parties. No matter how many people were held, they were always the same people who were talking to each other. I think it would be good for this nation to have more government exported to shore, even for the nation's discussion. I think it might be a good idea for us here at the council to think about this from other friends, but we've been doing this so far. I was going to talk about the booth, but I may have been using other psalms, but no matter what happens, if you start a new office, an institution, a committee, a counsel, a command, or a fund, you have to build around it some sort of booth, little at first, but it grows very fast. We've seen it, I've been here for three years, and there's something new that's been happening all the time. It is not uncommon for office or organization to be laid down or united. But it does. I was once an employee who was laid down, and I may be grateful that I suggested that the State's Police School be laid down and therefore laid down myself, so I am not really biased in this matter. But I think we should be working rather to unite organizations, and especially I have looked to one part in that goal, the government's administration in the country. I've always been irritated by her disorganized behavior. There are many institutions that usually have headquarters in Reykjavík, the EEA, the Work Programme and the Work Programme, e.g., and this is an endless series of institutions covering the whole country. They have to do business in the country, answer something, and check something, and often send ambassadors to the country. I often saw it when I was in the Western Islands, where perhaps on one day three, four automobiles, marked in Reykjavík as institutions. Usually, they were driving to do some small business. It's a waste, of course. At the time, I believed that the county office, which was then the sheriff's office, would also be to take it to heart, doing this business while they were not on a much more professional foundation, i.e. that it would take expertise to fulfill, perhaps in most cases. You can save a lot of money, so I'm really happy with this proposal. I've got a lot more to say. I see time is up. I was going to talk about buildings, what was the need for them today. Maybe I'll come back up here if I get the chance, to talk about buildings. I think they need to be viewed a little different from that of the day, and then I'm going to talk about the government and the minister as well. I'll make it wait if I get back in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u25	A respectable president. I'm going to thank you. The members of the Central Party for providing this wonderful council plan. You see, I always want to speak for the simple act of order, and that's very important. For jobs, it is important that they can follow simple, clear rules and simple and clear working environments. It's our job in here to make sure it is, and I agree with it. We independents have done a great deal of traveling around the country before the Korean virus, and what people say to us there, especially the employers of my company, is a bit: stop getting in our way, leave us alone, and we'll save this ourselves. Of course, there are huge messages, and we need to take them to heart. It's also very prominent when you talk to a company, perhaps especially those on the larger side, how important the EEA contract is for these companies, and how much they stress that we bring in that rule, especially companies in the export. They want to be in the same place as this huge market of the EEA market. But I also have to say, a respectable president, that I feel a bit hollow when it is difficult to do so. The members of the Central Party come up here and talk about the simple order and bring such stolen feathers as the dove. When it comes to discussing the matters at a council hall that actually concern it, to make up organizations or simple rules, it is said: Abbabb, no, this doesn't quite work. I don't have a detailed analysis of what this is, but this is the way I quickly remember to form the competitive legislation and bill of changes in cab cars driving, where it's talking about moving the arrangement to the same level as it does in Europe and just simple the rule around it. But no, no. It was a law that touched the resuscitation of used cars. There, members of the Central Party, or senator, had very strong views that this should not be done. I also remember that when these halls were discussing uniting the customs and the government tax manager in the office of the taxet, some men stood up and said, "No, this is not quite good enough. Food fund, when two funds were being joined together. No, no, that wasn't good enough. So I don't know, to some extent, it's empty. I'd love to see it. The members of the Central Party with the rest of us when it comes to such matters. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigmundur of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson made it clear that there was just a few prime signs, at least according to the Minister's Constitution in this winter, and I certainly hope that we can all be together when it comes to the real simplicity of order. This body of Congress I can very well support, i.e. making a timed schedule for a simple rule plan. In fact, it is suggested that there should be a standard report on a simple, current rule of action made by a counseling committee on official monitoring procedures. Of course, it is from the time when there is still time. paritaprevir Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, who was in the Ministry of Presidency, or who had some way of managing that work, may well be doing one thing. But the main thing is that we should ensure that the environment in which we live both companies and individuals in this country is, first of all, very clear and simple. Here we are to create a good environment for people, pioneers, and businesses to use their talents, their development, and the valuable things that benefit us all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u26	A respectable president. We'll deal with the Independence Party system after all. The present system is the result of the administration of the Independence Party in recent decades. Pirates and I have provided a number of regulations for monographies, such as about the independence of the church. There independents are trying to scratch the tray and have some decades of equipment that can't be seen at the end. There are some changes to the church's routines have just been made, but the current arrangement is still being established at least 15 years of age, which violates public financial law, and other interesting things. We've endured social security travel in, I don't know how much time, and then there comes a minister of finance, who has had the power to change it over the last many years as a member of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and says that there has to be some punishments and has some consequences for such an act. Still, something doesn't happen. I'm happy to accept this council proposal and just say, "More like that." I look forward to a time when the Independence Party begins to think a little more carefully about a simple rule for people in general rather than a simple rule of order so that some business owners can continue their social security.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for mentioning that we live in a system of Independence Party. We live in this awe - inspiring country where we have it quite good, where we enjoy one of the world's greatest quality of life, perhaps just because this country has made a wise policy in this country from independence. Happily, the Independence Party has been in the government and has set its mark on policy in this country. I think it's a big part of the reason that we live as well as we do today, although there is, of course, much more to be done. I think we're gonna do what we're gonna do. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear can agree that it is a simple rule. I remember, for example. as good as a bill that came from the Piranha. I thought it was a simple rule, but I guess. Congress officials would not view this as an arrangement in the library. Either way, I remember it was a very good bill. It also needs to be cleaned up regularly in the collection of laws. There are always good things to be done. It often helps to simplify your life when you are ready to clean up. Hv. A senator mentioned the social security, and we know that this is a problem. But we also know that the solution is not overly simple. We've all been trying to stop what we call a frequent social security travel. But I think we're gonna do what we're gonna do. A senator will also agree on the importance of innovation and that there will be a series of pioneers. Even if you run into a business that you're running short of, it's not supposed to be a fairy shame and it means you can't try again. At least I'm on that point. I want to build up such a community that it is an opportunity to continue even if something has failed. That is what we have been defending when we have protected this arrangement, which is parting and its benefits, although it may also have certain defects. [[The president calls.]] There is something that we need to work with and try to prevent.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u28	A respectable president. Piratar and I have contributed at least the first steps in order to eliminate the social security number by opening up information, opening access to annual accounts, shareholder file, and company record so that people can consult them for business purposes. That's key. We are now receiving increased support to find out who a real owner is. It has passed through the government, through certain inductions, after an international revelation e.g. About the Panamas and the like. It shows how important it is to know who the real owner of each company is. So when individual persons are out in town, local or local, choosing to do business with someone, they can see what their business story is, whether or not they take advantage of the government's problems, sweeping their resources just before a company goes into bankruptcy, etc. or if he is healthy and good at leaving behind a business that is not successful and will continue to make improvements in innovation. This is the system that we have prevented from prospering by having limited access to this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In fact, he entered one matter, the real owners, which in many respects is very good. I agree with it. A senator said here, that it is only natural for people in business to get information about who are involved and who are behind them. But because we're talking about simple regulations, we can't exactly say that the rule we made around the real owners is simple, and we were rightly forced by the international community, by the famous FAFF Committee. It's more of a booth that comes with real owners. I believe most members of Congress have, for example. being able to feel that banking agencies call us to update some question, for of course we are extremely dangerous for political activity and therefore some information must be kept inside our bank about us. I think that's, for example. A very bad example in this urgent discussion, for it is to interfere rather with the rule and to make it more difficult for those who work. But it's good that we do what we do. A senator can agree on the importance of simplifying a rule. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u30	Mr. President. I'll start by saying thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, for a very good review of a very important matter, but I am one of its partners. I might want to start with that in the beginning, Mr. President, to enter that speech as a matter of course. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir moved here, and a man must make comments about many things she said in her talk. She commended this suggestion, but she also said that the Central Party's idea of simple works is empty. I'd like to object, and we'll just see in this suggestion that it's the Central Party that stands out as a surprise to the careful proposal for a simple rule. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir also mentioned that this was a stolen feather when the middle tribe was talking about shrinking the booth. However, this is once so that everyone knows that this term or language, which was replaced by the independent people, has become a complete misjudgment on the part of the Independence Party. It's just that it has to say exactly as it is, and it's kind of a laughing matter because it has truly grown in the days of the Independence Party. Not long since government jobs in the public sector had increased more than in the private sector. All of this is on the Independence Party watch, so they say. I agree that simplifying your routine is important for our professional and individual life. But I also acted on the fact that this is a particular social security number. It is a classic example of how the Independence Party has failed and this government taking on a serious matter. Hv. paritaprevir But if Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir doesn't understand it completely when she connects it to innovation, she wants to be careful about them because of innovation. Socially, the lesion that it is in our community and costs a substantial amount of money, is used in employment sectors with few innovations. They are in a certain business, and they don't give up their fees, and they don't divorce employees, and they run out of business, and they start a new social security number in the same sector. It's not right to link it to innovation like a whale. A senator did earlier. I would like to mention another group in which the Independence Party has failed completely to simplify the rules that should apply to the important issues that have been significant in the recent media discussion, which are the issues of the trustees. It has been shown that the structure is in such a way that applying for international protection is so intense that it costs a wealth of money, except for the mismanagement of those who apply for international protection. Why is it impossible for us to follow the same path, as it was for e.g. Norway, and do these applications over 48 hours, simplifying the work? This is a classic case in which the Independence Party has failed. He's had this group in his possession for years, and at the same time, the cost is growing, and the system becomes increasingly complex and more difficult to deal with, so to speak. I just wanted to come in, Mr. President, the importance of the lawgiver and professional life working together in simplifying the principle because it really matters. We can see in many areas how difficult it is for the common people when the system is complex and hovered. I want, for example. Consider the construction sector and the building structure in this regard. There, the system is very hovered, and many are making it difficult for us to build up buildings, e.g. individuals who intend to build houses for themselves, summer houses, or such. They need a building manager, and the same requirements are set for a small summer house for which a person will build and for one who is building an entire apartment building, the same requirements for a building manager. If the person has e.g. A few years and a desire to build his own vacation house in a calm manner, he constantly has to pay bail to the builder. That's a lot of money when people may want to do it at their own pace at any age and always have to pay for it. That's one example I'll take on a case that needs simplifying. I'd like to say as far as the agricultural sector is concerned, there are regulations that might be simple and thus save costs for public and farmers. Is there anything normal about that, e.g. that, already, a slaughterhouse that a person has come up in the South with great effort, and that he needs to get veterinarians from Akureyri south to take it out? This includes costs for the local public agency, expenses for travel, money for the day, and so forth, and then the person who has put up this slaughter and this operation needs to work very hard to pay their expenses. These are the facts I know. It's not always possible to deal with things that are relevant to individuals and businesses. I'd also like to introduce it only at the end of the motion that there is a discussion of the introduction to European rules and regulations due to the involvement of Iceland in cooperation with the European Economic Area. It points out that in recent years labour market stakeholders were industrialized to point out that the government's implementation of EU types in a more burdensome way for the general public and economic lives in the country than is necessary. This is a very interesting point because this has truly cost the people of the country a lot of money. I mention especially when here was an in-depth program where the energy companies were divided into sales and distribution. There were special agreements with certain parts of the country where electricity was turned down to those without heating. These special contracts were all banned by this Regulation in the European Union. There was no attempt on the part of the Icelandic government to obtain an exception to the granting of electricity to house heating in this way. This resulted in significant costs for the individuals involved, and then government funds had to start taking subsidies that have resulted in considerable cost to the money of the estate. It would have been possible to receive an exception from this particular aspect of the implementation of the principle, but the government was not fully uplifted. I'd also like to introduce only another factor that concerns simple regulations and is very important to review, but it's about legal registration. Today, there are quite individuals who live in completed vacation homes, which are almost actum but who are not allowed to register them as their home. This results in a lot of frustration for individuals, older people who do not receive household chores, etc. There is indeed a need to simplify this and to carefully review it, and there are many things to do, Mr. President. And in these days, when the government's balance has never been so great for 100 years, as we have seen, this is truly a necessary and important suggestion. As I mentioned and mentioned, there are many costs that result from having it so complex, as it turns out, to be a witness to a government fund, and there is something we simply cannot afford in this situation. I'd like to talk about it in the end. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir said that the Central Party resisted a simple account of driving a cab and moving it closer to Europe. There are valid reasons why we have tenants in this matter. This is simply because we live in very different circumstances than in major European cities. [[The president calls.]] There are only 350,000 people here, and if this is the way to weigh cab drivers, the legs are being cut off. 600 families who work for a living. [[The president calls.]] I'll mention it here at the end because it's a very important matter, Mr. President, and secondly, I hope this proposal gets good publicity and shoots. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u31	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u32	A respectable president. I come up here to express support for the main objective of this synonym. It is important that we go as a community to a simple rule, and this has been discussed in the past. I'm not necessarily to criticize the fact that it was done, but much rather that the government was too little to have followed a further noble goal, to simplify a rule. It is important that Icelandic companies, small and mediumsized, compete and use their time in what they do best, do the role of the company rather than pursue the system as such and spend a lot of time in it. Am I calling for an unsupervised environment? Of course not! This proposal goes well with me, and I give support to the main goals, as I said. I hope, however, that the Central Party is not going to, in a paper with the proposal, to start teaching the European Economic Areas, the EEA Convention, about the complex principle, which, in my opinion, is at home. More often than not, we have seen the governments of an independent party, a forwarding party, and the left government of their time go beyond the European Union's directives. If they're going to say so in this suggestion that we're part of the European Economic Area to blame, I'd like to object. I stress: I agree that we should put in time - I would rather say time set and apestics - a plan of simple regulations, but I'd rather you would like to see that the rule we've got through the European economy has helped much more to increase transparency and support the little man much more than the big one. We see it with the requirements for increased transparency and clear and clear competition that we would not have received if we had not been under that very hat. So consumers and especially SMEs have, in my opinion, benefited from our being in the EEA. I'm not saying that it's all faultless, as it is, but I would like to point out that I feel that it reduces a little bit in this process that the Central Party is going to go a little extra hard to point out the European Union and the important international cooperation that we are participating in through the EEA Convention. You see, the suggestion itself is so fine, and I want to express my support. It will be interesting to see who's going to be with the Committee, and I hope we have an opportunity to discuss this matter further. I'm not going to go through the theory of which classes are the most responsible because we have a complex system, and nothing too accessible. But this is a suggestion where it is tried to be settled, so I would like to have more time to discuss it later in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u33	Mr. President. I would mention a few more things that did not give time to mention in my first talk. I think this is an interesting subject, how we deal with the so-called booth, how we simplify things, how we simplify rules and conduct, and how we try to make good use of public funds, public tax and corporate resources, as best you can. Of course, the requirement for the government should be made at any given time that the tax money, the local tax, is spent as wisely as possible. We must always be alert to these things, always. First of all, I'm going to talk a little bit about buildings. I remember a time when the University of Iceland was the main thing about building a new building needed to build at the university. It was the best, and you shared in it, of course, and wanted the course of the university to be the most. What's the need today? I think it might only be taken into this proposal when she comes to the committee. What's the need for buildings today? What is the need for school buildings? In particular, do I talk about college, as well as possibly high school, what is the need to build such buildings today? ' Is it necessary to be large, extensive buildings that can receive hundreds of students? No, I don't think so. You see, I don't think so. Now a lot of study is being done for a long-term, especially now after this virus, and I think it needs to be remedied. And that is not just the case with school. Of course, it is also true of a bank where the work is done much through computers. Is there any need for all these buildings? Should they not be used and put to use in any other way? What's the need? Is it not only out - of - date to build some institutions when people are at home on their computer and can work at home and live abroad somewhere in the country? What is the need to build constantly? Isn't this just an out - of - date idea? Don't we just have to think this over? Of course, we need buildings like apartment buildings, I'm not talking about putting it down. The Ministry, do they need as much housing as it was 10 or 20 years ago? Do they need that much housing? I doubt it very much. Then you hear from abroad that companies don't even have room for all their employees because half of their employees are expected to be at home or somewhere else. I think this might be taken into consideration. I've got other things to say, and maybe I'm gonna kill on a few other things. I'm also going to kill that public must constantly be part of the service provider. The establishments of the State are to have the primary objective of serving the public, not to hinder, delay, repetitive, active, salty, and complicated people, but to serve. It will never be too important for humans. I don't say, I'm the last man to claim that it's simple and easy to simplify and gather in the administration. I worked there for 30 years, I know it's not simple. There are many lions in the road, and many to resist, of course. It's not a simple task. You need a bone in your nose, that's perfectly clear. I'm aware of that. Ministers need their advisers. The government has to rule the country. The minister must not be without control, and the government must not be out of control. A dramatic issue must not be self-controlled in the management and policy of a working group. Ministers, the politicians, must take over the government of their Ministry and manage according to the policy they were elected to enforce. That's basic. That's exactly what it's been wanting to burn by this government to be controlled by controlled autopilots and ministers and politicians are like passengers at the back of the long bus and have no control over where the trip is going.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u34	President. I come up here to thank you for a good discussion, and perhaps to highlight some points that were presented during the discussion. First, though, I'm going to mention one thing I didn't want to mention in my first speech, and it's how important it is to use the information that appears in the evidence that is not just an issue of the problem but a practical solution to the success of the goals. I mention, as an example, the rule that if one weight - bearing point is added, two things have to go out. This is a rule that has been introduced into Britain, and we agreed on this in the government of our time when this was being accomplished. That is an example of something that immediately would have a very real effect. They would have to think twice about making up for something new that would be burdensome for the common people because they would need to be received out in two ways. The members of Parliament who discussed the matter brought quite interesting points into this discussion, not all of which I can trace. But I'd like to take this opportunity to agree with the question. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason's translation of the importance of setting this in line with the community, since a recession has long and long occurred in the country while the farm continues to expand here in the capital area, especially in Reykjavík, and thus the hook increases. In this way, this is where the booth grows and the country is weakened at the same time. This is a major factor when it comes to dealing with the booth, to scatter it more quickly, and to improve the earth's relationship with it, making it better prepared for its function. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson noted the fact that in the next few years, very many government employees will complete jobs, and then they will have the opportunity to pull together without having to resign many to that end. There you might think of some rule, such as two in, two out. As soon as two have finished, the system can apply to get one new employee back. I'm just projecting it as an idea, but it's at least Realizing that if the work is done, the stall will continue to grow, even in spite of the opportunity of completing its work. Hv. paritaprevir The Brutish of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, as it seemed, was concerned about the EEA principle that men were not good enough for the inductions there. I'll come in a little later. Hv. A senator, however, said something positive about this proposal, but then he resorted to the various matters in which she felt that the Central Party was opposed to subtracting. Some of these cases I did not know that we were opposed, but in others, it is important how things are done. And thinking that cab drivers are part of the booth, I think it's a very strange approach. Senator. Hv. A senator said that with a discussion about the booth, we had stolen feathers, which had previously been used by some independents. It is true that this was raised by independents back then, decades ago, but it was only in the recycling process, and that's where we saved it. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should be just happy that we should use that word and here bring attention to the importance of this goal, for, of course, it has become much bigger now than it was when independent people were going to do something about it decades ago. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's dwellers reviewed very many Prarkician things, i.e. Real examples of the harmful effects of a stall growing too much, and the work of order becomes too complex. I don't have time to track all these cases, because he did it. paritaprevir That's a very good offer for Þórarinsson. I'm going to give him one example, which is the effect of the rule of trustees. It is an example of how overcrowding and unintelligible regulations can produce a chain reaction, as we have seen recently. Because of the failure of the system to deal with applications for asylum, there is an even greater increase in applications, and the problems of the system are likely to increase, and this even continues to complicate matters. There would be easier, clearer, and practical regulations for all, society, and, of course, the inmates, who knew what the rules were, and who would not have to wait even years after receiving such an answer. Mr. President. At last, it was said "wow." paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the Gunnarsdóttir of EES deal, that I came in earlier when I was discussing a talk. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's Daughter. In this suggestion, it is important to point out that, as a matter of fact, it is. paritaprevir Þorgerður's Katrín's Gunnarsdóttir said that these regulations are often being introduced in a more burdensome way than they need to be. In that case, there is a home - to - house problem. Of course, we know that this is a lot of nonsense coming from the European Union, which increases the booth, but in many cases it is true that the problem is enhanced by the introduction at home. Therefore, it is expected that this will be handled specifically. And I can make you happy. Councilmen who were concerned about the EEA by assuming that the EEA's affairs will simply be avoided by this two-out rules simply because something else was gross. However, the fact that these EU protocols are not being introduced beyond the time of need for our participation in the EEA contract is to be taken into account. This is a very complete form of suggestions that deal with a huge subject, an urgent one. If the government sees fit to finish this, it will affect countless areas of society, improve people's lives, increase their country's wealth, and improve their interests in this society, and strengthen the position of the State. To say this, I hope that as most members of the council see fit to participate in the work ahead and that the proposal will be accepted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u35	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize social security legislation, No. 100/2007 (increased pensions). Transporters are all members of the United States Congress. In 1st. To make provision for a provision for the statute, and to add to the new number, as follows: In spite of the regulations of the 69rd par. shall improve social security, as well as payment according to the 63rd st. and budgets according to 22nd. g., increase according to minimum wage insurance increase according to biographer contract 2019◯2022. The rise in microenergy and rehabilitation (foundures) and pensions should be retrospective from April 1, 2018, in line with an increase in minimum wage insurance per the contract. And 2. It reads: This law already comes into force. A bill similar to that was brought to the Council of 145, 149, and 150, but it was not granted. The case is now submitted by changes taking into account the so - called biographies contracts of a general labour market signed on April 3, 2018, and the corresponding changes in reports. This bill suggests that the GDP will follow the trends of the lowest remuneration bill in accordance with the types of collective labour agreements and will be 368,000. in the year 2022. The favors are cumulatively increased to 2022 in a parallel manner and in the lowest terms of the same agreements. When I contributed the bill last year, I mentioned that when executives made big use of big words like a biographer contract, they didn't guarantee that the standard of life would reach the whole nation. Now it does not seem that the government is going to bring justice to those of all the lowest terms or to ensure a decent standard of living. In this discussion, we should not forget that this group has remained ever more in the uplift as well as the decline in the economy. For three years, the government of the left green, forward class, and the Independence Party has allowed biographies between the majority of the minimum pensions and the general pay population to grow. As a result, an independent decision has been made to increase in the land and even to trap people into poverty traps. In the last financial bill of this government, the poorest people in the country are once left behind, despite the Supreme Court. In fact, a few days before the last election, the prime minister had said that these people should not have to wait for righteousness. The increase in social security insurance according to the increase in minimum wage is simply a large prince's issue. Today, there are tens of thousands of dollars in minimums and disability and pensions. The next year, when there are raised budgets, the difference will be 86,000. The Union believes that the non-involved pensions of social security should never be lower than minimum wage. The minimum wage is the standard for man - made living, and that must apply to the poor and older citizens as well. That, in fact, lies in the current law. In addition, it is an independent project to significantly reduce the revenue of social security payments, but nothing like this is intended for the government. The objective of the bill is simply to increase the quality of social security that includes the benefit of the elderly and the poor. What a contrast, though, with people in different groups! However, when participants qualify for employment, they may be the worst. Less than one fourth of the disability suffers from a lack of material riches. Since 1998, in terms of numbers that have remained for the topic groups of Iceland's Qualification Association, 59.4% of the population has been developed by the microchip. Granted, many older citizens enjoy quite a good standing, yet a large part of the group has limited or even no rights from a pension fund. It contains e.g. women who were at home with a brother's part of their life most prominent. Such ones, in turn, rely solely on the pension of social security and payment, are a group of elderly and desperate people who are forced even to refuse medical services or normal things, such as giving Christmas gifts to their grandchildren or going to theater once a year or engaging in other activities of life that give them some value. So it is a perfect primary duty for the Council to attend this group and agree to this bill. This is especially necessary because these are the ones that remained in the ups and downs of the past few years, now looking forward to this so - called dress - and - live experience, with financial and financial support, to get even farther out of the way. This will be nothing more than to increase the gap between the poor and the rich, increasing inexorably, which should be of special concern to us during this time of crisis, as there is a very well - known result of a crisis that is growing. We'll see, for example. in the world for the first time in more than a decade, world poverty, which has been improving rapidly in recent years and decades, has been increasing again. Mr. President. According to collective agreements, the minimum pay of the lifetime bill was raised to 317,000 dollars. month 1st April 2019 and should be increased by 51,000 times. in addition to the year 2022. The promotion of social security in the budget is far from reaching the previously diagnosed goals. The target for implementation, without the home support of those who receive disability and rehabilitation, is 255,834 k. per month. Clearly, many people have to live on recoverys. So we suggest that the amount of money will be developed in the following way: The amount will immediately be restored, 317,000 dollars. per month. From April 1, 2020, it will be 335,000 k., January 1, 2021 351,000. every month and January 1, 2022, she reaches 368,000 bucks. per month. In addition to the proposed changes, it is quite clear that there is a need to reduce the degree of income loss due to the specific replacement of a pension, sometimes referred to as a dollar against a dollar's impairment, which is a social law, No. 99/2007. Changes in the amount of money according to the bill are expected to be published in regulations. Once again, budgets are needed to take these impairments into consideration. In the responsible way that the Conspiracy has provided as an economic strategy for 2021, we propose to raise the payoff target for employment as early as 2021, followed by a further reduction in damages in the entire social security system. There are examples of the decision made by these groups in terms of negotiations, as presented here. It was, for example. conducted in 2011 when the Council of that time increased payment to the groups according to collective agreements. If someone wants to point out that we are now working hard to meet them, I would point out that experience shows that it will go way too slow. These people simply cannot afford to wait and should not have to wait, as it were. The prime minister put it so well in the fall of 2017. V.E.G. The prime minister has spoken a lot about these matters, and we must expect her to heed her words to the wealthy. So I assume that it will be easy to get more part of the body of Congress on the subject and to ensure that these truly troubled groups at least Many individuals within it have the same elevations as those being given to those on the lowest level of pay in the community. Mr. President. Finally, it is quite effective, but at the same time, the ad of Iceland's Micro-President Community, where a good-looking man is monitored on a cake load and shows how the status of a microchip is about the lowest contract wage. The advertisement's making is certainly searched into the builder of the Independence Party, the party that still believes that the bread crumbs theory lives, and that it works in a way that only increases the cake so that enough and fat breadcrumbs fall on the table of the inferiors. In fact, a number of international studies show that this doctrine is merely a figment of the imagination. Those who live on striped benefits and in the social security system do not need such research. They feel the error of these teachings on their own. You see, we're all involved in common quality of our country and common resources. We should not accept that older people who are born for disability all their life will never be able to feed themselves and be in need of such provisions and be condemned to poverty for the rest of their lives. It's not really possible to accept that it's the rule we're based on. Therefore, I hope that this matter will receive material coverage but not just be pushed aside and put to sleep on a committee, as it has been too often. So I have high hopes that a well - being committee that will take over the matter after this discussion will now show the strength and desire that we live in a society with minimal justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u36	A respectable president. I asked some legislators in the beginning about financing whether they were not justified, for those groups who trust in the government to earn a living, to have the same elevations that the government boasts over life contracts. I have to say, there was a lot of buggy in those answers. There were no direct answers to that question, no yes, no no no no. Is it justified that people who rely on government forwards do not have a strike right or any such thing to fight for their business, at least get the same dollar increase, and the lowest wage in their lifetime contracts? I'm impressed with this, because when the biographies got through, there was an extra spin in which the unions said it had to be a powerful state entrance. There's been a little action. The government brought some things that had been displayed long before in financial programs, etc. But it was somehow just an extra cycle that added nothing to it, and the government was allowed to boast about its arrival in the life - making agreements. Is it not hypocritical, and I do not use the word lightly, that governments boast of their approach to the life - making agreements, but do not use the same reasoning with their clients, who are in the lowest wages?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u37	Mr. President. Yes, and I only came into it at the beginning of the talk that it would be amazing for the government to allow himself to be struck by words like a biography contract when it becomes clear that it reaches only certain groups. I don't make any comments that the employee movement or professional drivers do. They are primarily making adjustments in their affairs. Of course, in the fine struggle of the employee movement it was clear that the main emphasis must be on a rise in the lowest wage, simply because it cannot be survived. If the minimum price cannot be survived, it is not possible to do so even if it is otherwise obtained. In fact, there is no way to put it that, in fact, it is simply wickedness to judge a small child born into the world without having any chance of caring for himself, but still a member of the community and stock of our resources and common goods, to poverty for the next 70, 80, or 90 years. I kind of think it's an ◯absurd's idea. We who have a high salary and a secure job, the next year at least, are not affected by the economic effects of this crisis. For us, the most bother is to change only our lifestyle, but we have enough food and even get goods at hotels and restaurants if we are traveling. But something else has become more expensive, such as. It's not a big problem for us to pay, ten apiece every four, five days, it's just a big deal for this group. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So, yes, this is hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u38	A respectable president. This is a very good suggestion, and I wholeheartedly accept encouragement from you. A senator to the welfare committee on material matters and particularly on the retrospective principle of the proposal. Well, fortunately, when I saw my budget bill, I somehow saw this obvious flaw, that it needed to consider biographies as a result of a 69.g. Social Security Act. I presented it as a change form for the 1st budget. which doesn't happen often. But it was such an obvious flaw. So it is very good to receive this bill, since these factors are addressed materially while we are also discussing the matter on a financial committee. I think there will be a lot of discussions on this subject in many committees of the council and as many as anyone else. We should talk about that, I think, in all committees. If something is wrong, you can probably find a friend in the matter on all committees of the council. It's an environment too. It's also professional. This is also an issue of rights. This is about everything we came to back here. So the more, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u39	Mr. President. Yes, I agree, of course, that this is all about national life. When those who think that the cost is too high begin to count, they find a number of grosss, but they don't know what the net is. It is that many things are saved up against which, however, may be somewhat secondary. The important thing is that Iceland, the 11th richest country in the world, has nothing to do with poverty, which is actually controlled by the World Parliament and the State. And speaking of the 69th parr. Social Security Act I couldn't agree with that. Senator. Of course, remuneration should be done, not just benefits, as it should be at this time of the year. At least you'd be able to It'll feel better if our polls at least did the same thing, that we took at least one. just to raise prices and inflation, not to raise the pay market. I think this is a fundamental matter, but it's a little difficult to have such a discussion because at the moment a government is in which there are a hard right party that doesn't want to see it, and there are two groups that I feel are in favor of a much more emotional politics and that have often shown quite a bit of socialism. So I have certain expectations that there will be voices from there that at least... Push us forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u40	A respectable president. We're here on the necessary legislation to change the social security law, increase in pension. It is true that in 2020 it is the only real story of having to stand here and speak for such a bill. In essence, 1st. Hence, the bill of the United States Parliament was carefully and carefully loaded. However, it is a joy to be part of a political class that thus exercises itself. In the historical context, we can rely on the fact that this is where we will continue to cut until adequate results are achieved. We know that it takes equal men to reform. Any society that wishes to be identified with culture, welfare, justice, and enlightenment should not be treated this way to any of its subjects, no group. It is a community group that has cleared the path, creating the basis for which we live today in a large - scale society of most people. We enjoy relatively high education levels, and productive employment and social services are generally excellent. These are people who have done their work. Most of us probably have far greater options than we know, now at work or at our age, as is often said, or have less energy. Part of the group we're dealing with, pension workers, has not been privileged to have had non- workforces in the longest of their lives and thus failed to complete a qualified career. Accidents, accidents, and illness have prevented them. Mr. President. The age of work and the age of work are terms that we have to deal with in these days and that need to reevaluate our position by changing our work together, by changing our technology. We also face a new technological revolution that may make these terms out - of - date. It brings to mind another body of Congress proposal, a Senate decree that I'm about to propose, soon to be expelled from the age-related retirement regime. But that's a whole different story, and it doesn't cover here. In the case of both older and desperate people who seek workforce participation, as common sense tells us that they are positive in nature and have no faults, are good and good, the legislation cruelly punishes them with heavy tax laws, which, in many cases, top tax returns to normal people in Iceland. The bull of all income goes to tax pay. What message is that? Would anyone in this hall remind me of what political party it is here at the high Council that fights under taxes for some? Has a group promoted the street of this group, showing understanding of their successes and circumstances, or in particular fighting to enable pensioners to have a decent standing, all support - giving pensioners? I haven't had much to say. The tax loss, the tax payment, is just for some people. It's not been fighting for those who've gotten it together. This is true for those who have, but not for those who need it. For each of us, our present situation - this injustice - must be an embittered sense of justice. I don't know what's going to do, but through my mind, my mind goes all over the place. For some reason, the poetry of Steinn Stein Steinar from Passius III came to mind. 51: At the Hill of Valhalla, a man is being crucified, and people take a ride with the bus to watch him. In conclusion, a little girl in the audience says: " Won't man be bored of being crucified? This reflects disorientation, our lack of understanding. I'd like to take so much into this year, Mr. President, to say, "This has the prerogative of human contempt." From 2017 onward, with continuous and continuous blundering of the pension of older persons, public security has been maintained in view of the general development of pay and the development of the lowest salary in the labour market. It's enormous, meaning that the upsurge in the new social security law at that time is long overrun. The European Commission has pointed to a conference for the council - I don't want to say it like that, a respectable president, that it was a petition, which is the way it is; we look to these groups in such a way that they send a petition to the council. The microengineering alliance points out that in 2008 the minimum wage and nondeserved biofuels were understood, and the detriment has continued to grow ever since. The difference is now 70,000. Today, there are 70,000 microenergy pensions. lower than minimum wage. And it'll go on like our chairman in the United States, boy. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson, came into his speech, the sparking will continue if the current financial bill will be approved to the council. There are no changes to see at the moment. As mentioned, the gap will be 86,000. month next year. That's a lot to miss, a respectable president. We allow ourselves to treat this group this way, causing him not to have many weapons to bite in this context. You see, the words alone, thought powerful, are not enough in all context. For though much is spoken, much to be spoken, and much written; and there is a battle, there is more to it. This is not the powerful pressure group as a number of professions that are struggling for a better option, because of their strong position in a workforce, they are formed. The vast majority of professions are due to strike rights and other sharp weapons, and they achieve better terms, but not to this group. Mr. President. Is it really so that in civilized society it is necessary for this group to stand in any form of weapons, standing in public squares, shoving their fists, shouting and demanding for granted; justice, reasonableness? We are fighting for every pensioner in the country to achieve the goal of living. We're talking about everyone being able to live above the poverty line. Today, there are thousands of pensioners who do not, and that is the sad truth. Of course, it should not be forgotten, and there is no need to skate over it, that a part of a pensioner is experiencing quite a financial gain, has earned a pension of a career that works well. We don't have to worry about that group, in my opinion. But there are other groups, large ones, who suffer in need and distress. Their interests should be ours. We need to guard them primarily. We must not fail. We must respond. We'll hear you over the middle of the heptapod, as the poet said. Can we afford this? Don't you think it's too expensive? No, it's a matter of values and morals, and it's a matter of priorities. Mr. President. Living in financial security is not just a matter of survival. It's a health matter, it's health matter. It is shameful that thousands of people in the community cannot fill in their medication boxes of the month because they do not have money, do not have good food that is necessary for us all. They do not live in decent circumstances, in good housing, which strengthens them to self - survival, but the circumstances are more likely to weaken their health, destroy pride, and destroy a sense of self - worth. Is it not fitting, Mr. President, to use a word that fell here at the council and say, "No, that's not how we do it? It is also true to say: Let us unite to do better, united in accepting the proposed changes in the bill. Let's get these things straight. It is suggested in the United States by this bill, and it encourages people to learn about the fine economic suggestions available in our collection, which is a responsible way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u41	A respectable president. We're discussing the Community bill on the change in social security laws and the rise in pensions. I've come up here to support this whole business, just as I have done with all the good things that have to do with social security and the treatment of financial resources, especially to the worst. Although you support fully the objective of the bill to increase the social security benefits in accordance with biographer agreements, they are, unfortunately, achieving only part of what has been taken of the Social Security Funds over the last few decades. What's the most important thing about this is that this increase comes right there from 255,834k. In fact, at 317,000 p.m., about 70,000 k., the exact number that we members of the Parliament received was raised in pay last time. As a result, it is quite normal for public insurance to get these increases and reformers to really need them because it would be extremely important, these over 40,000 bucks. By taxes. What stands out and we've had our noses smelled right now is that the State's Accounting Office came to consider. It's part of the problem, but the main problem lies in this social security system that has been built up for the past decade of the Tetragrammaton. He's created a pendant monster that's absurdly built, but I'm beginning to believe that it's been built up with will, perfect will, about how to create a system with 3, 4, 5Ks installed. of 6, 7 or 8 K. in many cases. This has been accomplished by creating not just a decline in the system but a chain-acting decline and not just within the social security system but beyond that, into the social system of the rural community. That's why it's kind of amazing if you look at that number, 70,000 bucks. increase in one of the top social security boards, disability, and older citizens, that the effect they have on the system, they are that it would start to impair right away. That's the most remarkable thing to do. And what would that at once be? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And with what result? Yes, most of those in need of this increase would be affected. What song, a respectable president, do we need in this hall ten years after, to create such a monster, such an inhuman system? The image flying that has been used to build up this system is, in effect, remarkable. All we see is the trouble going on in this government, the three categories of government. They're all part of the four-part system that built up the system. If you ask the management of the simple question, how can you possibly calculate that January 1 next year the social security will be improved by 3.5%, then the three answers are as many as the classes? An application said it was just an increase in the index price of consumers. The independent group listed the index of consumer prices and pay development, and the pay box was reduced. But in what proportion? Nobody knows but the highest. Secretary of finance. Then came the third answer, which was a pay development according to the financial bill. But the most remarkable thing in that bill was that the next year's pay development will be 5.2%, so the pay field must be reduced to 1.7%. How in the hell will anyone know that they will be 1.7%, 5.2% in pay, or 3.5% inflation? The late bank should calculate inflation. It is remarkable that older citizens too have to make plans ahead. Of course, it would be much better if we took up the kind of system that is being proclaimed in many respects that the collective agreements of the lowest paid would only apply completely to the social security system, that they would see to it that when those at the lowest salary get 24,000 bucks. increase they get in the social security system as well. 24,000 bucks. It would then be a transparent system. It'd be calculated out in advance, and it'd be in right away. Then no one needs to be trying to predict the future, and then both the Ministry of Prime Ministers and the Self - Opportunity may fail to predict the future inflation of the next year, the salary development of the next year, or the pay line for the next year's pay. Another one of these things has been forgotten. There seems to have been an agreement to greatly increase tax returns to individuals in the social security system as well as those on the lowest salary. How is this done? Yes, it is by leaving the discount to remain unchanged or just not, at times elevated according to a consumer reference, at times where it is not raised. The latest play was that current government groups were going to lower the tax percentage twice. Then, too, they may reduce the much closer and more efficient personality discount to cut off e.g. 900,000 bucks. 1 million K. in income and raise it according to salary development or index consumption prices from 2008 to today, which would be valid for those on the lowest pay and paying social security. But as I'm saying, the Corporate Community has pointed out that the next year, when this surprising 3.5% rise occurs, but at the same time in the later year, pay by biographies will rise by 24,000 K., will be 86,000. The difference between the lowest salary and recovery. Unfortunately, this system is the problem and the more we're trying to raise the improvements and the more we're trying to improve the system, the more monsters it will be. As a result, we should focus on reevaluating the whole system, simplifying it as possible. But at the same time, I support that all the shopping elevations in the biographies also go to public insurance companies, but with the conditions that if we are going to raise our social security according to these biographies contracts, it is exactly what they are, but we don't use these tricks that have been designed to cut down other parts of the system or whatever they are going to cut the chain that's going to run out of the system that sucks and we're very embarrassed that we're going to have such a system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u42	Madam President. I would like to recommend a synonym over the development of sustainable industrial policy. According to the proposal, the General concluded to hide travel, industrial and innovation ministers working to shape sustainable industry and employment policy with regard to changing conditions in society and major business countries. The policies will be carried out in broad cooperation with commercial and industrial parties, those of the environment and the future prime committee. The design of the policy will be specifically considered for improving production, diversity and sustainable production of Icelandic industry. Secretary introduces a new course for May 2021. This proposal suggests that the Council establishes some form of government committee involved in public industrial policy. This is a suggestion that has occurred several times before. Finally, I proposed to the 149th legislature, but it did not succeed. She's been slightly updated ever since. A similar proposal for a hearing of industrial reform was proposed to the 115th legislature of Stefán Guðmundsson. Actually, this idea still applies and, in the opinion of the movers, of the original essay, is still applicable, even though 29 years have passed since its contributions. So we allowed her to follow the same pattern at the end of this report. Generally speaking, Iceland has not really industrial policy today but, rather, with a number of different policies on certain aspects of employment without any focal point reflecting the overall picture. For example, a current policy of cohesion has a specific attribute of industrialism in common with well - being policy and structure. At that time, traveling, industrial, and innovation ministers have ordered a control group for the molding of the total innovation policy. The group created a policy called the New World of Iceland and was introduced on October 4, 2019. Other than this, a formal presentation of the government policy may be found at one time mainly in a current financial programme, in the form of action on the topic fields involved in the national industry. Thus, Iceland's lack of industrial policy was widespread in which to support and in what way it should be used, especially those involved in exporting. The concept of industrialism, in some respects, is faulty because it creates a mind - altering connection with the polluted industry. It is appropriate here, however, because it deals with the modern industry and with its context of the State's policy on economic development and prosperity for the public. This term is used throughout the world in this sense. It is better to stick to that concept than to go in an effort to create some other form of verb. Last laid the foundation for industrialism in Iceland by convening industrial policy in 1979. The follow-up of this work has not been prominent in recent years; industrial development in recent decades has mainly been seen by government irrefutable belief in the potential of the whale crisis economy that carried to Iceland's major fishing industry, aluminium industry, banking plants, macroil, and, today, the tourist stream. Actually, such a random approach will soon be compared to economic management. Industrial policy needs to be thought of in the long run and given a clear view of the future. We can't let her stand in a void. Industrial policy needs to deal with just the way with measurable standards if there is any hope of fulfilling the course's future. Transporters also want to show the importance of industrialism not only in terms of the economic situation of the nation but also in terms of the biodiversity of Iceland and global climate change. It is possible to go a little deeper into this, and this is done in the report, both in the original narrative of the Parliamentary decree, which was proposed by a candidate in 1991, if I do not forget, and in the discussion of Mazzucato Mariana economist in his book and Kevin Carsons's in articles and more. The big thing about how we build our country's economy, how we build our country's economy, is that we need to take into account that some holistic idea is in progress. If we always approach it in a puzzle, we may miss all possible opportunities and not be determined enough to achieve certain results. What this suggestion actually goes on is that a complete combination will be made. It is not said that the table should be removed from all the good work that has been done until now, but it is tried to paste it in a clearer way. The result is, of course, that instead of changing the rules and laws on how companies operate, taxes, etc. Based on each occasion, a common model of the nation will always be made to compare the effect that certain ideas could have on the overall picture. This trend has been increasing in most of our neighboring countries over the past few years and has, in fact, given much opportunity in many lands. The report includes the following: Talk about how this has been done in the European Union and refer to the region of Emilia-Romba, Italy. But when I think about it, I look at Japan very often, South Korea and Taiwan. There are all countries that have achieved tremendous success in this area by having a very firm view of how to measure success and how to achieve success in development, e.g. in export and similar. The suggestion does not specifically state the precise standards. It is something that is normal to come out of this work. It is also not said that there should be some specific way of thinking. It can be accessed in a number of ways, but by looking for production in the economy, in the community and in nature, and to all the other aspects of today's cycle, it is possible to get a good result. I also think this proposal is of particular importance at the moment because we're looking up at a historical recession in the economy and in the months and years we're going to have to rebuild our economy to some extent. The way we do it exactly is, of course, a question. We could try what we've tried many times before, just letting this work out somehow, or we could try to plan well now and work hard to keep some kind of plan in front of us so that when we get out of this pandemic, we'll be better equipped to use the opportunities that come up. Therefore, it is quite good to try to shape this policy by May 2021. It may be too optimistic to think that it can be won quickly, but I think it's an exercise at least. So I'm not going to have any more words about it right now. Then I suggest that this case be agreed as soon as possible and be well paid off. This job is missing and has been missing for at least 29 years of the idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u43	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by thanking you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for being awake and digging up this old advance case because it's a very good case. Maybe it's these kind of things that make the politics fun. There are opportunities for development and progress. If you look at the cohesives of the case, which are also members of Porta's party and, on the other hand, the Congress of the Agency, some of which believe are possible in political contrast, it shows that it is not. These are people who are interested in making progress in this country, especially now, as it were. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned, as we're sailing into a historical economic recession. Therefore, we must look for ways to carry on projects that contribute to innovation and increase the production of valuable things in the country. It's the only way we're going to make it. Alternatively, we cannot stand equal to our neighbors and be competitive. That's exactly what it says here in the article, which is very accomplished and informative, and I encourage people to read it for entertainment, and the senator also gave us a fine deal of time ago in speaking, that we are now at a fork. Not only because of the situation now but also because of the fact that all our systems are in many ways good and have been good for us, but others may need to be improved and rephrased according to our changing circumstances and the development of other things. We are, for example. The European Economic Area and large EEA, United Kingdom, are removed from the European Union and this changes our position in export. The report also introduces climate issues. That discussion was, for example, one. Just not there, I hope I'm right on it, in 1991, at least not to the extent that it is now. It had indeed begun, but the situation has not changed with regard to climate. At least the spirit of self - control is relatively new. So I think we need to think things over completely again from a new technology, a position in a global society, our economic situation, etc. I found it interesting to hear the senator mention a state that has miraculously recovered from a very difficult economic situation and has become, what to say, such a particular phenomenon and an example of the resurrection and economic success. There are countries like Japan, South Korea, Taiwan. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned at the end that he was not going to have an opinion as to what song standards would be put in the shape of sustainable industrial policy in Iceland, but you are wondering that the states mentioned by the senator may have done their homework well, in contrast with the results they have shown. You'd think they'd shaped such standards, and I'd say that we look there to form a set framework for our own industrial policy. Although we often look primarily at the northern regions when we're building policies and even whole law columns and maybe Western Europe, we have good friends from the east. And to illustrate Japan, there are many similarities between Japan and Iceland. Perhaps we are islanders, we live in a natural disaster. The Japanese have been isolated from famines and have had many difficult times, but they have always been raised up, and there intelligence has driven them quite far and far. I think Iceland and I have a lot of witty but maybe sometimes less discipline. But there must be a great way to improve. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned earlier that we had so far gone not only on the intelligence and power and energy that are now closer to us Iceland but perhaps also on the quiet carelessness of the occasion, by which it will be successful. But in my opinion, we can't and should not continue to rely on it. We must shape sustainable industrial policy. We have an obligation to do so, not just in the light of present circumstances, but because of marvelous revolutions all around us and in ourselves for the past few years and decades. We know a discussion about the need for, for example. to improve support for high-tech companies, companies such as Marel and Assses, who have been very successful, CCP and other companies who have at least one leg abroad because of their lack of competitiveness. I'm sorry. We clearly need to clean up our activities to make the environment of the enterprises that want to be better here because there's a lot of quality and motivation to run a business, it's supposed to be. We look at the future of increasing opportunities for high - tech foods that need cold air, enough water, enough electricity. We have all of this. We can improve in these matters. We can be exemplary. Perhaps we should continue to give the Eastern nations that were previously mentioned as being ahead in cell phones and television sets and such. But we can certainly gain a good advantage in terms of food production. Laxeldi and fish farms are increasing here. I will submit a synonym in the coming days regarding improved work on the development of algae, both small algae, seaweed, and icicle. There's a lot of potential. There are many things we can do. But we need a plan. We need to have a better plan than we have, and this case is a real challenge. paritaprevir Smára Mccarthy, along with the Pirates and the movers, is a step in the right direction. I strongly support it, and I join the senator and encourage the Senate to resolve this matter quickly and safely and to the highest. Tourism, industrial and innovation, to board up the sleeves and initiate this work so we can see new industrial policy for Iceland, preferably next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u44	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for a good talk and for participation and support in this excellent proposal, which, of course, is to be traced to the party of a senator. Because she caught it with South Korea, Japan and Taiwan, there's a reason I didn't necessarily want to stick to their standards. That's how the countries came, if we took especially South Korea, out of World War II at a time similar to that of technological development and community development, it was extremely low technology compared to everything. But they stressed industrial development and, in fact, became highly focused on their production capacity, but they weren't manually controlling the political economy. It's never worked very well. Instead, they produced economic incentives aimed at extending the high value chains. What I find critical is that the method they used was to just say: Export is what controls. If companies bring more export income, they will be looking more closely at the needs of their enterprises in the entire Regulation. I think we should look to more things than just exports. Of course they do too, but the blindness of these one factors could be a problem, especially when we look to other areas that have been successful in creating a strong internal economy. I think there's a lot of opportunities like that. A senator mentioned, and I'm certainly excited about the proposal of hang and seam, we've talked a little about it together. I think we should look to all the ways, but I wanted to say this about the standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u45	A respectable president. It is in this as another, and I agree that, that we must be with an open mind. We need to think outside the box. Certainly, there are differences between Iceland and e.g. South Korea, but also similar, so I say again that what we can use from them should we take on to our work in due time. I suppose the council would like to agree that they will be working on this sustainable industrial policy for Iceland. I think it's the one. Other than that, I enjoyed listening to the senator reviewing how these nations have developed their economy. He's obviously well prepared for all of this. They will benefit from the work that lies ahead. I think it's absolutely our responsibility to make this matter happen quickly and safely. Iceland needs it. We need to look for ways to increase our value. I'm asking why. A senator whether he agrees with me in that Iceland has a tremendous potential to become the world's food supply based on the region, energy and resources we have here. He concluded that my pregnancy was exciting. We'll discuss it a lot better in this room. But the senator does not agree with that, for example. high-tech food production and other things, e.g. The production of fuels and other things, that we are talking about an enormously exciting future? It is usually so that when you distress them, the opportunity will be too, and marvelous things will happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u46	Madam President. You're absolutely right. We're sitting on so many opportunities. I went to South Korea a few years ago and I got some, including... Visiting the world's largest automobile factory and the world's largest shipyards, just a few miles from each other in Ulsan port. I thought: South Korea doesn't have any great resources, there's not much steel, e.g. or iron on the soil or like this. The majority of their values are imported to some extent. Iceland has huge aluminium production, huge. Almost none of it is used in Iceland. It's all just moved out of the country. We could be producing cars, or I don't know if we're interested in building a car industry, but why can't we be producing planes for exporting, small planes that hit these short areas? Why can't we start producing basalt fibers, as has long been thought of? I agree with the food production, the high - tech industry, whether we are talking about cabbages, as it has been called, or the meat industry. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has repeatedly spoken of. There are so many things we could do, but in order to be successful, we need to adjust our motives properly and because our motivations have been so random for so long, some opportunity may have been unnecessaryly lost. At any rate, I think that by means of a concordance on such matters, it is possible to nurture more fully the needs that arise, new ideas, and other things. To that end, I intend to disagree with one thing at a time. At the beginning of his talk, a senator said that the Piratar and the forwarding party are different categories.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u47	Some think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u48	Some people think so, but I think that if we sit down and talk, we can be balanced about certain things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u49	A respectable president. Yes, when people sit down and discuss matters, they usually agree. I'm just gonna say what. A senator in coffee later, and we'd talk a little bit more about it, like, I would have. interest in knowing more about this basalt and some of the things he mentioned earlier. Perhaps that is what the senator mentioned about the production of aluminium, that there is a considerable amount of aluminium produced, and all of it is exported. In Southnes, we are told that a large fishing industry is planning to start land supplying salmon, turn this into a huge manufacturing company on food, which I naturally embrace. There will be work, and there will be food, not just food for us but also food for others. We have an international terminal just in the next street, so it's easy to move out the food and make income for our national preparation. And as I said before, in all tribulations there will be opportunity. It is as if with our best poets, they have often written their best songs and have done their best in their worst emotional distress. Of course, one does not rejoice because the nation is going through the difficult times of these months, but I think we must, because the situation is the way it is, and we must all seek ways, to look forward, what can we do, see that the glass is half-full, not half-empty, and create wonderful opportunities that can lift us up and get us forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u50	A respectable president. This is an extremely important matter, as we have discussed. I'd like to briefly discuss it in a larger context. It's not as simple as you might think. The suggestion itself is only about six lines. But a larger context of this suggestion is that this is also academic. To achieve its full influence, a person must reach the educational system to support the purpose of the proposal. This is also an environment, of course, as this is a sustainable industrial policy. This is most important, but it is a matter that forces us to look to the future, not just to think about five years of age, as it is in financial planning. Such a course must take into account the technological progress we can expect over the next five, ten, twenty years. One of the issues facing the future before the council is the case that has been repeated during recent meetings regarding carnivores. When this technology goes into mass production, it eliminates the need for mass production in animals. When I was developing this suggestion, I thought a little about it in connection with the development of self - driving cars. Then I thought that, for example. seary would be dangerous, and then why wouldn't it be just self - defeating boats who would hunt the quatans or even send out submarines that would build fish by size, etc. I stopped there and thought, " No, I'm sorry, why are we merely interfering with wild nature when we can just make meat without animals? ' This is a technology development that does not eliminate the current agricultural policy at all. It will certainly still be the need and demand for agricultural products as it is today, especially those who are natural and sustainable as it is in Iceland. However, it greatly alters the diatom from where it comes from, whether it comes from the mass production of animals, or whether it comes from sustainable use of nature, real use, and technology such as carnivore. There is also an enormous self - efficiency in the form of composure and artificial intelligence, which results in the elimination of enormous numbers of jobs. And although it is true that new jobs will always be replaced, their life span will be active before self - induced, and often shorter as time goes on. Now there is work to be done that took place 50 years ago. Those jobs may last 20 years. The work that takes place before they become self - induced may last ten years, five years, two years, one year. Soon, therefore, it will hardly take time to create new ones unless they find pleasure in themselves. It really changes the economy, the reasons for it, and the job party really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really does it. More important, changes in energy are the basis for all the other changes. It is a sustainable use of energy, e.g. with nuclear fusion or just a more general use of green energy such as solar energy and wind power, etc., which will be really useful with improved battery technology. Then we will not have to rely on the large transport systems of electricity from some electric power stations such as activations, etc. but will have less and more electrical production across the country, all over the world. The way the world operates will be replaced. World continents such as Africa, for example, have not had a very large infrastructure system to transport electricity back and forth and forth, can escape this infrastructure and go directly to more distributed production. It would be a tremendous load for the entire world that would enable people around the world, regardless of how they are static, to be, for example. with carnivores, the use of local automation, to be self-sustained locally. In spite of all the globalization, this is the purpose of all of this. Globalisation is part of a larger sustainable system that needs to start locally. We need to start at a local level of sustainableity that we can then transfer to global sustainability. The problem is that we are a little trapped in the attachment of the people who are at the moment. Advertisers keep saying: You have to do most of the biggest tourism. - Wait, if you're proud, why do you have to take care of yourselves so well? Why do certain taxes need to be made? - We're competing with others abroad. - Yes, but you're still the most proud in Iceland. We need to consider a more varied way of employment in Iceland so that we are less swinging than we have been in the last few decades in this whales'economy in which we have lived. It'll come in a couple of days. That's great, great. It's gonna be huge, and then it's gonna explode. The banks, great, we're the best bankers. Of course it's gonna blow. The electricity production and the force, we have an endless supply of aluminium and have become immensely flung along the edge of an aluminium. And now, last time, with the tourists. The way we Icelanders do things is predictable. There's a whale dragon we use and use until it's finished. Then everything will blow up instead of just thinking about sustainability. For example, we may not need two million tourists tomorrow. But we are here today, and therefore we need a sustainable industry policy. It takes sustainable industrial policy to stop acting as we've always done, as we've been waiting for the next whales and not looking to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u51	A respectable president. It was one Tuesday in June 1999 that I stepped for the first time in this fine piece of music at the council, at the end of eight months. This was in other circumstances and, in fact, in a different category. There was only a younger woman in her journey, full of optimism, taking her first step at the Council in these political matters, which I love very much. During the council, there was a debate over the change in administrative law, on the Constitution, which included many changes in the right direction. And just as it was in 1995, there was a dramatic change in the section of the Constitution. Here in June 1999, I declared my disappointment that the vote had not been reached with the vote. That's where I said, by permission of the President: ▪ Each individual's right to vote for a representative at the U.S. legislation Council is one of the most important links in our democratic chain. Such rights are not and should not be commercial in political fantasizing. True, it is important to be careful about living in the land, trying to balance the facilities for the scattered areas of the land. But this cannot be done by various evaluations of the rights of individuals. It will not be measured in crescents, watts, or kilograms. The voter's supposed to be out of notice. So that speech was held in the last century, 21 years ago. These views have been held in motion ever since, and they are now. in the general convention. The changes I was hoping to see when I was taking these early steps have not yet been seen, possibly because there has not been a direct will in the established four categories of the time, to introduce this important human rights and freedom issue in Icelandic legislation. It has simply not been a political wish to change. It is true that there have been groups in the past, the Allied Party, the Alliance of Peers, the Bright Future, and other groups that have stressed this point, but it may have to do with these inconsistency of the same forces, the same categories, and the same backends, in my opinion, if I look over the story, which profit most of this inconsistencies at the time. It is not in my opinion that the inhabitants of the country are benefiting from this beyond the capital, it is heavy and rich, and they may hide behind the great well - being that everyone has built all over the country and wants to support its settlement. In fact, I think the country should be one of the ideals, but this requires adjustment of the constitution. There has been no chance or hope to interfere with the vote, let alone the ballast ship, in the administrative work that is taking place today among us. It was a agreement between us to try to take this in a certain step during these two terms and in terms of time, and now is worse than ever. The country's one outstanding thing? Yeah, I say. There are many things that can be accomplished. I believe that the responsibilities of each senator and each member of the council regarding taking account of the entire body would be much more important. I am also convinced that large cases classified as ideal cases can be spoken of as being in the village harbors, in the Chemistry, or in the fields of Egls, are all issues that would have gone faster if we were to live up to the norm. It is our firm opinion in Reverence that such voting rights in the Icelandic community, regardless of the economy, gender, regardless of their population, would be underlined by a fundamental human rights. The discrepancy itself goes against freedom. A history of conflicting votes is in my opinion a history of political horse purchases. It is time to strike the bottom of that story and to screw thoroughly for its specifics. People's rights, individuals, must not be exchanges on the political scene. The same principle should apply to the people of the land, wherever they live in the land. The vote is absolute. Only then will members of Congress become actual members of every nation. This adds to empathy. This adds to understanding, cooperation, and perspective, promoting the development of senators for the country. The whole idea is to be what the senators are concerned about. In some respects the history of the past, therefore, there are differences between votes and the ultimatum. Let us respect it, but we have entered the present and look to the future. That's why we make these adjustments. In a democratic state, all individuals, regardless of which group, must have equal options for choosing and being chosen. With the permission of the president, a report prepared for a administrative committee on the equalness of votes: The political influence of the citizens is among the basics of democracy and civil rights. It's hard to argue. Differences in the effectiveness of votes by elections can be likened to the difference between freedom of worship and freedom of expression. These are the same basic human rights. I believe that few would accept such imbalances. With the same reasoning, no one should accept the established discrimination of his vote. In a national bill of proposals at the time, and then in the results of the surveys of the Social Science Institute, we the presidents who are going over the Constitution were called a reasoning poll, a large and large, to which we are going. There the nation's firm desire was shown to revise the injustices of a conflicting decision. It was firm, very clear. Two main points were made clear in the reasoning survey of this job. On the other hand, the people want a proper resource directive that has some significance, which protects the nation's partnership, fishing the resource, and other resources of the country. And, on the other hand, balance the rules. That was a very clear message. Hence, the lack of will is a measure of disappointment. The prime minister and the government to revise the decision to allow the balance of votes to await the next election period. That was an agreement between the packs. I felt sorry to wait until the next election season, but I accepted it because there were other developments, such as a proper resource directive, that we were to receive instead. We were to receive a provision related to the sale, and we were to discuss and consider the details of the Constitution. Then we'll see how it goes. A respectable president. When we look at the story, as we look at the data back into time, speeches, international emphasis, democratic emphasis - and, of course, they have changed from decade to decade, let alone from centuries to centuries - it is clear that one individual means one vote. That's the foundation of democracy. Freedom of speech and right to righteous treatment and other human rights are equal regardless of where a country has a legal home. And this is what I said: We would not accept whether we have freedom of worship or freedom of expression. It is natural that they are ignorant, and of course, it is the same with regard to the right of the election itself. It's on these grounds that we in Reunion present our bill for a change in the law of elections to the Council, No. 24/2000, about an equation of vote. That the bill, along with me, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón P. P.I., Steindór Valdimarsson, and Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, members of the Reunion. The objective of the bill is to emphasize the fundamental reason that the right of the election is the foundation of democracy and that the restrictions on it are incongruous between people. Such limitations have various manifestations, from the time that authority is taken from the public and in order for certain groups to be dosed or given increased democratic authority over others. The sign of the latter can be found here on land, in different terms between terms of votes, and in different terms by the local population. And there's no need for that today. It is, in my opinion, the approach of the past, and not the righteous approach. The European Parliament's Committee for Democracy by law, Venice Commission, has issued rules on good policy in election matters. That's the rules, including the rules. to ensure that, in general, there is no greater than 10% difference in votes and not more than 15%, except under specific circumstances. However, in Iceland this difference is usually just below 100% in voters. The reasons for this great difference are two: On the one hand, in the Constitution it is decreed that the voters behind each of the districts should not be half as low as the U.S. seat in the second district. As I mentioned at the outset, we changed this in 1999 with the constitution change then. Then there was a conflicting vote, to form between the Old Smokenes Vow and other elections, up to less than five votes behind each congregation member in a Rhine's Cathedral, according to one vote behind a member of another. It is natural to cry out indiscriminately. However, the reason is that in the U.S. elections since the year 2000, changes in the number of districts cannot be more than just to meet the minimum conditions of the Constitution. The Constitution does not rule out that there can be a balance; it does not tell us that there should be differences. It does not rule out balance, but it does not rule out, and it further encourages that there may be an evenness in the vote. A U.S. election law, however, does this by stating that changes in the number of districts should not be removed from the twice as necessary value. For pure mathematical reasons, the absolute relevance of votes cannot be guaranteed without excluding the idealization. But the ballots are, as I could before, tied to a constitution, and it's twisted, as people know, to change it. Of course, this will not be done by public law. This does not, however, prevent the importance of a law - changing vote, which is proposed by this bill. In our opinion, this is a fundamental issue. It has long been fought for an even vote in Iceland. Brynjólfur Pétursson, lawyer and president of the United States and a member of the United States, made this proposal over 170 years ago. Various council members who are now members of the council and who have been members of the council have provided bills, the Constitutional products, and the synopsis, with different means to that end. The vote of the Icelandic voter's vote has been in disproportionate since the first approval of the restored Generalis in 1844. However, the magnitude of the situation has been changed, and the difference has been reduced, but in existing legislation, there is an imbalance of less than 100% difference between the voter's votes given to an elected senator in the terms of the vote, which is now the Northwestern district, and the terms of the vote at least, the district of the southwestern district. It is to be noted that only in January 2017 did the government of the short - lived government then ruled by an independent sect, the Bears of the Future, and its restoration. It was, like many other things, towards freedom and liberalness, but unfortunately, it has been dropped a little. But it says, with the permission of a president: ◯Cunning legislation will be passed along with the work in view that it will become simpler and aim for more equal speech in terms of vote. Those were the very ones who saw the need to take steps in the direction of equal votes. A respectable president. I realize that the changes we preach can arouse that feeling in the hearts of people like that. in the northwestern and northeastern monasteries that, by their loss of members, they will be detracted from something. But I would like to ask at a convention, a respectable president: Does the present election order return, the current vote, what it should give? Does it really understand what the arrangement we are talking about in return could bring back for the whole country? Would not a number of major local interests be quick to overcome if they were met during the council, if understood at the council, regardless of where the senator is elected? My experience is that the vast majority of the decisions we make here at the council involved so - called settlements. I made it my fun last year to rush through these 20 years here at the council. Then I saw that I had much more voted with so - called settlements than with matters directly related to the capital area. The southwestern corner members can be criticized for this, but I think this will draw out the understanding and emphasis I have found more often than not among the members of the council in this area. They look more often than not to the whole country, and they find great joy in trying to touch the emphasis, of the projects that truly need to be handled in the country. And for that to happen, I am convinced that more cohesion and more responsibility for the whole country's survival, will make the country more progress, more rapid decisions, and that it will not always be this hump and ha, and this strain. It is not just a conflict between rural and urban areas. I have repeatedly observed that the conflict is not the least between the world's own citizens, the conflict of interests. Who gets the most this year? Who gets the most next year? Instead of supporting each area, we support all the issues that are urgent. I would like to point out that we have tried in particular to change this attitude. We have traveled throughout the country regularly for a week, although we do not have direct representatives, but we have our people, our representatives, and our country, because we believe we belong to one nation in one country. Therefore, we have made an earnest effort to travel through the country to hear local governments. We have formally, for some say that we haven't done so, of course, the regional ultimatum to participate in regional meetings and to be present to hear the emphasis the rural communities place on formal meetings with local council members. We believe that the more people who put themselves in the situation and the projects in the country, and the things that our people in the country speak and fight and try to push through the council, the more that have touched those issues, the more likely we are here, in the same direction all of the progress we want to get through in the country. Therefore, I feel old - fashioned that it is impossible to open the door to those members of the council who want to put themselves in the country, either west, north, east, or south. These clumps in some extent of national access to administration and services were not corrected by individual votes. How is it intended to be corrected by individuals' votes? Things have not been so great so far. However, it was corrected by taking a larger step, a more bold step toward increasing the independence of the local community in order to control more about its own environment. We see blessedly more of the combined rural society, and how interesting it is, as five rural communities in the East joined together, to see how they take responsibility for their new united rural society in the East and look a little into the future. At the same time, they provide regional committees with increased opportunities to make decisions about the world's home environment. I think it's interesting to approach, and we can go that way, and we're supposed to be supporting our societies all over the country to go exactly that way. We're supposed to be paying very close attention to what they're doing in the east. I feel that they have shown insight, boldness, and the ability to share in this unity. I wish them a good success in trying to connect these communities with them and to hide their local societies a power to control their affairs. That's how we're supposed to think about it. We're supposed to bring the power to the people. At the same time, we should increase transparency in decision making, contribute to overall thinking, that it is a responsibility for us to think about overall, but not always in special solutions to individual political powers or individual corporations. In addition to this bill, the restoration will, of course, exert itself vigorously for promoting new opportunities, increasing opportunities in the country, with the prospect that young people, especially young people, will see opportunities to sit there and that companies will be able to see their interests as a means of ensuring work in many parts of the country, and that there will be public employment and opportunities, e.g. by opening up some kind of work station. Not just by moving government agencies in whole - souled into the country but by making all government agencies responsible in one way or another for having work at regional stations in many parts of the country. It is possible, especially in modern times that we can use the technology and the pressures we have received to return ours through modern technology. That's what we're supposed to put at least. Outside to the country and create jobs so that government bases in urban areas will be established, a core where people will be offered to work and will live where they choose. That's where I see a huge target area for the country. The public and its institutions, not only alone, but a part of their work, can easily move jobs to such stations. We must make a firm statement: We must strengthen a specific core of our home. Does this mean that something else will be left out? No, but we need to build an even more powerful core, even more powerful than we are doing, and to strengthen them in particular the core of the West. We need to strengthen the Eyjafjörður, and we need to take the Shire in a special way. Then there are these strong settlements in the South. We need to do what we can to increase such opportunities. That's how we make a living. A job opportunity is not created by the appearance of a senator. That was before. It's not now. We all want to say: "We're all in the same boat, and we're all supposed to row in the same direction. The more people do, the sooner we get to shore. I also remember what's a short-term story like this when I was in it another of the wonderful services of the marine eco-efficiency and agriculture. Then I decided to move my office regularly to the country for a week. I started off on Vestjörður and opened an office there, got a position at Isafjordur, and had a regular interview period minister, visited a company, and had all the administrations there. The Commissioner came, and the assistants and the specialists to whom certain matters were needed came. Of course, this can be solved even more today by technology. So when I went to the South, where there are naturally different groups, I had my office on Puppy Stadium. There, too, a minister's interview period was filled with one, two, and three. I remember a sheep farmer in the South, who also had a cow farm, who had a business and wanted to thank him for the first time there to discuss a business related to agriculture. I was only told that a person from the southwest corner was the first agricultural minister this fine farmer had met in the area. I think this shows that this is a matter of thinking about all of us, that we change this specific approach to having a universal election right, which encourages us to keep the interests of the whole thing in mind and to have every responsibility for our country working and working as one nation in our wonderful country. These are all important assignments I've been on here. In this speech, I may be criticized if I do not speak enough at the southwest corner. There are a lot of jobs waiting for us here and I'm not gonna start with that, we know exactly who they are. But I don't feel like we can avoid discussing how this transition will be removed, which we've held for far too long in our campaign system. The work I listed earlier, which we in Resurrected will lovingly apply to all of our efforts to make them succeed, will not be won by maintaining this conflict of votes. Thus we do not build a just society, a respectable president. We do much more by building a community together through cooperation, cooperation, and mutual understanding of different needs of different areas. That's how we get better results for everyone. We are all responsible. One individual, one vote, is both self - righteous and self - righteous in a modern - day democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u52	A respectable president. Thank you for the good stuff. I think it's helpful. I did a little bit of a work on trying to get some sort of change in this ballot at the start of this election season, but it just doesn't work out, as shown in the bill, if you're going to keep these 10% thresholds for maximum conflict of votes. It's always on the ballast ship. In order to maintain a 10% share, it would either have to reduce the terms or increase the number of members. The objective of one district is definitely something that can be worked on, but it can also be increased in order to achieve equal force. If it should be one of the ideals that I think would be probably a better step, simpler steps, then there are certain problems that we face and deal with. A senator made a good study of his speech. There's this imbalance between state and rural society. It's that fear of losing one, his agent. Like what? A senator went over as the current situation led to the present system, and you ask yourself, " Has the current system really paid for the regional politics, despite the imbalance? ' If we're going to go in the direction of one outstanding thing, there's a point we have to fix, i.e. a position of authority between state and rural society, to make the rural government more independent, of which financial independence is the most important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u53	A respectable president. Yeah, I can say that. What I was trying to say in my speech is that we need to bring the power closer to the people. I believe it will be possible, especially if the country is one of the districts. Throughout history, when it has been tried to equalize votes, the political issues have only been resolved by saying: "Let's just increase the members of the council. It's the easiest thing for everyone to do, and nobody's taking this fight, but I don't think it's a good idea to make it here because I still want to talk about it as one of the ideals. It's really important, I agree with that, in terms of financial support, the rural community is reassigned to this system. The cards need to be reimbursed. I definitely think so, so we're supposed to take these steps. Why are we saying this now? That's because I don't want to let us go about this princely conversation. She's so important. Neither would I want people here and even class members to say, "This is a backside, that having this discrepancy is a defence for the country. " People in the country, my friends and family in part, my links, do not necessarily agree that it is the best defense but, rather, that there is more consciousness within the council, from where the members of the Parliament come, about the needs needed in the country. That is why I feel that we are taking a little bit of teeth out of the strength that could be possible, especially for the country's settlement, to push forward. We're all responsible for this, not just the council members of certain elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u54	President. I recognize a certain positive trend toward this, which is in the form of more classes. This has been so that the current system is useful to larger categories and the larger groups inevitably come to power because of both how we consider the votes, to the d'Hondt distribution, and also because the vote between terms differs. Once we have entered the position of classing, it is now less important to maintain the system that is responsible for the larger categories. The smaller groups are not in that position, so they are more likely, I think, to make these changes in righteousness. But I restate on the fact that as much as it is important to consider that the balance of power between the surrounding community and what we do at the council is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u55	A respectable president. Of course, we are familiar with these early conservative classes that have come too many categories. It may well be that there are many categories, but what really matters is that there are new voices in it, rocking the boat, that do not follow traditional laws given but ask questions, Why do we have these? I want to agree with that as well. A senator said of the authority of the unit or of the community. What we've got at the Backwater even. contributes, with our proposals for the market route in the fishing road, the auction route, or the market route, is part of the resource cost that comes through the construction of the infrastructure, into the Industry Fund, in the countryside, to which the source is, from where the resource and resource use comes. Part of it is to go to the countryside, and they should have even more self - experience on this matter. how they are taken into account by local authorities. [[The president calls.]] I hope that bill comes as soon as possible here from a seafaring minister so that we can discuss greater authority and increased authority and self-determination to the rural communities themselves in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u56	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u57	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for representing this case today. To start with the positive notes, I can agree with all the main objectives of the bill. Like what? paritaprevir I've been interested in this case for a long time in the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. I think this was the first case where I made myself available on the political scene. I think the first article I wrote about politics was about this. I have long felt that it is an important goal to settle the voting rights. I am, however, and maybe I can bring it in later in these discussions, not necessarily on the right path is to make the country a single ideal. For the bill we have here, I might want to ask you why. A senator's decision on whether or not to appoint a member of the Parliament should be made as in the bill itself. This is where a change of 1st is put. Count 9. An election-shaped, but at 8. ... ifI recall correctly, the number of members of Congress is expressed in each district. The government of the land is certainly left to the end of the election, to settle, or between elections. I would have thought that if they were moving the terms of election law, it would be natural for me to step up and try to implement any change I might hear. A senator and her party members are making a suggestion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir As I express my joy that we have often discussed this and have basically agreed on this approach, the annual Ármannsson of man is very much concerned with this sharp yet perfunctory question. And I'm especially happy for it. Flare is the nerve. So I'll answer it exactly as a dog. A senator spoke about the approach to 9th. ... whichwegoto. 8. gr., we thought it over eventually so we were trying to get this prince through, get it into the discussion. Then it is natural, such as the Management Board, to determine the best way to export. She has the freedom to do so. I wouldn't make a lot of disagreement about it if the way was right. A senator would be gone. The main thing in my mind is that the case gets paid materially, that it goes on the course that we do at the council so well, i.e. to improve and strengthen matters. I have to say, we took the course that we took wisely at this point, to draw it out in this way. But at the same time, I say I understand the approach. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u59	V.E.G. President. The simple way to get close to this, if the bill's objective is to match the voting rights between terms, it is, of course, just to share the terms in the districts in accordance with the number of voters in the terms. That would mean 8 pence. it would be changed that those of the Northwestern districts would be 5, 7 for the Northeast District, 9 for the South Sea, probably 12 for the city of Reykjavík and 18 for the Southwestern District. Anyway, it's my calculations on the back of the napkin. I think I know what. Councilmen at the excrement can consult some mathematicians who could implement this. Sometime, mathematicians were a council member. Of course, this could be used in this way. It would be more clean to put forth the suggestion in such a way that it is simply said what to give it back. To this I would like to reiterate what I said, that I thank you. A senator for raising an issue on his main objective. [[The president calls.]] But I'd say I thought the bill it would need some consideration for before it would be settled from the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u60	A respectable president. Yes, it is very clear that the development of the bill is just so that the council can get it on a perennial subject to this fundamental matter, this prince's business, to be paid materially, so we don't always push it away. Then it's never discussed here except maybe once in terms. At the same time, I would like to reiterate my frustration by working the prefects in the very presence of a slow level of vote. That's what hurts. I'm sorry to experience the agreement that we made at the beginning of the terms of the season is to lead to the fact that the fundamental issues are really unsettled in a garden.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u61	Madam President. First, I want to say thank you for your fine speech and for the most excellent speech you've ever had. A senator I would like to agree with in all the basics. But there was one thing I cut, and this may not be criticism, but a reversal of friendship. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, spoke of the preposterous idea that local council members could always take better care of the country. She didn't exactly use those words, but she's absolutely right. There is no law that says that people from the capital area cannot care for, for example. Work or transportation as well or better as vice versa. In this context, you should point out how this case affects the matter of Congress. Our being divided into a district makes it appear that only two members of the capital sector are on the job committee and only three members of the capital area on the environment and transport committee. At the same time, it is not uncommon, and I say this from personal experience, that if the members of the country's settlements are too much too much to focus on the entire economy of the country, even foreign affairs and similar, if they are not diligent enough to perform so-called ballots, they will be allowed to do it. If they not only focus on the interests of certain terms but also on the whole, they will receive certain shorts. This dynamite is something we also need to address and address in these matters so that all members of the council are members of the nation, always.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u62	A respectable president. This was a very interesting introduction and, of course, something to include in the discussion. I've been watching what. Senator. We first met at a time when it was. A senator worked hard at FabLab's in the Western Islands, and I arrived as a minister. Hv. A senator has just gained experience and knowledge through the years to advance the interests of the South Sea and the interests of the collective, to draw out the knowledge and experience he received through innovations, etc. In the Western Islands, from the work he has performed in many places. This has helped the rest too. That's how I feel about regional district council members being able to care for the rest too. People need to realize that this is how they can work. The point is that we draw out the empathy that I feel so important about, that people in the country will identify with us who live here, and we who live here will. We need to do better, work harder. It's a rule here, these unregistered rules I spoke about earlier, that the non-contracted members of the local council are not allowed access to formal meeting council members with the world's top economists in the district. I think it's pathetic. I think this ancient rule, and I would have liked to see groups, though they're dog-old, take a little lead, show a measure of perspective by saying, "Hey, change this arrangement. If you're back for films, you're ready to join us in the East. The north country, understand that we need the airport in Akureyri, understand that we need better power circuits at the Landsnet, on the north, east, or west, then join us. And we do. [[The president calls.]] That's how we're supposed to get all future senators to work when they come to this hall, so they're members of the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u63	Madam President. You're right. It is important that in the matter of Congress there are always wide - wide fables of senators, those representing the nation come from all places with experience and experience. This is just one of the things that may be more attainable by an equation of vote. So there is a very good goal. Similarly, I think it is necessary for us in the Agency to take pride in trying to break this up. Transport matters are important to the capital area, and they have been falling apart for a very long time because transport is always too important. Similarly, there are foreign trades that are even more important to the region than the capital. This balance always needs to be found. All I'm trying to point out here, it's not even an answer, it's an introduction, it's that we also need to change the culture of the house, not just the vote. But let's just start off with a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u64	Madam President. That's exactly what it is, new classes, different categories, promote traditional cultures. I think all the environment will do well by asking myself: " Is what we have built up in recent years and decades, even centuries, the only real and proper arrangement? Does it care for today's needs, anywhere in the country? It's a question we really need to ask ourselves, I agree with it by reason. Senator. But first and last, this is a matter we will discuss with a prince. This is a matter of principle, and I sincerely hope that there will be progress and objective and good publicity on a administrative and surveillance committee that I understand will be involved. I look forward to having a chance to discuss the matter again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u65	A respectable president. The vote is the foundation of democracy. This court is holy and plays a fundamental role in our performance that the nation is allowed to select its representatives at the council, select representatives in the country government, and participate in national pay. Of course, this right involves not only right but also certain civil obligations. As a nation, we have been proud of a good vote, and we want it to remain good. I think we're aware of as a nation that the right to vote has a deep meaning and value, and in circumstances like the ones we're facing right now, all of us should be aware that it is ours to protect the democracy. As a nation, we have fought for independence. The Republic of Germany may have been the largest formal step toward independence, and then we followed up after 1944 by breaking off the final relationship with Denmark and forming an independent republic. We all know that story, that was done on the Þinga, on the day of the birth of Jón the son of Sigurðsson, June 17. But for a long time, for hundreds of years before, we lived in a foreign - king's monarchy, but we now enjoyed independence in our own nation. This is a remarkable story, but in our individual republic in Iceland, we're going to take the last step in this relationship, which is to ensure the equalness of votes, that one man has one vote. I often like when you're looking at these things, trying to look at them from a different direction. What would we say if this were tied in the law of the law to the vote of a man was more than a woman's vote? I think that's how we should approach this matter, maybe turn the burden of evidence on us. This is not an obvious conclusion, nor is it absolute, that one man does not have one vote. Then the argument needs to be examined, and it has to be reasoned specifically that we are going to do this, not the rule as it is facing us: one man, one vote. Just as it seems unreasonable, and I hope that all the people would think it would be absurd, that a man's vote outweighs a woman's vote can also not make the vote of one man outweighs another. Each man has a right to one vote. It cannot be overlooked that this is not just a matter of election law. This is not just a question of how we have framed our rule. We're dealing with basic human rights. The European Council's Committee for Democracy, by law, the Venice Committee, has issued rules on good campaign practices. It speaks of ensuring that there is an equilibrium of votes, that there are in general no above 10%, not exceeding 15%, except under very special circumstances. True, this may not be achieved in all cases and at all times, but it is absolutely clear that a state should seek it as best they can. In Iceland, however, the difference between voters is usually just under 100%. President. It's not a new story that fought for an even vote in Iceland. Likely, that story will be 170 years old. After our independence struggle began and a century before the Republic's establishment, Brynjólfur Pétursson, a Polynister, and a lawyer, spoke for such reforms. I also want to quote Hannes Hafsteinn, who warned of the dangers of the Democracy. He said that in order to establish an equality to the effects of legislation and national government, it is a clear contradiction if there is not also some improvement in the great discrimination that had been in what the votes have been, so that voters get as equal as possible, also in that respect. That would've been really bad. That was the year 1914. But balance is not only a clear goal of strengthening democracy and ensuring the right of people regardless of their gender, their economic status, their role in a nation's grand purpose, their growing empathy in the community, and, of course, this is an obvious justice issue. Yet, fellow feeling may be the value we have held in high regard in today's battle against a low - virus pandemic, which has had a heavy impact on our nation's health, our economic situation, and resulting in widespread social consequences for others like a nation's well - being. In the face of this project, we have met as a nation, and the essentials of success, we know, and we are constantly being held together as one nation. I think that should be a prerequisite in all the conversation that we will hopefully have on this matter, that, after all, we are just one nation in one country. I understand those who are concerned about changing in this regard as far as the country is concerned. Of course, it is very important to protect the country, not just for its own settlements, but for the whole country and its entire nation. There I see the role of all of us members of the council so that we are all, and shall all be, members of the whole country. It is all of us to care for the interests of the people of the whole country, to be awakened and asleep in the public interest beyond our personal interests, to be members of the nation of all nations. It is of great importance that we from the capital area be aware of this and that we speak as much of the city's population as we do in both directions. While I have great sympathy for these concerns, I think that when we stumble and see what way we're choosing to defend the settlements of the country, it's not the right thing to be chosen, it's not the right way to provide the interest of the country to do it through an inconsistencies. I find it hard to agree with it and cannot agree that the way to defend the country's settlements is through inflexibility, to give so unevenly, where it actually shows that it simply goes against democracy's rules. The way to that end is much more the ideologies, and by the approach of the entire assembly and the people of the nation, that its members are caring for the interests of the people of all nations, that they are united with all our ideologies and politics, and therefore the whole nation should be able to unite in such a justice affair. The way we sometimes bridge an unpleasant gap, and, in all respects, unnecessary gaps, between capital and national settlements will not be resolved with an uneven vote. There we simply need to be able to communicate as one nation in one country. It's not supposed to be complicated in itself, and it's a question of thought, question of approach, question of politics, and question about a new route. The interests of the country are, in particular, concealed in this, my opinion, that all members of Congress begin to view themselves as representatives of the entire nation. That's what we've done at the Cradle. President. We are independent from Dana 1944. It was a remarkable story and beautiful, and now it is time to take the final step in our independence struggle with this justice, in ensuring a more equal measure, and finally, hopefully, always the right of all the people of the land to select themselves as members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u66	A respectable president. One of the things that I think is one of the best at the council, after I've changed the field of work in old age and came here, is that you meet here and work with people you probably didn't have the option to work with, and probably had never met, people who are different from yourself, think differently from you, have a different background, even as well as other ideals and ways of life than you. Having contact with people in such a situation will enrich you. Most important, there are people here who have their commission from voters who may be other voters than the ones I have authorized. Senators who are not authorized by me do not depend on me whether they sit here and so on the streets. This is of great importance and is among those who make this most of a meeting, i.e. gathering people from different backgrounds and working with legislatures. However, the authority that these people have to make must be clear. An overall rate of votes must help to make the commission more unambiguous than at present. Even if it wasn't for that reason, I think it's a good thing and a lot to work here. I stand here as a representative of an equal. They have been in many categories, and I would not last the day to trace them all. However, I would like to remind you that the officers of the United States have delivered similar cases over the years, last not long ago, in 2015. Then Björgvin G. Sigurðsson, Róbert Marshall, Össur Skarphéðinsson, and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir made a similar case of making the country one of the ideals. Perhaps there is no reason to assume that Björgvin G. Sigurðsson was then a member of the United States council as somehow, by default, I think I was afraid to mention something earlier in another very good speech. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Indeed, the record reaches as far as the United Nations, as it is traced into a report, and after the International Assembly was rebuilt, it may be especially similar in 1927 when the ballot ships were under attack. The Héðinn of Valdimarsson, then a member of the Democratic Party, gave a bill that the country would be one of the ideals. I believe The Héðinn was the first cohesor, that he was actually the first member of the United States Congress. He is the senator who is trying to unite Icelandic socialist and socialists in one category, and this story, in fact, ends up being on its own. But that's another story. In 1927, he gave as his own private bill to the administrative law that the land became one district. And he stressed that equal rights to election is human rights that could not be shared and could not be shared. He says even. In a paper with the bill, by permission of the President: ▪ Since the ideal decree has been largely maintained, the result is that each voter in some elections has a multifold impact on the votes of the voter living in other terms, and thereby a multifold effect on the whole country's rule. According to the anthropological teaching of Congress, all the adults in the country should have equal influence in these matters, and in the civilized lands they will bend so far from that goal as far as land is concerned. This is coming and getting very different on the side of society, where the work people have gathered to the sea, and that is therefore the most labore people, who pay off the outmoded ideals directive... That's what the Hin Héðinn said. True, this has changed since then, and it is not as loud as it was in those years. However, I would like to interrupt a conference talk that the Héðinn Tower thought about because I believe that what he said is still very important in the discussion. He has reasons why the election ships are out - of - date, speaking about changes in business. He talks a little about the rate elections and the qualifications but rejects them. Then, with the permission of a president, he says: To avoid these defects, there is only one reliable advice: to make the country as much as one individual thing, such as it is now taking place. correspondent in Ireland There was no sign of any migration within the country. Each voter always held his head against the others, and each party came in proportion to his own people in the country. I guess it won't be popular with some guys. Even those who have found out for the sake of one thing, that they are well known in their own mischief. But with the new proposal, they came forth alone as members of the council who are noted in many parts of the land. If it were a guarantee that more qualified men were elected. They would have to account for their actions in front of all the people, and they would then disappear. In 1927, The Watchman's son Valdimarsson said this, and I still feel that this is true, as well as that of another leader of the Team, Jón Baldvinsson, in a booklet he wrote on this subject in 1932. A final statement states that by making the country as much as one district, it was granted to the president: To influence the order of the General Assembly, no matter where they live,... accepted on a table of just like voters. And the most common of them shall fall, that the common people shall be represented for a certain number of squares of more and less barren lands, and of the glaciers, and of the desolate lands; and they shall be representatives of the people, the representatives of the people that dwell in the land. Since then, it has been a fight of equal superiority, and it is a reason for joy that other classes join in this fight. Of course, we support it. All I'd like to do is take part in the fine case that Björgvin G., Sigurðsson, the then members of the United States, and his associates gave in 2015. They mention some of the benefits of being one of the ideals of the country, mentioning four terms that I think are at least four. Thoughtful. They are, by permission of the President: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. The absolute equation between voters and votes is no longer present. 2. Political groups receive the number of members of Congress that voted for them. 3. Senators are guided by the overall interests of their jobs, not by narrow terms. 4. The election system is simple and easily understood. I'm not going to stretch out my paw here but to finish this, let me remind you that in the new constitution, now so called after the council finishes work and approval, it is in its 40th chapter. cope with this problem. I'd like to read what it says and leave it here, with president's permission: At the General Assembly, 63 senators have a secret election for four years. The terms of voters all over the country weigh as much as possible. It is permitted to divide the country into a nationality. Lists are offered in votes. They may be non-randomized or grouped. The candidate may be on more than one list of the same political parties. A dresser can select a list or individual candidates in a personal contract. The law can determine whether or to what extent to select future candidates from more than one list. The distribution of the members of the Parliament should be in full agreement with the vote of political parties, lists, and candidates. The terms of election should advise on how to contribute as equal to the proportion of women and men at the General Assembly. The adjustment in terms of terms, the proposal for the distribution of Parliamentarians and the rules for proposals recommended in the law will only be carried out with the approval of the 3/5 part vote at the General Assembly. Such changes do not occur until one year after validation. Further rules of universal elections shall be set in the law. ◯ I believe that in these proposals, which later went through work at the General Assembly, there is something that we should be able to work with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm going to discuss the general issues of the subject and the historical reviews and the like, but whatever. paritaprevir But Guðmundur Andri Thorsson ended up giving me an answer. First, I wanted to say, because a man has become uncomfortable with many things involved in the history of this case, that he has suffered. A senator read up here wasn't a proposal of the administration like it came from a board of administration but suggested a greater part of the management and monitoring committee submitted at the beginning of March 2013, after a considerable circle has taken place. What I wanted to ask you. The senator was, just because he opened up the matter, even though it has nothing to do with the matter we are discussing today, whether he thinks it is a requirement he is referring to - and it could apply to some 40th grade. in the motion of a greater part of the Commission and monitoring committee from March 2013 or a proposal from summer 2011 - as suggested by all the objectives and conditions and regulations, it is clear enough to be included in the constitution of the General election.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u68	A respectable president. In fact, I felt that I specifically stated that it was after the council had taken care of it and applied it. About the fact that the law is clear enough, I've put it this way, so I thought there was something there to work with. I don't think there's any way you can interfere with this. However, I believe democracy is similar and very important that the rules are somewhat flexible simply because human life and society are flexible and so on. The law needs to be such that it makes it possible for democracy to take its course in the most efficient and reasonable way. Therefore, I'm not sure that there is necessarily a goal for the letter of the law to be, like the other. A senator chooses to use the word, clearly. Perhaps I would rather use the word "depressive " and" depressed " in that he cannot respond to new and changing circumstances in a society characterized by great mobility.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u69	Mr. President. Everything is true and true. One senator says that, of course, there will probably be a late vote in the Constitution of elections to the Generals, which will empty the discussion once or for all, or is intended to resolve matters completely. However, I believe that if we're on the other side moving the constitutions of elections to the Generals then it will not only do, as was done in the proposals of a administrative body, and, in fact, repeated by a greater part of the administration and monitoring committees, to cast in all sorts of ideas and in some cases rather vague policies without taking sides on how to change the system. It's, for example. The possibility of having both the land as a country or as a country in terms of its own. It is offered, in view of this expression, different individualizations, not answering how and some other goals, have been made without the reality of the matter. All I'm saying is for my part that I thought that if the Constitution of elections began to be changed, we'd have to have a clear frame, not just a collection of ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I think it's a good frame, and it's pretty clear, but he offered a certain flexibility. I think flexibility is positive. I think inflexibility is negative. While this procedure is certainly left to be written, three fifth rules are needed to make rules. It also means that changes would not be made until one year after validation, so there is flexibility in it as well. I think it's good for voters to have a chance. In elections, voters are saying their thoughts. They are trying to select candidates and to select representatives who represent their own views of life. They're giving their legal commission. One of the most important trust spots in society is that only in general do elections. That is a difficult position of trust. It is very important, then, that the voters have a number of possibilities beyond what is currently available. Let us not forget that we now live in a situation that I think is me and myself. A senator argues with dissatisfaction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u71	Madam President. In the beginning, I want to make a confession that I used my answer before what I did. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson to go by no means to call attention to one set of rules in the motion of a government body that I think is a frightening bullshit. It had nothing to do with a talk. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Thorsson son of Thor, he just gave me a chance to take this curve into the discussion. But just so this discussion is emptied, I think it's 39. gr. the proposed administration body of governance, which became a factor of 40 percent. in the proposal of a greater part of the Commission and monitoring committee in the spring of 2013, an example of a case that makes it possible for me to take these suggestions and accept them differently than to make significant changes, and can be reviewed for the team. But this law, at least as it is proposed to the Council of Control and then to propose a greater part of the management and monitoring committee, when she had made some circles around it, is the case by which it would be unacceptable in my opinion to accept it. That is where I come to what may be more relevant to the speech given. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Andri, son of Thorsson, which is the basic question, of course not the subject of the bill we are discussing here today. It is whether the land should be one of the ideals or whether it should be the ideal divider. I said in answer to what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir that I thought it was desirable, positive, and good goals and would like to work on the level of voting rights. But I don't think that making this country one outstanding thing is desirable based on other reasons. There are many factors that I could discuss long ago, but perhaps in short, because that is not the subject of today's discussion. There is no suggestion here to make the country one outstanding example. There are two things that get in my mind in that relationship, perhaps more, but there are mostly two things I see that are not so easy on me that this country is one of the ideals. On the one hand, I think there's an even greater connection between voter and senator or future candidates. I think it matters that there is a direct, direct relationship between the voter and the senator. While it is up to each of us to fulfill his role as a senator or candidate, I worry that the concept of one outstanding example will make the connection less personal. Of course, people may come and point to lands around us where one member serves a vote that is the same size as the whole voter band of Icelanders, where tens of thousands are behind one member or even hundreds of thousands of people in larger lands. But at any rate, I think there will be a possibility that this direct relationship between the voter and the senator will be broken. At least it extends. In some respects, these connections are local. In some ways they depend on other laws from professions, background in other respects, etc. But I think there is a flaw in making the country as much as one thing, that it reduces this relationship. On the one hand, it is also a defect in the country's becoming a single ideal, with a certain risk of an increase in the level of media control. Today it is so that by having the ideals a few, you might say that the power media in categories, the power to select the candidates is distributed, it's not in one place. It's a lot of places, and I think it's an option too. A senator in a specific district may, if he has a sound foundation among his voters, hold his post, even if he is disturbed by a party president or some group elsewhere. So I think this also affects the independence of members and is a matter of power ratios between the medium-directed groups and the more widely distributed powers, which are widely organized according to the ideals. The third thing I'd like to mention, just because I've entered these paths, is what was actually ousted to some extent before, i.e. that by being a single district, there is a danger of dissociating. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir felt that there was no problem with conversation. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, if I recall correctly, because it had become reality anyway, that would be so many classes at council. Of course, if we create a scale of election systems in different countries, they are very different, in fact, very few countries have the country as a single ideal. I remember Israel in that regard. I don't remember many others. But the danger is that there will be a large number of categories that make the political activities of the Assembly more complex. Some feel that it is okay, but it makes it more complicated. It is harder to form what we can call a more functional section of Congress where there are many groups, rather than where an election system leads to few. Our system involves a compromise between these views. There are few ideals, relatively large, that do not rule out smaller categories, yet they have a certain barrier to being overly classed. This is a point I wanted to mention because people had been discussing making the country as much as possible. Then will I be quick to consider such a matter, as the above. I'm glad to hear it. Parliaments of the Convention place this matter on the program for discussion. I agree with its primary objectives in my heart, but I don't think it's going the right way to do this in the way that this is done here. I just wanted to reiterate what I said before in answer to the question that if it's intended to match a vote on the basis of existing constitutions and with minimal changes to the current election laws, we'd need to examine, not just 1. Count 9. It's also 8. where there is a state of the assembly seat, the districts are included. Then, according to my calculations on the back of a servene, the conclusion is that I'm from an ancient language department but not a math department, but may add and share, that it was proposed in the election law that after the conversion there were five Senate seats in the Northwestern district, seven in the Northeast District, nine in the South Cathedral, 12 in the separately elected district of Reykjavík, and then 18 in the Midwest. So, of course, there would be a significant change, even though it was not too far off to wipe out the seats in the settlements. But if it starts to level the voting rights, it will, of course, reduce them to smaller terms and increase to the southwestern corner, especially in the southwestern district of population growth in recent years. As to that, I'd like to say that this may lead to a certain calculation problem that I'm not aware of, whether this change or transfer between terms would have some effect on the distribution between classes. Today, according to the Constitution and the votes that are due to change in 1999, the objective of these changes is to balance the magnitude of the above votes so that there would not be more than one in two. In the past, it could be one in four, like a cot. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. So it was a significant improvement that took place at the turn of the century. That was the second primary objective. But it was also a goal that may not have reached 100%, but in some cases, it was to create an election system that made it possible for groups to obtain representatives at the General Assembly in some way in line with their votepower when a national election was observed. Somehow, I say, because there can be situations that make it a mistake. But we can say that in elections held after this election, it has usually been so that the number of members of Congress has actually reflected some of the things they have received on national levels. I tell them, however, in advance, that in elections where very many classes have presented them, however, several votes have fallen dead, so that it hasn't in all elections--I especially remember the elections of 2013 where, certainly, there were certain errors in this, especially because there were so many votes that died because of a number of small categories. If they cleaned up and agreed to this bill of restoration the way it is, I don't really know if it would somehow slip. That it doesn't necessarily have to, some calculator would have to lie over it. In any case, I feel that the subject of the bill needs to be approached and the goal of the bill in some way other than that. And while I'm the first man to rise up on my backs and to argue that the election is being done with the Constitution, I think it's inevitable if you intend to make a basic change in the terms and elections of the country's elections for the Generals, to go to church, which is the constitution that involves taking a stand on whether the country should be divided into more votes or to be one of the ideals. I think that at such a job, people would also need to decide whether or not a law on personal politics should arise, and other factors that are certainly mentioned in the proposals of the Government and the suggestions that a greater part of the administration and monitoring committees worked out from them in their own time. The notice of the other and these objects is noted, and either it is permitted to do this, not necessarily, or it can be done in one way or another. I think if we're going to meet these matters as a body of Congress, we're not supposed to accept some compromise that involves that everything is thrown up as a possibility, not taking a stand on one or another. I think that if we're going to change these terms, both into the constitution and then into the election law, we need to have a fairly clear picture of the conclusions we want to get, the results we want to get from this. The implementation of election regulations and such must always be in the votes of itself, but the Constitution has to be at least to take a stand on the main issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Prehistoric Birgir of the Ármannsson. It may have been a very long entrance that went on other points than the ones involved in the bill itself, here was the torn history of the Council of Government, we traveled far and wide throughout the country, discussing the country as an ideal but none of this, as he rightly points out, the subject of the bill. I hear he's positive and supportive, according to what he says, his primary objective. True, he speaks of himself as not a calculator and of ancient languages. The one standing here shares the experience with him, that of having sat in the ancient language department, perhaps in the wide picture, in which it is intersected. But I must say that the Senator's words give me reason for optimism about the progress of the case because I view it as a matter of human rights and a matter of principle. The Senator speaks in a way that he favors the goal, but he may have approached it in another way. It is always interesting to hear members of the Independence Party opening up their desire even to change the terms of the Constitution, but this bill does not mean that they need it. I see this so that if we agree that this is a fair matter, that this is a legal step, that this is a matter of human rights and fundamentals, which they agree to in principle, it is an application matter and we are at the first point of the political conversation here, and we are well able to work together that it may become a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u73	V.E.G. President. If we were to stick to the discussion on this bill as such, I would say that there is a beginning of some conversation about these matters, and it would be very interesting to go on a more detailed application of them. On the other hand, I think it's kind of twisted, as I may have come in a polite way here. Something is being cast up without a complete break, and this would have been strengthened if it had been better implemented in that respect, i.e. just by writing out what the change will be expected. I think that even if we're going to be a national government general, and we're going to do it according to the current arrangement, to bring perhaps one Senate seat between the terms of population growth or the reduction between elections, the change here is much bigger than it can be said: the government can only be calculated, as is done in the bill. I think that would be normal, as I mentioned earlier, why. Senator, going to change 8. so that the results can be tried on the basis of non-national proposals for the national government to calculate the level of votes. This, of course, can be discussed at the council. Then I would also state whether the aspect of the case has been considered that meets the approval of the Constitution to maintain a balance between categories, so that groups will receive numbers of members in full agreement with nationally final elections. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of an Ármannsson answered. I'd like to start with the point that I ended my first answer to: If we agree that not only the goal but also the change and the outcome of that will be good, then it is worth the conversation to try to get this right through. Hv. In his earlier story, a senator mentioned that he saw the matter in a way that involved a compromise. It is in my mind that we cannot agree in any way that we are setting up on an unbacked cake. It's not like that, because this is taking a big, important step to achieve what I think is indistinguishable justice, that the force of our votes is the same. Regarding the import, whether it should be totally subjugated: The bill provides a legal framework for what is being laid down and how to do so. Hv. A senator mentioned 8 gr. Here, of course, this is due to the division between terms of elections and is always to some extent floating because it changes to after the election each time and reflects the movement of people between parts of the country so that, although they are going to figure out exactly how the chairs are divided, it is not completely engraved. I think the Senator needs to answer this rather, because he says that this will be an opportunity: If he is in favor of the goal, is he willing to change the order of action so that we will achieve the goal that the votes of men are more equal than they are today? [[The president calls.]] That's the big question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u75	Mr. President. Yeah, well, I'm strongly at the conclusion that there's a vote right for what's going on today. However, I draw attention to the fact that it is very strange to let up 8. stand still with the list of panel seats, which can be found if the change is known to be in the bill on 1 mg. 9. g., it severely interferes, not with one place being moved, but with the result, for example. were bringing five new seats to the Southwestern district, which the Southwestern-election situation is certainly there, but it's strange enough not to take the step to the full. That's why I spoke in that relationship about a half-baked cake. However, regarding other things that need to be calculated from this, and just to see if the route is just successful, of course, what I mentioned earlier should also be considered as to whether this would interfere with the possibility of equalizing between classes. It is also of utmost importance that the outcome of a national election is reflected in a Senate hall. The dramatic change that took place in 1999, which was first tested in the 2003 election, was that the requirement for the party's strength to be met was in line with their national votes. It is achieved by a variety of complex algorithms that enable some classes to receive much of some kind of equation seat, others smaller, and may influence the way they all become, and that is a factor to be considered if we are to consider changes on the basis of this bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u76	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize social security legislation, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes, loss of pension due to population. A moving man in addition to me is Inga Sæland. The bill is as follows: At 1st. 17th par. The law adds a new sentence, as follows: The rights of the Icelandic citizen should not be restricted to an alien resident except to the extent that he enjoys financial rights for his residence. This law has already been valid. The right to social security in Iceland is impaired if the loyal one was living abroad between 16 and 67 years of age. So a number of people suffer from a decrease in their pensions because of living abroad. These declines are being carried out today regardless of whether people have the right to pay from a foreign state because of their dwelling there. Over the past few years, there has been much debate between government and pension workers. The method used by the U.S.A.S.S.A. to determine a farm - level ratio was placed under the emissary of the Allegler's agent and he felt that the method was illegal. In addition, the County Court of Reykjavík came to the conclusion in summer that there had been a limit to the development of specific assistance since the Minister's Regulation has cleared up. After the great struggle of older citizens, the Allied Council adopted social support for the elderly. They provide the elderly with a right to forward support of up to 90% of the total pension. This additional support is given to those who live abroad who are not entitled to a full pension. Despite providing a welcome assistance, the requirements for assistance are strict. Here again, a crown is in favor of a dollar. As a result of the struggle by pensioners against governments, many have been corrected, which for years passed illegally. However, it remains that in many cases there is a large decrease in social security spending due to the living of pensioners abroad. In addition, those who receive additional support are those who receive only 90% of their rights. In order for righteousness to be accomplished, the law has to be changed. In 1st. 17th par. The law on social security determines the effect of busier pensioners on his right to pension. Other legal procedures refer to the rules presented in Article 17. Based on the same rules, it is possible to calculate the disability intensification, age-related biofuels, and income insurance. The formula used in 1 mg. 17th par. The law proposes that the full rights of the pension will be obtained by a country in at least 40 calendars between 16 and 67 years of age. If the person has lived in this country for less than 40 years during the specified period, his rights will be limited according to this. These impairments are carried out regardless of whether the domestic population of the abroad provides similar financial rights. For 68th. the Act on Social Security, it is discussed that it is permitted to negotiate between countries on how to determine people's rights from farm time. Iceland has made such agreements with several states and between EU countries it is a contract that states that rights are not lost by transport to another EEA. It remains that many countries have not made such agreements with Iceland. For example, if a person has been living in the United States for years, the right to disability may be reduced, although the person may have been first regarded as an invalid after moving back to Iceland. In such cases, the individual is not entitled to the equivalent of money from abroad and from the one he loses. This is nothing more than discrimination on the basis of a farm and disqualifys the Constitution's equalitarian rule. It is one thing that pensions are reduced because of foreign pensions, but when pensions are impaired simply because a person has been living in another country for a time, it is nothing but discrimination. To prevent such discrimination, it is suggested that only social security rights be impaired when it is clear that the person is entitled to and receive comparable rights abroad because of living abroad. In this way, brutal habitats and pensions in the past would be prevented, not 90%, but 100%, of their rights in a foreign land. A respectable president. This spring was adopted at the 666th Council, a bill for social support to the elderly. I think a certain message was included in this amazing figure in the case, 666, because the main thing was wrong. The situation was addressed and corrected, but only for the elderly. Despair was left behind. Where's the equality? Where is it that everyone is equal to law? What's with the constitution? How, once more, can you use this gross discrimination? What was even more surprising was that those who land in poor quarters for some reason are only 90% citizens. They're going to get 90% of a minimum pension. The most remarkable thing about all of this is that in order to establish the 90% rule, the U.S. National Security System had to be changed. They simply had to create a system. And how much did it cost? Yes, in the treatment of the case, it was found that making this system took some 40 to50 million. The situation also showed that it was probably half as cheap, that the state could save half of the 40- susceptibility, that simply allowing these people to get 100% rights as it should, not to discriminate. But no, the current government was much more willing to pay extra, even to a third of tens of millions or more, just to receive a dollar back. It is quite remarkable that decades have been broken by these rights of microenergy pensioners and pensioners. General Assembly attorney made this clear in his day, No. 8955/2016, this was an illegal impairment. As noted, the district court also found that these impairments did not meet laws. This was not changed, however, even though it had not cost the State any dark sum and was merely a matter of human rights. To do this properly, see to it once and for all, that there must be no discrimination, that one who has the worst in the community has the worst, because this is the one who has the worst. There's a group of people here who were supposed to live at 60,000,400,000 bucks. per month. Everyone realizes that it is impossible and therefore was the only way to direct them to social benefits. That way, however, people could not take advantage of their marriage mate. At that time, they were assessed, so the spouse should make arrangements and not receive anything. This is all there is to gross financial violence. The U.S. Department of espionage, by permission of Presidents, sent in a review of the unjudged 666: ▪ With the bill, all pension recipients are not being guaranteed minimum insurance, as is the reason given below. It must also be noted that the proposed impairment rule is actually 100% impairment rule. It can only be seen that a cent in return will be turned into a pensioner's patients. Minimum insurance for microenergy and rehabilitation pensioners, 9 g. Law on Social Help, No. 99/2007, has also been reduced on the basis of former residences abroad, and individuals left in the same poverty. IN THE past years, adjustments have been made in meeting the group, with a simple breakdown of regulations. Later, the Treaty of the current government, which says, with the permission of a president: ◯ Especially needs to be considered for the status of children who live in poverty who are one of the most vulnerable groups in the community. We try such words as equality and child protection, but there are empty words because we always leave a certain group behind. Why? It's an incomprehensible phenomenon. In addition, with the permission of a president, we are told: So the bill welcomes this bill and expects a similar guarantee to be set up for microenergy pensioners. It is not by accident that the core of the UN's global objectives means that governments will not leave anyone behind and that the first global objective is to fight poverty. Is this what they're after? No. Surprisingly, violence continues because it appears in the bill adopted here, in 666, paragraph 7. I continue to read from the review of the Corporate Community, by permission of the President: A policy of ownership that is easy to adapt to the council. Seven. The bill is suggested not to provide additional support for the applicant's holdings in cash or stocks more than 4,000,000 dollars. According to the law, it seems that when an elderly person loses all rights under the law, he or she rises from 3,999,999 k. of 4,000,000. Instead of such an unattainable rule, the United States naturally considers the loss of support for property beyond certain property boundaries to be at one of the other's will for lawgivers to submit support according to the law in this way. A respectable president. I think we should be a little further developing on social security issues and people who have to live within the system in sickness and misery. This is true of much of the people, although, of course, there is a certain group of people who are good. It's supposed to be a celebration, but unfortunately, all too big a group has it pretty shitty. And we're still in that place right now. We can't even in the middle of a Covid epidemic make sure those groups are right, that the Constitution is under ban on discrimination. We leave sick people, motion - stricken, paralyzed in the unprecedented situation here. It's kind of no matter where you look in this unprecedented case, as in our bill of the people we're considering, we're dealing with the whole case, both with 100% of the senior citizens in this situation and with 100% of the micro-organism rules. There's no exception. No dollars against a dollar's impairment. Everyone knows we've been standing here after Congress trying to get this simple rule out, a dollar a penny. What did all the classes that came to these legislation in the last election promise? Every platoon promised to take a crown out of the bank. But did they? No. They looked at the promise so that it would be, not taking out a cent in return, but cutting it down to make it 65 in favor of a penny. That justice, 65 pennies versus a cent, could not even find its way into 666, a case that shows a criminal will of irresistibly willing to marry the one who has done so badly. In the review of the Corporate Community, it says under the permission of a president: ▪ No need for monitoring. Eight. The bill is expected to be on the land and abroad and the monitoring of the state insurance agency by traveling an elderly person. According to the IBI assessment, it is reasonable to agree on the rules of home law for fixed farms or the criteria for tax taxation taxation taxation taxation laws at the same time that the desired support by the law is required. What does this mean in English? Let's see if there's an 8. This unprecedented bill, adopted in spring, 666, says of a stay abroad: When a payer stays or plans to stay abroad for more than 90 days continuously or longer than 90 days during each 12-month period of payment, the commitment to support is lost. If the stay was intended to last longer than 90 consecutive days, the payment will drop from one month to the next month after the arrival of a foreign stay. In other cases, the payment fell from month to month after the stay of a foreign country to a total of 90 days or in a foreign country of 90 days during the period of payment. - Simple. It is mandatory to inform the government's National Insurance Office of a planned stay abroad before leaving, as well as the arrival of the country, cr. Also, Article 11. In the absence of information, the regulations of Article 10. as appropriate. It's brilliant. It's brilliant. A stór brother in a surveillance role has arranged for a certain group to leave the country only to report. The most remarkable thing is that their mate has to report. Where are we in the legal process? What's next? I thought we were in progress, but according to this, we're moving backwards in the unprecedented legal structure. They have to say that the law as it is has to be a disgrace to them. There is another factor in this. On April 13, 2015, a request for housing impairment was submitted and the subject was forethought. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir. Then who was she asking? Yes, Minister of Social Affairs at the time, Eygló Harðardóttur, of the advance class. The situation is very similar today. Aggressive, my ass. paritaprevir The Steinunn, Þóra Árnadóttir, is in the government and the Supreme Court. As a member of the Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs of Ásmundur Einar Daðason is in the advance. This was pointing to the tremendous injustice of the population. It was 2015. It shows that it does not seem to make any difference that the members of that body go to the government. Halfways are in this legal process because, as we have seen, at the time, the poor were left out, those who were to receive these reduced habitats adjusted. I'd like to state that it will give them the plus that benefits are increased by a large group of these people. Those who once had 60,000,700,000 a month went to 90% of minimum pension so that their status improved. Unfortunately, the minimum pension today is below poverty limits. The minimum pensions of older citizens are below poverty limits as well as disability. When someone is installed into 90% minimum of a dollar in return, they are being placed in plenty. People are being pulled out of total starvation, but they are still left in very poor condition. I wondered what the government was willing to do to clear out these inhibitions, up to 90%. In fact, they're saying to these people that there are 90% citizens, we're going to take your 10% right. And besides taking your 10% rights off, we're going to punish you more and we're going to put a dollar in front of a dollar. You don't have the right to go down to 65 bucks, let alone the fact that you will be completely decommissioned, as any group promised they would. But that promise has somehow been lost by the three government groups. As I've already noted, the most amazing thing in all of this is that men are willing to pay millions more just to get caught up with someone. In that light, I especially want to talk about what a state accountant was pointing out about this system. He says that the U.S. National Insurance Organization is a problem and there was a certain group in the system that didn't even get the right calculation. Some simply are not allowed to know their rights in the system. Then you have to ask yourself, " Why are we creating a system that is even worse and asking government insurance organization, which has a complicated system for which to create an extra system to calculate the nonsense in 90%? ' Everyone sees that it would be much easier and cheaper, except for being absolute justice, to let them get only 100%. The government would have saved. At least then, the person would be as well off as the rest, unless he was still having a dollar in front of a penny. It would also have been possible to show justice by lowering this to 65 dollars in comparison with a dollar. We could have said: " We're doing exactly what for everyone else, unless, of course, we're not fulfilling our promise to give up a penny in return. Therefore, this bill, the group of people, is now assigned to the welfare committee, where it will be considered. It's very simple. There can be no conflict, for this is a clean, righteous matter. We are to show our dignity once during this council and not take out any particular group and violate his rights, just because we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u77	Madam President. We have now listened to the first carrier of its excellent bill, change of social security law, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes, farm-based pension deficits. If he has the heart, thank you. In fact, it is happy that the bill has come out, and perhaps it is a late response to the calls for a changed time. Icelanders are experiencing epidemics, staying and living abroad. Also, Iceland has more and more people who are rooted elsewhere. This is therefore a matter of interest, both for the natives of Iceland and for the Icelanders, who are rooted in another country or country. It is a matter of justice and justice. It is the foundation of both oceans and countries and various borders. Mr. President. Icelanders can be found all over the earth. In many places, rumors get mixed up. In our small island, it is vital to go around and expand our vision, expand our education, add experience. All this association with other nations only strengthens the gene pool. There are over 46,000 Icelandic citizens with registered homes in foreign lands. Of course, most people are in the North, where most of them are in Denmark and then in Norway. More than 60% of the population of Iceland lives in the North countries. There are 20 states of Iceland, one of every type, and 108 of the 193 member states of the United Nations. This may therefore matter something in the context of what we are discussing today. Also, where people choose to live is the rights of the pension system. It doesn't matter where people choose to sit. It has its own meaning, e.g. America and Europe. Iceland has contracts with most of the welfare countries of pensions, either through the EEA, EFTA, or two-way contracts. Cutdowns, small information on pensions, or possibly no pensions would be concerned with people who have lived in countries other than those we've negotiated with. Hv. A transporter official, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, found that there was much doubt about whether this had to do with both the desperate and the pensioners. He claimed that this applies exclusively to a pensioner. I don't want to say anything about it, but it's serious if you do. Of course, it is a matter of righteousness. When people move from Iceland, it is important, as mentioned earlier, whether or not they move to EEA and whether social security contracts exist between Iceland and the country. A pensioner who moves to another EEA country keeps his pensions from a insurance agency while paying for social assistance, such as household support, falling off during transport. If the pensioner moves to a country that does not belong to the EEA, all payments will drop if there is no contract in the area of social security and must seek that right by other means. That's a lot to think about. Like what? A traveller entered was adopted in spring at the General Assembly on social support for the elderly, who was also a source of joy and the long fighting of older citizens. A significant group enjoys a very substantial share of pure poverty. The law gives us the right to provide support, up to 90% of the total amount of pension, such as pa·rou·siʹa. The carrier came on. That support is given to those who live abroad are not entitled to the full pension. It is necessary to ensure these partners' increased rights, up to 100%, in order to achieve full implementation. There's not much of a table to set when it comes to the payment of our pension insurance. This was a good first step, and the ice was broken, but we must not stop until we fully improve the interests of this group. Like what? The transferer entered has been successfully handled the algorithm to be applied. It has been confirmed before the court that the government's insurance agency was in that area. Hard work is required to calculate rights. This is particularly interesting and interesting in terms of micropigs. I have to admit, I thought I realized that this applies to both groups. There's a little work to be done in the 17th. The law. This article suggests that full rights to pension will be obtained by a country in at least 40 years, i.e. from 16◯67 years of age. And if the person has lived here for less, the relative rights will be impaired. Of course, we are always, as well, talking about the group of people who have a foreign background but who have lived and served here in the country for decades and who will surely receive civil rights and public social rights. Of course, we can also understand that in all cases - and we meditate on it, as well as on insurance agencies - that those who have lived or worked abroad may have earned the right to pension in that land. There are many cases of men who have earned a measure of rights in another country. But the same is always true of the rights, i.e. The terms of the contracts between countries. When applying for a pension from another EEA or U.S. country, an application is submitted to a insurance centre responsible for reaching the relevant institutions. But this does not apply to other countries outside the EU. The United States and Canada are divorced there. It requires that the individual attend their own rights without the means of insurance. That can certainly be a great turn for many. A respectable president. As I mentioned, there is some question as to whether this applies only to a pensioner and not to a cripple. I can't figure it out, and it's gonna be clear on the committee coverage. Hv. We have read a recent report on the services of the Agency and its dealings with its clients. There are many indications. Some of these are somewhat serious, especially in terms of too high the proportion of clients that need to be consulted by the Health Committee and in terms of a reinvestment agency. This may highlight what is stated in this report and what is being ripped down by a government accountant, whether it is proper to consider changing the law so that special laws on pensions and other forms of payment for disability and for those with impaired skills. It's such a big deal. Although we often talk about these two groups in the same breath, their speech is often very different, and it takes two approaches. Mr. President. I'm not going to have it all any further. The bill's contents are positive and upbuilding, and they fell for a long time to settle any doubt that may have existed. Hv. A transporter points to weakness. It is urgent to eliminate doubts as far as possible, that the rights are clear and that the individuals involved will receive reliable information and the efficient services of our local agency, which have this task. This has led to some failure, and the attitude faced by clients is not always what we want to see. So the Group of United Nations supports this bill and expects a lot of publicity on the welfare committee, which hopefully brings back a new product to the council as soon as possible so that we can accept it as a law from the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir He's the Guðjón and son of S. Brjánsson for his lawsuit. I'd like to take a short answer to settle any doubt. This unprecedented bill approved in spring, 666, was merely for older citizens. Similarly, those who receive additional support, only 90% of their rights, have been shown to receive a dollar in return. And the most serious thing about this is when they are placed in a certain national prison, they must not leave the country. In fact, they have to get their spouse to spy on them and let them know if they're going to leave the country for a long time, because they lose the rights that I would think were really just a violation of international law. I don't know how it's going to be possible. If those people who have been living in a pension system somewhere else in the North countries and they get some money from a pension system there, they'll be pulled away from here at home. So they won't be allowed here with a foreign pension. It's clear to You, No. 28 of the Councilroom 28, as it is now stated, is that disability is entering this system, that 90% of the rule disappears, and as much as a dollar pass will not be inside the system, so it will become a slightly human system. Yes, it is a question of 65 bucks, but I hope so much and fervently that we will see to it that it too goes out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson for his counter-sponsor. I'll repeat what I've said before, I'm disappointed if it's limited to a pensioner alone. It may be a complete misunderstanding, an error on my part. But that was my intention, and I don't think that's all that's normal. Hv. A senator points out that people are bound to some kind of economic situation. That's what we need to get rid of in our modern society. People want to make various arrangements for their lives. Although they do not have the opportunity to participate in professional activities, it is only natural for them to try to enjoy life in and out of countries and to have the freedom to do so. In terms of limitations, our natural struggle is that they will continue to be reduced and organized, but first verse 1 means that all pensioners, young and older, can subsidize their income, that they have income to support themselves who are beyond the poverty limit. We agree that this is the kind of life that we have to get accustomed to, that people have a work history both within the country and abroad. I believe this will be cut off by the rims and that it will be relatively reasonable in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm going to reiterate that the bill presented by the people's party is simply a matter of principle. This is true not only of microorganism but of older citizens but also of no distinction. A certain part would save the system to simplify things as we go along. When I talk about the savings the state's plan to install in the system about 90% of the rules, the cost was fixed at the beginning and then was to be fixed on what might be used to address the problems of disability. But there's something else I want to touch. Hv. A senator spoke of dividing social security laws with older citizens and disability. I don't know. If this government remained in power when the system was divided up, I fear that there would be a situation where the poor would simply be left behind. We saw in the spring bill that only older civilians were left behind. If the system was divided up, we would have to sort out that it would be quite clear that the groups could not be placed in the current situation, that a large group would have to live under poverty and be betrayed for all the increases for decades solely, apparently, to keep people in very poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. A merchant, Guðmundur Ingi, son of Kristinsson for a second answer. I can add little to this from the previous answer, unless I am the sure welfare committee, under strong control, taking hold of this matter. I allow me to refer to the report of the U.S. National Institutes of Insurance, as summarised in these two groups, often mentioned at the same time, even though there are very different, physical groups. Their advantages in legalization include, for example, very different. Every time we discuss these subjects and noses, the elderly, and the desperate ones at the same time, I think that it is not natural to have a meaningful discussion of their issues. But all of this is against civilians, and we have two parties to take care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u82	Mr. President. I recommend here for bill to legalize the income tax laws, No. 90/2003, the sales market of apartment and vacation houses, at the 115 Parliamentary Office, in trial 114. Transporters, as well as those words say, are why. The members of Jón Gunnarsson's son, Njáll Friðbertsson, Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Aarna, Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson, and Bryndís, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir. As the bill shows, a bill has been submitted in part before significant changes are made. Initially, it was only a matter of removing a so - called volume rule that I come to later. Now, we want importers to take further steps and to ensure that the same rules of sale of housing and sales profits from vacation homes and that sales funds do not interfere with social security laws, No. 100/2007. Today, for a long time, for decades, a part of the property of the people of the country has taken place in purchases and property of an apartment building, and in recent decades the same has been true of tens of thousands of Icelandic vacations. After working years, it is common for individuals to reduce housing and inflation of savings through property sales. The amount of money incorporated in this way is often intended to be used for the household's affairs as the night of life passes. Little wonder, then, that much of the older citizens who are retired and no longer enjoying employment were affected by the volume rule. The same is true of sales of vacation homes, but sales of them are entirely taxable. With this bill, the taxable taxes are dropped and the handling of sales from vacation homes and property and its property will be the same as that of housing. If the bill is legalized, the taxable market will be determined by the sale of housing and vacation housing only by the time of ownership, i.e. whether it lasted for two years or less, but not for a certain size at the same time. The objective of the bill is, therefore, to simplify the law on income taxes, tax control, but to meet older citizens' positions. In the 17th. a law on income taxes is a requirement for sales of housing. Salivation is a difference between sale prices and stock prices taking into account the expiry and previously obtained goods. Well, stock prices are expensive property. The principle is that if you've had the sold house for less than two years, it's considered profit from its sale for taxable pay on a year's sale. If you have had the sold home for two years or more, your profits are not taxable. The law applies only to the sale of human living quarters. In terms of tax law, this does not apply to an apartment house over a certain amount of size, for individuals 600 m3 and 1,200 m3 for couples, the amount of sales of the mostly taxable person is entirely required. Here's a suggestion that it be changed and taken away. In accordance with current laws, such as any capital gains that have to be paid a capital tax, economic profits are treated in accordance with local laws. Since capital gains affect the rights of an insurance agency, it is suggested that the same rules apply to sales of vacation homes and housing sales. So that the bill achieves its objective and does not result in the loss of sensibilities and disability pensions, it is proposed to change the law on income taxes in Article 1 and 5. The bill. Mr. President. I'm not gonna keep this case any further. It's a relatively simple bill. This is a fair matter to us transporters, and we expect it to be a way to pass through the council after standard treatment. After this discussion, Mr. President, I suggest the bill go to the highest level. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u83	Madam President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of professional democracy. The suggestion itself, the suggestion, is not complicated, and in itself it is not particularly radical. It's about the order of an Outfit, and I want to read it, with the permission of a president: The General concluded to hide a social and child-friendly minister to appoint a staff of the labour market members and the public to offer suggestions on how to increase democracy at work. In the line of work, the representatives of the National Association of Iceland, BSRB, the League of Colleges, the Association of Professional Life, the National Association, the Ministry for Presidency, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Department of Social Affairs, appoints the head of the task force. The Ministry pays expenses for the staff group and provides them with the facilities and necessary expert services. The Outfit shall submit no later than December 1, 2021 In other words, it is recommended that all those involved in these matters fit at the table and find out if and how best to conduct these matters, to increase the level of professional democracy. What is professional democracy? I hear that the president is wondering, so I'm going to try to explain it in a few words. In Icelandic labour markets, workers have made sure that their implementation through unions, which through collective agreements negotiate for purchases and fees in certain professions or at specific working places with employers or their organisations. Remuneration, work hours, coffee and lunch breaks, holiday rights, medical rights, etc. While collective agreements ensure generality and order, they do not guarantee a return to decision-making within the workplace, which certainly has a major impact on the lives of employees. This suggestion is intended to draw different people to the table to offer suggestions on how to improve democracy at work. Opponent views that are relevant, on the one hand, to the management rights of employers and to the other, to employees' self-control. It should then be noted that the proposals are not to be replaced or undermined by the Icelandic labour market model that has developed for over a century. It is important to ensure that the cohesive power and solidarity of the worker's union are held in high esteem as well as the labor movement's position. In many countries, labor unions are more common than in Iceland, and a growing proportion of employees in valuables have been seen, while the trend has been opposite in most Western lands. This position is important for us to stay here and expand. So these ideas are designed primarily to be an addition to the Icelandic workforce and to a team in its development. Increased democracy and transparency at work sites can be ensured by various means. These include the Agency's seat in the Commission and the monitoring management board, to enforce the employee's recruitment rights as well as the information rights of certain cases within an enterprise, e.g. for economic status and future plans and for staff to receive a certain proportion of profits or remuneration from an enterprise that can be used as an option. Both current legislation can be considered as well as different motivations, e.g. tax and other financial incentives to encourage companies to adopt democratic governance or management forms. It is desirable that different routes are checked and that experience with them is evaluated in terms of social, economic and environmental factors, is available. It is also important to examine how possible changes might affect the Icelandic labour market model. With the development of the fourth industrial revolution, it is reasonable to believe that increasing democracy in the labour market is more important when artificial intelligence and self - efficiency take over the role of man in increasing numbers. It is of great importance to working class members to take steps to allow them to establish business decisions on the induction of new technologies and thus give them the opportunity to enjoy the financial supplement. This might be worth the effort to make use of the worktime, increase the salary, increase security, and improve the working environment, and otherwise vote. In addition, knowledge from staff can be considered useful in creating a new technology, which could include: published by the European Commission. This is a gross review of ideas about increasing employment democracy, increasing democracy at work. I reiterate that this is not in any way a substitute for the labour market model, one of the basics of Icelandic society, but the contrary to its support of it. It may be extremely important that employees come directly to the company's decisions, but at the same time, e.g. to make sure that the situation does not show that the staff are involved, despite having an inactive session anywhere, are responsible for any proposal or actions that may result in the loss of workers. That's why I've gone over here only tore up possible means of ensuring the aims of increasing employment democracy. The task force itself waits to find the right ways, to be approved and appointed. These ideas are not really new. They are widely known in lands around us. I encourage interested people to study the report that covers only Western Europe. With respect to space and with respect to what. Councilmen were decided to look only at Western Europe. Professional democracy is known worldwide. This is known in Germany and has been in the north for a very long time, including correspondent in Sweden, which is certainly one of the northern countries, and more of them. Those of us who have especially looked to the northern countries for cooperation within the Council of the North, and we learn each other, should look very closely to them in this respect. This matter has also been discussed for decades in this hall. In the spring of 1965, the first proposal for a judicial hearing was made for the 85th legislature Council. It was Ragnar Arnalds, then skunk. paritaprevir The common alliance, which made that suggestion, has been suggested, and since then many members of the council have made a suggestion on these matters. I'd especially like to mention the highest. Healthcare Minister of Svaní Svavarsdóttir, along with all of the local Council of the Left move, proposals for several legislators a few years ago for the order of a committee to make proposals for employment democracy. Thus, professional democracy has long been a conflict of the left - hand labour at the General Assembly. In addition to all of these matters, there have been other matters that I'll slightly introduce, or they're here in the report, which were aimed at increasing the role of workers in the field of employment decision making over the last half of the century or also put before the appointed left class representatives. Although many efforts have been made to develop and establish the rules for the implementation of employment democracy in Iceland, the results have so far been limited. But now there's a song, Mr President, it's a song. In our neighboring countries over the last half of the century, however, professional democracy has established a noble place in the shape of a job market and has found itself to be a normal part of the workforce. The Icelandic labour market must, therefore, be considered as highly primitive in this regard, and there is full reason to make improvements in this important field. However, during the period of the left command taken here, steps have been taken this way. This happened by the presence of representatives of the workers in the heads of cultural institutions, such as the National Theatre and Kingdom Radio, and by the seating of high school officials and students. In this regard, consider the law of No. 23 From March 20, 2013, on the State Radio, the public preaching media, the regulations of the law No. 92 of June 12, 2008, of high school, and then the law on elementary school, the National Archives of Iceland, and acting law. It must also be kept in mind in this regard that partners created a potential for business influence on enterprises. Now I know that all of us here are listening because we are the ideal partners and partners and the ideals behind them. It belonged, for example. We deal with consumers in urban areas and businessmen, like farmers in the rural area. By the collapse of the cohesion movement, the whole system was laid down, and especially the ideological democracy that was originally based on cohesion. President. I'm not going to read this report that is, even if I tell it myself, very good. At the very least, it is thorough and informative. But I'm going to finish my case by reminding that the concept of employment democracy means ways to enhance the impact of employees in companies. That's what this proposal is, and that's why we all have a policy, that the Icelandic labour market can develop in the same way that it has done in the countries around us in the last half century.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u84	A respectable president. I shall now be reimbursed for a hearing of domestic violence information. I made this suggestion at the last council of 150th, but it was not granted that time. I believe that the reason is that time has simply not been enough to handle this good thing. Well, as so far as then, there has been a broad political controversies, and in perfect harmony with other government actions involving domestic violence, which have gained more space in the recent years and, as a result, greater understanding of how destructive it is and how much it has, to generation after generation. We need to respond and look for ways to prevent violence and reduce its harmful effects. My importers suggest that this is a good idea. Councilmen Inst. Hrafn Gunnarsson, Anna Ingi Sævarsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Halla Þorbjörg Sigríður, Þídíldur Gjörður Hjörður Gjörður Hjörður Gunnnsótir, Vilhjálmur of the Árnason and Líneik Saevarsdótir, who say that members of seven of the eight classes sit at the Council. I'm not going to read up the whole report. But to help me explain what it is about, it means that the General Assembly concluded to assign a justice minister to set up a group of professionals who will be assigned to shape suggestions on the exchange of information on domestic violence between systems and community services, health institutions, schools, and police services. Necessary population must include ... toimprove proposals for clear legal documents on the provision of domestic violence between social authorities, health authorities, academic authorities and police authorities and establish a government - based field of cooperation. The minister then introduces the results of the staff to the General Assembly in June 2021. The aim of the Parliamentary arrangement is to revise the current system to simplify social authorities, health authorities and educational authorities to share information between them and the police. Now, as the State Marshals' regulations have ensured the cooperation of police with other governments, while I and more people working within the system believe that the cooperation must also be more formal in the other direction, i.e. by announcements from the listed sources, social authorities, health authorities and educational institutions, to the police, and by their cooperation between, to the assistance of the other authorities. There is a need for more clear and preactive legislation for this information sharing. It is emphasized and presented here in a paper that this consultation between institutions of society should, of course, take place with consent and participation. The situation of children also needs to be taken into account, and children need to be better informed and better defined by government announcements that interfere with child care committees. Although much work has been done in this category, prime cables have passed through the General Assembly, have been approved, and none of those associated with this category have come from the highest level. The minister of justice and the way from there is not part of that package. Nevertheless, I am no better than to hear, but good support is being given to better research to achieve a better and more formal link between those involved to ensure a flow of information, and thus to take the heavy part of the problem, of all means, of incorruption. It is often this way, perhaps in smaller communities, that people are very closely linked to one another, to dogers, to endurance, and to those who belong to the superior authorities. So it is very important that clear sources are in law, clear rules, on how information sharing should take place. When this matter was discussed at the last council, there were reviews of some sources, very good and detailed comments, including From the Children's Health Institute, the Social Advisory Association of Iceland, the Women's Rights Association of Iceland, the National Rights and Democracy Office of Reykjavík, the Directorate of Family Mosfellstown's Family Area, a very good and helpful review from Percontinental Protection, as well as from the Association for Women's Disputation. At the end of that discussion, it says, by permission of the president: ▪ The Women's Refuse Association welcomes the proposal to believe that the full information flow between systems with the approval or benefit of children's interests will be guided by the option to eliminate domestic violence and that the suggestion will help to promote family violence sooner and more so that those who tolerate it can get out of violent relationships. In the women's shelter, we see that lack of information can adversely affect the victims of domestic violence, and especially the children. A League of Women's Relations encourages members to accept the proposal. As I say, the proposal has been moved unchanged. At the very least, the viewpoints presented in the reviews have not changed much. I'd like, for example. to read from the review of Persian protection. Its conclusion says, by permission of the president: To the extent that, on the basis of the Parliament's decree, the Agency would have to find laws that would be involved in the processing of personal information, it would provide material guidance on them. Other than that, comments are not made to the synoptic arrangement. The review itself carefully reviews articles of the personal protection law and encourages this to be considered in more detail. I'm not going to go into any more reviews, but they're quite good and detailed, as I said before. This interpretation stands for itself. It is simple, and the report is short. I hope this is a good time for the General to discuss this matter, examine all views, and finally resolve the proposal in a positive way. I think it will undoubtedly strengthen the individuals who are abused at home, and most of all, those involved with such matters may offer better guidance and frames so that they can become even more support than it is now to eliminate domestic violence and reduce its harmful effects as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u85	Mr. President. I recommend a Senate hearing that was once proposed to a Council 150th last February. The Congress did not succeed then, but I expect much more now than I do then. As most people know and have observed, climate and the environment have taken an ever more important place in politics on a global scale when it comes to rapid climate change and its impacts. International cooperation, including development teamwork, has an end to a key environmental role. Therefore, I have proposed a synonym proposal for the new green foreign policy of Iceland, on which four other members of the Foreign Affairs Committee are partners. The proposal puts increased emphasis on measures to reduce climate change and international paint, as well as on green emphasis on the different aspects of foreign policy. Some may ask: Is green foreign policy needed? Yes, global warming, weather warming, adverse impacts on vegetation and biodiversity, marine acidification, and rising sea level are critical. To do so, all our systems need to be cleared up from measures to avoid climate warming. Environmental events stretch their ends. They are directly and indirectly linked to a broad range of social affairs, such as international cooperation, security, and wars, economic and international trades, transport, population transport, equations, and gender equality. Climate change has also become a major threat to human rights in the world, as the United Nations official Michelle Bachelet has declared. The United Nations assessment that some 40% of the world's civil wars during the past 60 years are due to the decline of environmentally speaking in English, by permission of presidents, ◯environmental degradation. In view of the scope and importance of international environment, there is a great need for international cooperation and international cooperation in climate matters that will only increase. Therefore, all EU policies need to bear the mark. There's no exception to Iceland's foreign policy. One of the most important elements of Iceland's foreign policy should be to promote environmental priorities. In this context, Iceland can play an important role because despite the dyspnoea, Iceland can have a very positive influence on international developments, as proved to be to form by our remarkable progress in the UN Human Rights Council. Increased emphasis on green issues in Iceland's foreign policy would also have positive effects and could lead to further mediating the knowledge of the existing geologic use of landlands. That knowledge can make a difference in the prospects of other nations to accept the responsibility for changing energy from fossil fuels and coal into environmental options such as geothermal. The demand for green solutions in many parts of the world might also encourage further innovations in the green areas of the country, with its related and necessary effects, especially at present, in the environment, in the economy, and in society. This would be in the spirit of the international debt of Iceland, according to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Convention. The Northern countries have become highly relevant international in environmental and climate matters. The synonym suggests that the northern countries and their foreign policy will be considered in the implementation of green foreign policy. To illustrate, at the end of the last year, the Danish Ministry of State introduced a project to promote Danish solutions on climate issues and measures to improve sustainableity. In addition, the Danmerian government intends to emphasize green projects in development, as shown in the national budget of the country by 2020, where there were a sum of about $600 million for the seminary. During the Swedish Developmental Policy, there are some factors that include the United States and the United States. Emphasis on environmental sustainability, sustainable climate, marine and water sources and sustainable use of natural resources. A large part of Finland's development policy is also linked to climate in developing countries, both through a fund and by a two - side development team. As noted in this synonym, and my co-ministers are suggested to achieve the shape of Iceland's green foreign policy in six measures based on the operations and emphasis of the Northern countries in this category. These would be the following: An ambassador to climate change as a joint policy and international message on climate change and oversees information and co-ordination within the Commission for the implementation of the Icelandic government on international climate change measures. Iceland's special embassies will be nominated for a green embassy where the main focus and project of that ambassador and deliverer would be in the climate and environment. There will be a special state-of-the-art environment office set up at the State Department and it will provide additional resources and more money. The office would be assigned to promote international cooperation on climate, as well as information on international and national climate issues and to cooperate with other strategies for the implementation of international activities of Iceland and commitments in climate change. Green-free and international policy will be marketd and clarified and always planned and determined by the climate targets and the international commitments of our environment and climate. More emphasis would be placed on the environment of free trade agreements on the initiatives of the Icelanders. Iceland's policy of developing cohesion will be organized and explained by the climate targets of the Paris Conference, its global objectives of the United Nations, and as part of Iceland's climate action programme. The budget for the United Nations Environment Programme will be increased and international 2-sided cooperation will be extended within the green economy through the assistance or access of the Ministry of State. Finally, policy in individual aspects of international activities, such as Iceland's Arctic policy and marine policy, will be regularly updated with regard to a serious climate situation requiring rapid and faster response. Action to cope with rapid climate change must be clear, clear, and purposeful. Thus, policy needs to be implemented in all areas of society. In this way international cooperation, as well as foreign policy, can play a key role.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u86	Mr. President. It's most recently said that this is a very good thing. The climate crisis is the greatest challenge mankind faces, as is indicated by the words of the King James Version. A woman of history. Our future on earth simply depends on our joining together across borders and making radical changes in production and life - style. We Icelanders are a rich nation, with good and renewable resources and intelligence, and we simply have obligations to the inhabited earth and to future generations. The largest 10% of the world's population is responsible for about half of all emissions, but the consequences are most severe for the poorest nations in the world. So the battle against climate warming is an undesirable part of the global struggle and will never be won by a fully international team. Hence, it is disappointing that Iceland has excessive ambitions when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. And in spite of the most beautiful words. Prime Minister for Green Revolution except Iceland's contributions to climate operations to less than 1% of GDP under budget. In the process of the United States, which we call responsible the 2021 Economic Program, we stress that a climate change strategy will be reviewed so that at least 55% of greenhouse gas emissions decrease by 2030 and this target will be legalized. We also want to sharpen the independence and maintenance of the climate council and promote the management of climate through a central Ministry Office that has the resources and resources to do the necessary diagnostic work. In addition, we provide green investment funds owned by the government supporting the building of climate-friendly employment and green high-tech industry, we want organized construction of industrial parks, accelerated energy exchange, special forestry and more and more. But this was an outlet because we do not solve climate problems on our own and not on the landstones. We need to communicate with one another. Therefore, in the United States, we wholeheartedly support our setting up a green foreign policy to bring forward positive international changes. As shown by the international work, we are being listened and effective despite our shortness of breath, as shown earlier. Natural warming is simply a matter of magnitude that we are obliged to apply ourselves according to what we can. Mr. President. Not long ago, people believed that clean air, unpolluted water, fruitful forests were all worthy of a cause to fight for but not a national security issue. Today, however, environmental factors have become a key factor in the foreign policy of most Western nations. You see, environmental issues directly and indirectly involve a wide variety of social issues. These include security issues, wars, economics, inequities, human rights, and sexual equality. The Danish government is among those who have come to realize this and have taken up a green foreign policy, as mentioned in the preceding talk. It was simply a decision that Denmark would become a so - called green empire. Along with large steps in the battle against global disaster, it was decided that Danish climate emphasis and solutions would be mediated around the world so that climate change and sustainability would be the prerequisite for Danish foreign policy. A new climate department was set up in the Ministry and a new sustainable policy was proposed. Fifteen ambassadors of Denmark were organized into some sort of green couriers to proclaim green solutions and policies of the local authorities and encourage green trades throughout the world. True, governments are concerned with climate, and they are often referred to in local talks, as well as in foreign lands, even now. But it is simply not enough to decorate with beautiful words on days of stress. Actions need to be followed. We simply do not see signs in the administrations, in the budget, in the financial agenda, that the climate is being taken firmly enough. Mr. President. The six proposed actions are practical, but they are also radical and necessary. They are based in various ways on the northern states'focus on the tribe of paint. Of course, it is good to look to good examples, so we should not be entangled in these footsteps. Iceland alone will not accomplish much, but if we work closely together with other countries and pursue the same goals, we can have a great impact. Therefore, we are to undertake this project and work closely with the Norwegian countries, as well as the European Union, on climate issues. It can have a multiplicity effect and can make a difference for future generations, of course, that we need to consider. I hope, therefore, that this fine subject will be discussed at the council. I want to finally thank you. paritaprevir Róka Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfjörn's daughter for taking the necessary initiative in this very important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u87	Mr. President. In this case, I believe, a somewhat modest proposal, of important, simple and good, six things that cover many ideas that have developed in many parts of the community over the past few years, but that for some reason have not been accomplished, despite being quite obvious in many respects. Of course, there are other things that can be added, but I think that you can just start by saying that these are simple and modest suggestions, perhaps some of which are radical. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson Einar said, but I don't think radicals are necessarily the point of this. The point is, this is a good idea. We're supposed to go this way, so that it's quite modest, it's a reason just to accept it right here and now. Of course, it will take some time to treat them. I mention it because I think it's remarkable that this proposal or anything like it didn't come from the government and when you look at the movers of the proposal and especially the first apostle, w. paritaprevir Róka Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Broynfjörðurdóttir, sees that this is a large group of members of the Foreign Affairs Committee who have tried to raise foreign affairs to a slightly higher level. I'm not on the Foreign Affairs Committee anymore, but I miss being at that job because there's so much to do there. I think it's a problem with Icelandic politics in general that foreign politics and foreign affairs are often considered secondary. It is much more popular in Icelandic politics to consider that some business in rural areas, some affairs affecting citizens in daily life, because it is much easier to explain such matters. It is much easier to explain agriculture and thus restore wetlands e.g. in transport and transport networks and the importance of transport energy exchanges rather than e.g. to explain the importance of foreign transactions on green terms. It is difficult to explain, too, how such countries as Iceland, where only 3 60,000 people live, somehow have the ability to influence internationally as much as countries like China, India, Russia, or the United States. But it is a good idea that has often been mentioned as working at home but doing globally to take advantage of the knowledge available at home and make sure that it has communicated with everyone else. In this context, it is important to remember that we have as many votes in the United Nations as China, as many votes in the United States and the United States, as many votes in EFTA and Switzerland and as many in the Arctic Council as Russia. We have a loud voice, a much larger voice than our size indicates. If we do not use that voice as much as we possibly can at all times, we are wasting opportunities. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir In her talk that Iceland, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörnsdótttir noted her career in the United Nations Human Rights Council of Human Rights, using probe, a role that we came into after a much bigger and more powerful state went out. We went into it with a little time and did good, and that was cool, and we should do more of that. Mankind is faced with tremendous expectations for damage that we have already begun to see in the form of increased forest fires and the increased incidence of hurricanes to the point that the alphabet was completed at the beginning of September of this year, and we have come far into the Greek alphabet at this point, i.e. Who goes a hurricane gets a staff for his name? There are things happening, and if we, despite being a small nation on the north side of the world, do not use all the opportunities to try to help mankind go in the right direction, we are making mistakes. We've already done a lot of things, and I'd like to mention that within EFTA, in which I'm leading the European Parliament's Commission, a new section of sustainable development has been made that when we're dealing with other countries on free trade agreements from here on, our agreements in EFTA will highlight certain aspects of sustainable development, including nature protection and protection, which are just positive. To some extent, it meets the fourth point in this proposal for a green vacation and international trade policy. But it's worth saying that although we've done this in EFTA, not all Iceland's vacation contracts are done in EFTA. We have two examples of two-sided contracts, with China and the Faeroe Islands, and this may be a reason to mention this, because we have regular meetings with countries with which we own free trade agreements, that it might be good to update our holiday deal with China with some green aims. There is just one small example of exactly how to implement this specific clause. Finally, I'd like to mention that next week, I expect that there will be a special discussion here with the Environment Minister on Climate and the result. One of my emphasises as an advisor will be the focus of the international court because if we had decided to do this a great deal of ambition, we could succeed in fulfilling our part of the Paris convention within a few years. It would be realistic, and working as the first land to fulfill its part of that covenant is a big thing. They can so much help other countries to do so, and there are many business opportunities, many opportunities for companies to go out and do well. But it is quite clear that if there is no global cooperation, it is likely that the aim itself will not be achieved, even if Iceland and other countries are able to meet their parts, because Iceland does not pollute that much in the big context, but many countries do. They may not all need our help. One way to offer them the help would be to accept this proposal, to work out from this proposal toward a much more efficient foreign policy than also in the big context, to remember that international politics are enormously important, both in a environmental but in general view because we as little countries rely on the whole world as much as the whole world depends on us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for his speech, was vital, necessary, and good. I thank you, too. paritaprevir The Logi of the son of Einarsson, who spoke before. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy only came on what I wanted to ask him about being chairman of the EFTA Council Committee, i.e. In terms of the fourth item of the Parliamentary Directive, which is about to take place in green vacations and international trades, there will be an ever-registered and developed by the climate targets and international commitments in the environment and climate. Like what? This matter has been adopted by a member of the Council Committee of Parliaments and a new section on sustainable development. I'd like to hear from what I hear. A member of Parliament, whether he considers the chairman of the EFTA Council Committee, an opportunity to give, is still open when it comes to putting more emphasis on the environment in the process of free trade agreements. We have, for example. as a result of the EU's free trade deal with the Mercosur State, which has been approved but will yet be signed - and perhaps as a sign of how fast the trend is and the extent of fermentation in these matters, which is better - to have developed much doubt in Europe, just because of environmental considerations. I wonder what. A senator finds it realistic that we take these matters better and more clearly into our foreign business and our international business in the free trade agreements. I'd love to hear it from what I'm talking about. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u89	Mr. President. It's a more complicated question than that. A senator was going to ask, I think. One side is full of opportunities. We could, for example. making use of provisions in all our free business contracts to have meetings and to provide suggestions for change, even some form of concordance, or whatever it should be. We might also try to re-negotiate these chapters on sustainable development at the commercial agreements we've already made. But all of this takes time, and our developers may not always be willing to open contracts that work. They may see no benefit in that. In addition, there is a state of global deal at the moment, which creates a difficult situation, especially when trying to put something like environmental protection into foreign trade. There's a commercial war going on. This business war is between China and the United States, but it has much more to do with it. One manifestation of the long - standing duration is that the Court of the International Business Agency has not worked for months. As a result, all business issues have to be resolved in another way. As a result, there are now a lot of environmental factors in business agreements where differences between nations are not easy to resolve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr for the counter. Exactly, as he says, these are often complex cases. But as noted in the case of a man. Einarsson As the Danish government made a clear decision, so the decision must be made. They decided that their foreign policy would be green and based on climate operations and the goals involved. But I thought the point was interesting. A senator came in about earlier vacation contracts, to film with China. We know that as soon as China cleans up and decides to make itself part of the Paris convention, that means huge things. But then again. A senator says that this is a reasonable and modest synoptic proposal here - and perhaps it is in harmony with what we would like to do more, faster, and better - when it is radical against it, as shown in another senator's case, to decide which foreign policy is. Like a snooze. A senator came in, and we have been members of the Foreign Affairs Committee calling for a clear line. International trading and free trade agreements are exactly one part of the declared foreign policy of the present government, which may be part of a project rather than a policy. But if that is to be a policy, it should be more ambitious and clearer. I wonder what. A senator shares that opinion with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-15-9.u91	Mr. President. Yes, it is easy to share that vision. I've been a little boring sometimes at the top. Secretary of State because, despite some things he's done in recent years, I have felt that I lack the will to care for certain foreign authorities, so I quit, by permission of a president. You see, we need measures at a international level. We need not fear to step forward and say: " We want to do this. ' Since we talk only about China, the Chinese government has shown tremendous willingness in recent months to get involved in climate issues. They are naturally faced with a very diverse problem, they have a very rapidly growing intermediate with increasing energy needs, but they have claimed that they intend to try to reach their CO-2 emissions in 2030, which is very cool. So why don't we have a conversation with the Chinese government now about how Iceland can help them reach that goal and how we can try to adjust our international cooperation accordingly? It can be accessed in countless ways, but one has to want to do so first. That's what the Danish government has done, and that's what I hope we do with it. And since I mentioned disagreements with the World Trade Agency, for example, there were Just now, in August, it smells like woodcutting issues. It would have been much better for the international community if the Court of the International Business Agency had been active because the result was actually two - sided rather than universal. There's only one way Iceland could take advantage of it, wishing this problem would be solved.
