ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u1	So far as the only part of the program is concerned, it is too short to be distributed. Hence, there is a agreement to be made that the documents will be scheduled, and a vote for variations is now being made. The variants are agreed with 53 unanimous votes, and the success of the system brings great joy to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u2	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the Committee's opinion of a greater part of the APC to correct the change in various laws to face the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus, further workforce action. I'll go for a big one on the main topic of the bill. The bill suggests that the temporary payment period according to the health authorities' guidelines without being infected, no. 24/2020, be extended until the end of 2021. They suggest changes in unemployment insurance law, No. 54/2006, as for job-related remuneration and jobseekers' clearance to study together with getting unemployment benefits. There were some comments about the position of parents of long - suffering or severely disabled children who are unavoidablely unable to perform their jobs because of a public service in elementary schools or a child's vacation home due to transmission of infection by a group of staff, without any special recommendations from the competent authorities. These parents do not have the right to pay according to the above laws, but they suffer a loss of income due to absence from work and/or to accept unregistered leaves due to a fully-new holiday right. The majority claim that the Ministry of Social Affairs has had these issues examined for some time. This summer, however, was managed by a change in legal regulations for financial assistance to disabled and long - suffering children, No. 504/1997, with subsequent changes. As a result of this change, it was permitted to pay the candidates of children who had a valid assessment of care during the specified period of time, a single payment of 25% of full care payments for one month because of increased care management requirements for certain conditions met. However, the majority consider that the position of this group is important. Then the greater part is the importance of the Ministry having these issues in constant opinion in cooperation with stakeholders. At the same time, a parent's position in general may be taken into account, who is unable to perform secular work because of the pandemic. In view of the above, the majority of the material does not currently indicate any specific changes to the product on the bill. The bill suggests that there are three months to six months of validation for income related unemployment benefits, as certain conditions are met. In view of the greater part, this is a very important step to cope with the conditions established in Icelandic society due to the pandemic. The aim of the extension is to match those who have lost their jobs and will live with reduced employment opportunities for the next loss. The bill suggests changes in unemployment insurance laws to support the possibility of individuals who temporarily disappear from a labour market because of disease or accident to become back active workers in the labour market. The majority welcomes these changes and considers them a positive step in increasing the working skills of those around them and contributes to their reinstatement in the workforce. The committee presented the view that a permanent change was important, not a temporary change in response to the pandemic. The majority of the rights are due to the permanent changes in job relocation. The bill suggests that peak ECTS units will be raised from 10 to 12 so that university education will be permitted at a maximum of 12 ECTS units on academic truth to other conditions met, as agreed by Article 2 of Article 6. The bill. At the committee meetings, it was noted that the number of units according to educational fields may vary. Full study is defined as 30 ECTS units, with minimal progress to obtain a student loan of 22 ECTS units or their value at each time point. The above increase in ECTS units, therefore, allows students no more space than for one or two courses, and is not useful to full-school students. As a result, the change leads to a failure to apply for loans or to improve unemployment. The majority feel that the maximum academic rate must be further examined along with the pay of unemployment, which includes what is considered to be a loan - at - cost to students of education. Since an increase in units according to the bill does not result in a bridge between creditable study and study along unemployment insurance, the number of deaths between ships and docks should be determined and not entitled to student loans or unemployment reforms. The majority point to the Ministry that this will be considered for further consideration on the general review of the law. The bill also suggests that a special study contract with a jobseeker who is considered secure within the unemployment insurance system, such as the A-DG 9. The bill, and if you want to study, it's an opportunity. A greater proportion of them says that a jobseeker's authority to study while paying unemployment benefits is only made up of one other. However, a labour agency is permitted on the basis of d- team 1.mg. 2 mg. Section 12. Marketing Authorisation Holder (Environment), No. 55/2006, strengthening study counsel for one year or for two hours, as the jobseeker continues to study after the first semester. The aim of such measures is to prevent desertion and, at the same time, ensure the growth of school services. The bill suggests that the right worker for unemployment gains along with a reduced labour rate due to temporary recession in employers' activities to further conditions filled, the so-called partial improvement method, will be extended to 31 October 2020, as per Article 8. The bill. To meet the economic impact of a pandemic crown virus, there was a conspiracy among officials on how to manage the resource. The cut-off method allows companies to maintain recruitment relationships with a reduced labour rate and to ensure independent working persons with their own business opportunities to reduce business management without being exposed to uncontrollable loss of income due to the pandemic. There was a view to the need to ensure a labour market leadership as long as the economic impact of the epidemic remains. Therefore, it would be important to extend the resources over the course of October 31, 2020. This suggests extending the period of the partial improvement to 31st December 2020. In addition, a greater proportion showed that the above preliminary rules were originally intended for June 1, 2020, but were extended to September 1, 2020. The preliminary regulations have now gone out of effect, with the last extension of September 1, 2020. So the rest of the arrangement needs to be taken back and the rest contributes to the change. In the treatment of this matter, we discussed the position of artists and local artists who have not been sufficiently assured by the measures that would have been approved because of the impact of the pandemic. This would take over their applications for a labour agency too long. The Committee noted that because of the effort to work at the labour agency, application management was delayed and several parts of the candidates had to wait longer than eight weeks. On the other hand, waiting time would have been up to the end of the summer and the pay period of application should not be longer than four weeks when the Agency was over the most difficult of the pandemic. In recent years, some changes have taken place in Iceland and in many Western countries that the traditional employment relationship between the employee and employer has changed. To a greater extent, people are not in a permanent recruitment relationship with one particular employer, but with a more complex relationship, and this is especially true for artists. Remuneration can swing dramatically, and work hours are not regular. So the relationship between righting and paying insurance costs may not be as clear as before and that the person's application for rights is not as obvious as in a simple recruitment relationship. This position is not limited to people in art. The majority point to the Ministry of Social Affairs that in an overall review of unemployment insurance law, these factors will be considered separately. The majority also point out that such work needs to be in some way cooperated with other departments, especially with the Department of Ministers for Artists. The improving and forwarding systems that people depend on must at any given time reflect the reality in society, with regard to the labour market and the labour market relationship and the paypayer's salary. The majority of the items are directed to the Ministry to speed up this work. The committee discussed the overlap of reform systems and the fact that the payments of pensions can work on partial improvements. According to the part-time work route, the government pays a part of the pay of those who temporarily reduce their employment pay. There have been cases where the payments of pensions have been paid to reduce the damage. So the majority suggest a change in the payment of pensions under social insurance laws and general pensions does not result in reduced partial improvements. In the treatment of these cases there was a further perspective on how to ensure the survival of individuals, particularly while the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus may, such as the viewpoint of increase in the amount of basic non-employment, extension of unemployment insurance benefits, and increases in income-related unemployment improvements. There was also a perspective on student rights on unemployment benefits during recesses. The greater part of the claim that the temporary changes proposed in the bill are not expected to be permanent. On the other hand, the overall review of the law on unemployment insurance is in cooperation with the labour market. The majority of the cases consider it important that the above views as well as suggestions received during the treatment of the case will be considered for further consideration. This will put the majority at attention to the Ministry to ensure extensive consultation with key stakeholders, including the U.S. We students. The majority of them consider it important to consider that effective implementation is important. The costs for the management of the employment agency, such as the development of software, have previously been expected and may be involved in the cost of about 3 billion. Dec, as well as the Agency's need to add more standards. In addition to the changes described above, the majority of the item contributes to minor adjustments to correction and correction. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special document that follows the case that I will not specifically explain but is available here. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. Under the name of the Lord. Councilmen: Rafney Rafe Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. I believe this matter is a very good injection under the circumstances that we now enjoy. What a powerful job market operation! In particular, I would like to mention an extension of income-related unemployment improvements from three months to six months, which I consider very important, and that the length of contracts is as well as the duration of job-related recovery to increase activity and contribute to the workforce, very important resources, and the ability to practice up to 12 units per term, increase from ten units. All that matters, though it is always possible to do better. The authority to study unemployment, and the part - time improved process is extended through the years, is also important in this situation. Study is also an opportunity, an opportunity to give people on unemployment benefits, an opportunity to study while on unemployment, is an excellent tool for continuing to study and receiving support for them on the part of the employment agency by contracts, and further study aid to continue studying if they wish to do so. But I'm not going to say any more than suggest that the matter be well paid off at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I can agree that the options being offered are all for improvement. But I'd like to ask why. A member of Parliament: Why do governments and governments not want to improve the interests of the worst - known and unemployed group? According to labour agency sources, some 12,000 people did not receive income - related unemployment benefits and needed to support themselves and their families at 289,510 K. for tax, or just about 240,000 dollars. by tax. Wait a minute. A senator's clear answer to this: Why do governments leave behind the task force? Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u4	What group?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u5	12,000 people who received basic non-employment benefits in August. They're left behind. It is not easy to improve the terms or status of that group. Why is he left behind? Wait a minute. A senator giving me clear answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u6	A respectable president. You can always discuss whether to raise basic employment benefits. We know this operation is very expensive on the whole line. The policy of this government has been to work to create important jobs and to strengthen the workforce involved in this bill. An increase in unemployment rates may be considered. We now take the step toward extending income - related unemployment benefits from three months to six months, which is very important for those involved. This will help us to determine if there is any way that we can meet those who have been treated for the longest time on basic nonemployment, which is not a very large amount. Yet unemployment improvements have been improved, such as what happened. A senator knows. They were raised a few years ago, and that is good. There can be endless debates as to which function is best in such a condition. I think most people can agree that the most important thing is to try to create jobs, study people, activate people. They're working on it all on this case, and I can tell you what. Senator I believe we need to examine the possibility of raising basic employment benefits, whether and how it will be done. My mind stands for an effort to meet the worst. Like what? A senator knows such things as No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Social Affairs and employment agencies are going to the Southnes to meet people there and review the difficult employment conditions there. [[The president calls.]] We need to work that way and analyze the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u7	Mr. President. The situation on Southnes will not improve at the time of the visit. A social minister who can't even decide which side of the weekend he's going to visit. Hv. One senator says that it is so expensive to raise basic employment benefits. If the United States was to be proposed, it would cost billions in 2020 and less than 4.5 billion in 2021. It is money that would do much good for the large group of people who have a serious problem. There is also a demand in the economy, for these people have no money and they take the money to the store to buy food or necessities. In comparison, cod. Senator, you did not hesitate to reduce a permanent bank tax of 11 billion. I could list other examples. [[The president calls.]] It is totally unacceptable that a senator of the left green standing here and saying that it is so expensive to improve the interests of the worst - known people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And there's no work to be done. This is a disgrace, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u8	A respectable president. You can say it's expensive. Everything is expensive, so priorities are needed. No one here, either me or anyone, refuses that living on unemployment is difficult. We all know that that's not much forward. But it's a question of what it will be like to raise unemployment rates by 30,000,400,000. Would that solve any problem? I think the problem we face in this situation is much deeper than that, and one or no one can blame. I would feel that a social minister and a financial agency would be welcome in Southnes to discuss the situation with the local people. We all need to work together, not procrastinate one another. We're trying to establish priorities and look for ways to work on these issues, so we're going on, together, all as one, no matter where we are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u9	A respectable president. It's hard to live on the hard unemployment benefits. But how difficult is it to live on nothing at all, not on a dollar, as some have had to do for months? Artists and clients of the employment agency who have waited for up to ten to eleven weeks without getting a dollar. The committee refers to those with long - suffering children. No one is aware of the challenges they face, how difficult the situation often is. You can put yourself in that situation only if you are in that situation. What is the solution to those who have been invited? If they lose their jobs for 15 days, they are offered one payment at a maximum of 48,000 dollars. Would we be invited to do this? And nothing more is being done. Why, on the other hand, would you say to the group that is in the greatest crisis of all: You will receive 48,000 bucks? to a maximum within 15 days of work because of your child. That's why you're forced to do it. You have to do this. But we're going to punish you. I really hope there's a change in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u10	A respectable president. We discussed the situation of parents of long - suffering children on a welfare committee. There was a lot of agreement that we would have to search all the ways to meet this group. It can be a complex solution because it does not match the same laws as when you are ordered under the protection laws of self-instruction. This is different, so there are other ways. Therefore, we, the majority of welfare committees, place much emphasis on the continuing consideration of how this group can be met in an even more powerful way than was done. A senator mentioned, with a monopoly of 25% full - time care payment for one month because of increased care. I think it's very important. However, we need to determine how to approach it. Parents are in very different circumstances. Long - suffering children and individual children cannot have the resources available to them, and parents go home to care for them. I think there's more to the case, the communities, the state and other members. We need to find a solution as soon as possible. At the short time, we could not do so. We need to be careful and especially directed to the Department of Social Affairs to look out for the position of this vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. But we know, and it was clearly stated on the committee that these are 500 families, that there are people who are losing their jobs because they cannot practice it because they have to care for their children. Caring is designed so that certain restrictions also apply to them. Caring and work are quite different things. If we are on another level legally making up for the loss of a job, why would this group not? I'm asking why on earth is he not the first in the series? These people need it. They have a right, just like everybody else, and we can't discriminate against people. We have to make sure that it's equal to everyone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u12	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator just agrees in this matter. We need to work at finding a solution. We'll come back on October 1 and hopefully the Department of Social Affairs and those in this case will need to find the formula that these parents can enjoy in accordance with the SEC, although their advantages are different from those appointed by the competent authorities. I think you should keep looking for what you can do. I think this is very important because these people need to keep their parents with them in this situation. It is a challenge for this vulnerable group not to be able to go into their own resources. [[The president calls.]] That's where we're gonna have a mission we're gonna have to take care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to give her speech and presentation of the decisions that might be made. The welfare committee. I want to proceed with the case discussed here, i.e. is the pay of persons who are infected. That is correctRafney Magnúsdóttir Our report was directed to the Ministry of Social Affairs to examine specifically, i.e. The difficult situation of parents of long - suffering or severely disabled children, who inevitably cannot perform their jobs because of a public service that stays low or closed at play and elementary schools or children's vacation homes because of infections not due to their children themselves, but to employees or others in the community. V.E.G. A minister responded to the call of the welfare committee in his day because he did not rely on him to handle the situation quickly. Four months later, he distributed money to this group, ranging from 25,000,33,000K, to the parents of children before three months of absence from work. I think everyone realizes that this is not in any agreement with the law we're talking about about individuals as well as the parents of children. Let's get this straight. The law also states that the parents of children who have to be diseased are entitled to pay. That's why I'd like to ask you first. A senator agrees that there must be something he needs to do for this group. Magnúsdóttir To protect and protect the parents from poverty and loss, the left movement provides a 2 - less - change program that allows these people to enter. [[The president calls.]] For the Council, there is a motion that will be elected tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u14	A respectable president. I haven't studied this adjustment proposal. It will only show what it looks like and whether it is wise to work at it in a comprehensive review to get a long - term outcome. This must be done so that they can safely embrace this group. It can vary in variety and circumstances, even though it is common to know that there are delicate people, long - suffering children. Still, there are a number of situations that need to be considered. I trust the Department of Social Affairs and the stakeholders who know best about the jury, the people involved, are doing the work they called upon to start. I think it is very important that the time for regrouping on October 1 is used to improve. I feel that there is no need to minimize what was done, to suggest a portion of what is right for the person. But it can be done better, and this can also be restored if it is to be replaced. There is nothing against it. But I think there is work to do, and there must also be good work to do, such as I and I do. A senator wants both.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There is a significant decrease in the number of dollars paid by the applyer in the environment. The cost estimates with the resources were 600-◯700 million. K. In the spring, but it is clear that there is a much smaller actual cost, or 190 million. K. So much more money on this project has been expected. Hv. A senator spoke strongly about the complexity of the matter, that she had not studied the changes in the available ones. However, she is an authority in the matter, so I encourage her to study it. They're talking about, so I'm going to let me read some of the changes, that we're going to be in the districts to add a warrant that says: It is advisable to pay the employer pay pay the pay if a worker has not been able to do all he or she can do all she can, or in part, for the disinfectants that lead to a decline in the service or closing of a child's school in his presupposed age of less than 18 years who accepts services on the basis of service to disabled persons with long - term needs and who has not been diseased. the child himself. [[The president calls.]] - It depends on what is stated more closely in these laws. [[The president calls.]] Because we know that the maximum pay for stress is 633,000 k., max 21,000. daily, which is approximately The amount at the highest. Minister of Social Affairs is trusting to pay for the three-month absence of these parents. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u16	A respectable president. Hv. A senator read up a suggestion I haven't seen from her. From the point of view, I would think there could be more cases that did not fall beyond the definition. A member of the council mentioned, where victims of long - suffering children are involved or those who come from sensitive groups. That's why I think it has to be better to make sure that all the individuals involved are covered. I think it's respectable to submit these ideas, and I'm sure they'll be revised in an overall review of these issues. I trust this work will continue for the next few weeks and there will be a possibility of repetitive action. [[The president calls.]] The suggestion would be a good suggestion for that type of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u17	Madam President. I'm considering 1st of the Department of Health Committee on Elements to correct the change in various laws to face the economic effects of a pandemic crown, which says further workforce action. The first part calls to mind that the committee was reserved for a short period of time to discuss the matter and to give her opinion of the factors under its scope. Obviously, such a rapid session of treatment does not give the committee the opportunity to respond to the matters of opinion that must be resolved. In particular, I would like to mention the status of artists and other complex recruitment relationships. In this context, the 1st small part of the reasons why applying to the labour agency will quickly be decomposed. It is clear that there has been a great deal of stress on the Agency's staff, but it is even more necessary to ensure that it has the standards needed to carry out those tasks. A smaller portion of the report shows that there is no chance that unemployment will be reduced in the next few months, on the contrary, and in a particular way that long - term action will not be taken in the end. In addition, a smaller portion shows whether there is no particular reason to consider whether the rights of those accepting income-related benefits are guaranteed, e.g. if they get temporary work. Then there is good reason to look for ways to extend the right of those who lose compensation at 30 months without employment, in view of the situation in which the next month comes. However, first memory items may agree with a number of factors in the leading section, such as the importance of temporary right to income-related unemployment benefits up to six months and the lack of pension. Although the changes proposed under the Committee's list of elements are improved, it is assessed in part that these changes do not work far enough on the rights of parents of long-term or severely disabled children who are unable to perform their jobs due to school closure or lack of service due to the impact of the pandemic and extension of the part-way improvement. This will discuss changing the law on temporary pay due to the pay of persons who are infected under the guidance of the health authorities without being infected with the virus, No. 24/2020. The committee found some comments on the position of parents of long - suffering or severely disabled children who are unable to perform their jobs because they are closed by school ladders or because the service is down because of the epidemic's impact, without a specific recommendation from the health authorities. It was observed that some 500 families are in the position of not taking advantage of the services their children need because of their disability and have a legal right to use. In this case, fewer people have used the right to apply for temporary pay under the law than the initial cost assessment by the law and 1, therefore, have no basis for applying for temporary pay due to health authorities'wages without being infected, to be extended, and to reach parents in these cases. It would have been better for the committee to discuss a complex situation in which family members are in, such as their parents'position in general, due to a decrease in their service and school closure because of the prevention measures and parents of their children who have underlying diseases such as immune suppression and are advised not to accept this service because of the risk of infection. For job-related rehabilitation: according to Article 4. The bill will be allowed to address the job-related remuneration that has been practiced by the payman at the time he is considered uncooperative to the 13 - week full - time work supply, as he has truly completed the job-related rehabilitation and was employed in at least one year of work. Three months in a domestic labour market during the processing period. In the 9th. The bill is based on the temporary efforts of the government, the study is an opportunity, so those who have been registered without employment at the labour oce and in an active job search for six months or more will be able to pursue a study that falls under the campaign without affecting the right of the jobseeker to unemployment insurance. In the treatment of this case, it was noted that the average time for persons in the job-related relocation is 13◯14 months and that there is a lot of work to be done with the individuals requiring both time and active participation. A high priority is to improve the ability to work and increase contact with the labour market. Based on a smaller share of 1, the job-related jobseeker's status may therefore be comparable to that of the person in an active search and registered without employment for at least six months. Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that individuals who have completed their job reimbursement will also be given the opportunity to pursue a study that falls under the preconceived effort. As a result, 1st small portion contributes to the adjustment of its contents to 9 gs. The bill. At maximum ECTS units: The bill suggests an increase in the allowed number of ECTS units from 10 to 12 without a loss of unemployment insurance. In terms of 1st, much further progress is required. The increase seems to be based on the general education rate at 6 unit courses. There is, however, a lot of access to the number of units according to educational fields, departments, and study guides. For example, basic school courses at the University of Iceland range from 5 to 18 ECTS and cultural studies all include 10 ECTS units. The study will then be completed at 30 ECTS units, allowing students to have no more leeway than for one to two courses. So a smaller portion suggests to increase the allowed ECTS units without the loss of unemployment insurance from 10 to up to 22 ECTS units. 1st smaller things also want to apply it to the highest level. Minister to ensure that a student's voice is heard by the full reexamination of the current unemployment insurance laws. Some 70% of students work together with study, and in 86% of the cases it is only to support themselves. Employment insurance is financed by a financial insurance fee paid by working people, including students. Even so, students are not granted the right to unemployment improvements and the security network they provide at the time of need. For the time point of part-change mechanisms: The bill suggests that the partial improvement process will be extended to 31 October 2020, as per Section 8. The bill. According to a report of the greater part, the change in this period is proposed to be extended to 31 December 2020. The committee held the view that it would be unfortunate to extend the part-change process shortly thereafter. Instead, there is a need to ensure precaution in these substances. A smaller portion agrees with this and therefore suggests that the period will be extended by 6 months or to 28 February 2021. At the same time, the change is proposed to change dates to 7th and to 10th paragraphs. the bill and the directives are made up in accordance with the explanations presented in the members of the majority of the section. In view of the above, 1st small section contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed in a special Senate document and by this publication, Anna Kolb Kolbrún Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u18	Mr. President. Here's my recommendation for Internal Affairs 2. It's my share. the head of the Commission on further work market measures than the bill to correct the change in various laws to face the economic effects of a pandemic crown. Another small part welcomes the necessary changes proposed in the bill, such as extension of part-time benefits, prolongation of unemployment benefits, incentives to study, clearance of jobseekers to pursue activities that are planned for work, prolongation of pay conditions and support for those who suffer from an accident or illness and may temporarily disappear from a job market. However, a smaller section points out that the timing of contributions from the bill and the published extensions is insufficient, since planning is required for longer periods of time. It is obvious that making a decision after a month's match for an extension of a penalties that failed at the end of the month creates security for families and companies who have to rely on the resources. Organizational activities in companies that depend on major business situations cannot be carried out in the way the government is currently doing, i.e. From day to day, it is necessary for governments to provide as much security as possible in the long future. There's been a bit of a statement that the government is now running a government fund from day to day, but I think corporate drivers are trying to create some kind of vision into the future and some kind of security. A lower proportion rejoice in the efforts of the government to extend the income - related period of unemployment from three months to six months, while the results of the losses experienced by the labour market and the Icelandic community in general will not disappear in the coming months, so all that can be done to prevent many families from coping with poverty during winter, spring, and the next few years. Therefore, it is necessary to extend the income-related period further, pointing to a lower part of the government to immediately initiate preparation for cost assessment and analysis for further prolongation of unemployment. In addition, a large proportion of those who have lost their jobs, while the average full - time wage is about 800,000. a month according to the figures set out in Iceland's Habitat on pay for 2018. In the United States, unemployment benefits are earned the rights of employees to ensure the survival of job losses. The arrangement was based on a baseline North American policy and was established in the region after a great battle between labor movements and political groups that took the fight for the common people and the common people. This is an enormous interest in all of us, for the homes affected by unemployment, but unemployment insurance is also practical from a national point of view and economic goals and the interests of all of us. Basic non-employment is 289,510 k. in a month that is considerably lower than the lowest wage today of 335,000. In addition, $11,500 is paid. or 4% of a basal non-employment program with each child under 18 years of age. With an approved law on the change of various laws to face the economic effects of pandemic crown virus, each child was raised to about 6% for temporary purposes, on December 31, 2020, or at a rate of 17,000. with each child. Tax - related unemployment benefits account for 70% of the pay for loss of employment, although at a maximum of 456,000 dollars. per month. The value of those who earn more than 650,000. is therefore more than 30% of the amount added during the income-related period. If the unemployment period progresses, this improvement is of little importance to the overall picture. By tax, we have 242,700 dollars basic non-employment. and income-related benefits from tax totals of 348,000. These figures show that the financial loss of a person who loses his job is a significant one that greatly affects the family and the family budget, including the life and health of the individual. Much of the money the state offers for raising unemployment insurance comes directly back through taxes and increasing economic activities. Obviously, a person who needs to earn money significantly reduces his consumption of unemployment. Thus, much and long - term unemployment also has negative effects on economic demand, which again reduces jobs. In all respects, poverty and the plight of homes are such an animal to society. The effects of the crisis following the Covid-19 pandemic are more intense on those who lose their jobs and their families. In order to distribute stocks and reduce domestic income loss, 2 less is important to raise unemployment improvements and thus contributes to at least One year, this will be a temporary resort. Poverty, Mr. President, is a political decision that governments can and should prevent. Another smaller section suggests that the partial improvement pathway will be extended to June 1, 2021. The contribution method was a successful operation, which was mainly successful in maintaining employment contracts when unemployment grew rapidly. Sadly, the government made that decision. In the spring, companies of the country are more likely to turn on government officials than to contribute to an enterprise to maintain recruitment relations. Part 2 warned very much about the decision, for it has been found to be an expensive decision, an expensive mistake. The partial improvement rate increased from over 30,000 to nearly 3,000 over the period. The majority of enterprises and institutions are affected by the epidemic and the management and management of enterprises need to be considered now and in the months to come and potentially miss out on any amount of expenses. Therefore, there is very good reason for the conductor to increase the number of employees in such years. However, increasing the work ratio of the workers who are already employed in the company is increasing when the economy improves a simpler operation in which the employment union is already in place. It is important that governments do all they can to maintain the recruitment relationship of those who are still taking advantage of this strategy. A smaller section hopes that the interests of Icelandic society will be improving in the spring months and thus contributes to the extension of the budget to May 31, 2021. This is especially so in order to create a little shame in government action, but there is a great lack of leadership in these last weeks and months and can be written not only on the fact that we are in unprecedented times but also on some sort of lack of vision and courage in these decisions. There is evidence that there are considerably fewer applications to pay the pay in an environment than expected. The cost estimates by means of these measures were 600,700 million, but it is now clear that the cost is much smaller, or some 190 million. K. The decision was made to allow the parents of a child who needs to be ecumbered under a contagion, where there is a need for parents to care for their young children. A lot of discussion was created about parents of long - sick and severely disabled children who need 24 - hour service. Many children have had to stay at home without school services or other daily services since the outbreak without being exposed to the environment themselves. The government met those parents who obviously had to be away from work all this time by paying part of the care fee. The committee stated that the amount of money for up to three months of absence from the parent from work was between 25,000,33,000 k. ............................ This was the solution that a child - care minister offered to parents of disabled and long - suffering children in spring. It is obvious that the employers of the country alone cannot carry the cost of the absence of their employees for so long, nor can parents of chronically ill and disabled children endure the loss of income for months. A lower section thus suggests that there is only one amount of money available to pay in a district - check this option, this law, a license to pay in an environment - also the occurrences when parents cannot do all the work or part of their job because of the disinfectants that result in the loss of service to this group of children, school is closed, play school is closed or any other service that your child has during the day or possibly 24 hours of life, as on the together. We're talking about children up to 18 years of age, and we're talking about children who accept service on the basis of a law on services to disabled people who have long - term needs of support, even though the child himself is not infected. This was shown in the case of a man. Anna Kolbrún's sister, a member of the Year's Árnadóttir, finds that the total number of families in a situation where the child uses that service is 500. Let us see that not all children who have suffered the loss of all their services at all, and not all parents who have had to be away from work for months, are at all times not. The money's real. Other smaller things also underscore the need for governments to meet students. As many as 70% of students make part - time living according to the Eurostdent survey, the number of such activities disappeared almost overnight in the epidemic without any concern by the government and helped students. No, said the Children's Minister and Department of Social Affairs, we're not going to pay people to do anything. According to the government's opinion, in the past ten years students who charge student loans have decreased by half. More often than not because of insufficient growth of student loans. The United States organization has previously made an attempt to get the government to agree that students will be allowed to take temporary unemployment benefits, but it was sadly cut off by government officials. With its proposal now, 2 smaller things are making an effort to meet students who are not in the full range of learning but who have lost their job. Note, not in full study, because the credit rate of those who have an opportunity to attend a student's loan usually depends on studying to a minimum of 22 units per term. Thus, students who study under the provided number of units are not entitled to student loans. Thus, 2 smaller items suggest that one - celled units will be raised to 22 units so that students who are unable to go to full - time education will be permitted to make unemployment improvements. Students are reminded that when they are out in a job market without any rights in the system, they will contribute their part into the job insurance system. This creates an injustice that cannot be made available to students and their families. Now, 1, 2 smaller items contributed to the same modification proposal, and that is why 2 smaller parts support first lower parts of the process for students. The Commission stated that independent, active artists have been exposed to significant threats to the Covid-19 pandemic. Because these artists are involved in the work of employees and private artists, they have been very busy working arrangements for the work of the Labour Organization. Some group were also employees in an on-going employment relationship that fell because of the epidemic when cultural institutions closed. It appeared to the commission that the majority of those who lost their progress in part or in part at the beginning of a pandemic in March have yet to receive no solution from the employment agency. It appears that the sudden stress on the Agency staff has led to a wide range of issues in which the work programme is varied and that further processing has just been put aside, waiting another 24 weeks later. This means that a large group has had no income since the beginning of March, no entrance into six months. The government must recognize this situation now and respond without delay. Mr. President. During the implementation of labour markets for the DMP due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there have been repeated reviews of overwork of the labour oce. It was observed that the period of processing for application is shorter and more often than eight weeks in the routine. A small section of the world wants governments to do everything in their power to prevent people who lose their jobs and their families from being very poor. Job's loss of money is the most intense loss of chemical families and families in a less sensitive and vulnerable backland area. The need to wait two or more months for a resort is simply too long when there is no reserve. A lower part of the report shows that in addition to the pandemic, people have increasingly taken their special possession and may also be due to the length of time needed to cover their applications to the work programme. A lower part of the report shows that in many parts of the country, the services of the labour oce have been closed since the beginning of the epidemic in this country. Similarly, the Service Committees in the capital area have been closed since the end of July. Today, more than 20,000 people have unemployment records and are not taken with those who lost their job. A month's meet. Those who need information can do so by phone or online. However, the Agency's phone time during this considerable period of stress has not been enlarged, despite the closure of a service script, only answering the telephone between 9 and 15 Monday and Thursday, and between 9 and 12 Fridays. Mr. President. It is the government's duty to ensure that agencies can carry out their legal duties, such as the guidance and information given to jobseekers. When mass indifference strikes with such weight and evidence, it is unacceptable that service is of limited duration. 2 less part of the budget will challenge the government to secure additional financial resources so that the Agency can increase its staff across the country and increase their resources and ensure the necessary services to jobseekers. With the reference to what has been said here, 2 smaller items suggest that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a separate document than that provided. 480 plus the 1st less section in terms of change in academic rights to unemployment. This is what the person says, Helga Vala Helgadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator on the tour. I might ask you a few questions, but I'm gonna keep it simple. Last year, I would like to ask about the situation of parents of long - suffering or severely disabled children and parents who are unable to perform secular work because of school retirement or because of the lack of service. It is obvious to all the members of the welfare committee who have spoken here tonight that everyone realizes that something has to be done there, because something else would be strange. These are parents who have been working very hard since the start of the Korean epidemic and who are looking forward to being in the same area for a month. When I'm at the highest. In the last April, a minister said that he realized the problems of this group and wanted to do something in it did not bother anyone that for four months would pass until something was born, let alone someone would think that only the tiny mouse would be born at the strength of a few thousand for three months' work. More part - time manager here referred to this in a general review and that it would need to be better informed to cover all the individuals under it. But I'd like to, since I'm here with the head of a welfare committee, to ask: Is this not something that the committee can only hang into now? Do we have to wait for another four months or more or what? When should such ones begin to relax only without worrying about both their children's health and their family's food? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. Yes, a factor we should react to should be rapid and reliable, but a general review of the case of long - suffering children, I don't think that is the solution to the problems of parents of long - suffering and disabled children. Sometimes one parent has to leave work to care for a child who needs a day's care, sometimes both parents or other relatives. The reality of these people from the beginning of the epidemic is overwhelming. Of course, we must respond. An overall review requires a completely different approach and work profile and has a completely different time frame. We have here, however, created a number of resources to catch people in severe distress, e.g. the antimicrobial laws that were so little used. It is clear that only a small portion of the budget has been used and is now being extended. I don't understand why this group can't exactly go there. It is not about paying these people anything beyond their rights. We are simply talking about taking it when preventative measures require that parents have a baby at home for 24 hours'work and not be able to work. There is nothing undefined or vague. It was not for the same group to take one billion earlier tonight in an undefined reserve of the same minister for a housing situation. I don't know what's getting in the way of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u21	A respectable president. I can see why. Don't ask yourself why we need to look at some big reexamination or maybe look at something on October 1 when we are here at a council meeting today. All the tools needed to reach this group have been handled by a well - being board, so I'm impressed. Chairman of the welfare committee for good works in it. I'd like to mention here only students because they were young. A senator considered it in his committee party, especially the warp we took in spring on student's right to unemployment. Today, an article by the student council president Isabel Alejöndru Díaz is published in the core of which it covers well over how governments have repeated and systematicly ignored student demands throughout the past month, whether this is regarding the need and right to unemployment improvements or an increase in basic progress or anything. This article shows Isabel that students were overly organized. A student's job status was investigated, so they could come to the council, come to the ministers, and say, "Here's the situation. Then students cooperated with the Ministry with these researchs. A study of the unemployment student at May and the beginning of June was conducted in cooperation with the advisers, student council, and the National Association of Iceland, which then led to the minister's saying that the status of students was much better than students told themselves, that the matter was solved, that there was nothing more to be done. [[The president calls.]] However, the minister is sitting on the data; students have not yet been allowed to see this survey, which they were the founders and cooperate with the minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would like to ask: Has a welfare committee been allowed to look at this research locked in the Ministry? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-02-135.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. Yes, we're here at the council today, and we're changing these same laws. We are talking about changes in the law to support people who need to protect their children from disease. We are now. We're extending exactly that law. There is no misunderstanding in helping, not just for parents of healthy children who need to be at home, which we did in spring. Let us remember that, but the parents of long - suffering and disabled children who need to go home and guard their children for the reasons of preventing the disease. I think that's a complete scandal. It is. Where is the equation for this government? Where's your humanity? Where is this policy of catching the weak? Are these the wide banks that the government is going to put on the load in this condition? It is certainly true that students came to a game as a coordinated group, resourceful, with lots of suggestions. They studied the status, research with other European students, etc. etc. and heard of another investigation by the minister, but for that study there has been no questions, and we have not received any information about it either. [[The president calls.]] A board of wells is in the same place as students; we know nothing but the words of a minister that students are doing so much better than everyone would dare hope. [[The president calls.]]
