ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u1	Today, on Thursday, May 7, Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir takes his place at the General Assembly as an assistant for Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u2	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council to be held if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u3	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers and Justice Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u4	President. Tonight's RUV report. Tuesday said it was the highest. Secretary of finance, looking for a fight between Investment and the Union of Iceland, the basis for the biographies was extremely close. He felt that there was not much room to meet the demands of a dispute today. That is the highest expression. The secretary of the budget falls at the same time as at the council, we'll deliver each pack of measures to save the economy, to save companies and employers. There seems to be an enormous amount of room to meet the demands of the largest companies in the country to provide compensation and notices for the staff so that the companies don't have to carry the cost of it, but when it comes to rooming people who perform a reasonable amount of basic services in the country, there is no room at all. Why is that, Mr. President? Nor was it long for professional drivers to pose for their cameras and make use of this new cut - off site on the biographies agreements. The head of the Professional Association laid down a radical basis for the economy and therefore did not want to answer whether negotiations would be possible later in the year due to failure. It opened the highest. The minister of finance is on and even encouraged by his words during the evening news last morning. I'd accuse the Minister of carelessness if I didn't think this was completely deliberate. So I ask, is it the highest? Secretary of finance threatening these classes that if they do not give up their demands, will they give up the life contracts? Will the government not fulfill the biographies agreements in the soon - to - be financial program?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u5	A respectable president. I'm asking why. A senator just said: "Where have you been? Don't people realize what's happening in Iceland? We are losing, beyond what we thought would be the tail of the year, 250 billion or equivalent, twice the amount we planned for 2033 C.E. to put in the capital package. There, the work was done. Where have people come up here and ask: What is the minister to talk about? I don't know what I can do to help people who don't understand what has changed. What I said about the biographies, that's what I said. A senator believes that the government signed and is a member, but is not, that the biographer agreements were made by the government between the labour market parties. It is not in the government's field of action to resign. A senator asked me about it. These agreements were made on the basis of what was then known as economic developments. What I've said about this case is that we have, despite the fact that the assumptions have basically changed to this day, are still making contracts that take this into account. Unattainable agreements have made it clear that more than the biographies were involved in the negotiations. That's unrealistic. Those who can't see are not watching. Those who cannot see that there is no room to go beyond the biographies in new agreements are simply not real. We're in a defense struggle, we're trying to protect what was done in the lifetime contracts, and it's going to be close. That's close to 50,000 people on the unemployment list in the meantime. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u6	President. I'm completely aware of the situation. It's all about priorities, it's about ideologies, and it's about how to set priorities that are supposed to be used. Obviously, there are no priorities in paying a decent salary to the classes we have recently seen that society would literally collapse without. It's about priorities. I'm pointing out that when it comes to the defense, the space has been enormous, but we're also trying to protect society's foundation. These groups are doing their job. We want to defend society's foundation, which means paying a decent salary. How is it that there is endless space when it comes to saving companies in that defense struggle, but when it comes to a defense struggle for society's infrastructure, for people who work in essential basic services in the community, there is no room for room? Unsatisfiedness, stress, and illness lead to lack of appreciation. [[The president calls.]] It festers the basics of society, and I ask the highest. Secretary of finance: What will it cost to the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u7	A respectable president. Hv. A senator comes here and tells us that we have no understanding that we need to protect our welfare system. What's the problem? A senator that these 250, perhaps 300, billion in a corner of the government budget this year, except to pay off government employees pay, support our social security system, our social networks, by rent-making, etc.? What's the problem? A senator for this to go away? He might want to learn how the State's expenses are divided. We are setting priorities in protecting public service, the drinking of the combination, in these enormous times of difficulty, and in borrowing all of this. We borrow to defend our public ministry. Here we go. A senator says that because we don't want to make agreements beyond the prerequisite biographer agreements with certain classes, we are not setting priorities. This is bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u8	The President looks like the best. Minister to give a witness. Councilmen with full name or district number.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u9	Mr. President. Countless funds from our joint funds are now used to help companies, and conditions are normal. The requirements set are e.g. on income losses, the company's position for Covid-19, the rates of remuneration, no remuneration, unassigned bonuses, personal stocks, recessive loans for currency or loans to owners or close partners who are not needed to maintain business management or management since March 1 and also at the time of the State's budget. The company needs to have returned credit institutions and public fees. They must not have been taken up for bankruptcy, and finally there is reason to believe that a business could grow and thrive after the pandemic. There is, however, no mention of tax smoldering or deportations. We do not want to pass the taxpayers'funds to those who have betrayed their taxes and have not contributed their fair share to common funds and intend others to share their share in the welfare system. The Panama Documents showed that the scope of the Icelandic economy was unique in the world at the time of the data, and we know the interaction between mother and daughter members of the low taxes area and societies. So I want to ask the highest. Economic and economic Ministers: Is it not necessary in his view to set clear conditions for individuals or legislators with registered ownership in an amendment or in a low tax area or to own a relative or company registered in low tax areas not to receive any assistance from the State?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u10	A respectable president. We have that condition. These conditions were written because of the loans'agreement with the Secret Bank, where it is required that those who intend to seek the bridges have complete and unlimited tax restrictions in Iceland. The same requirement is found in the bill currently used for the treatment of a financial and business committee for support loans. It is written into the legal field, i.e. The bill, that the total and unlimited tax responsibilities in Iceland are a requirement for such loans. I believe this is quite clear, and I take it that those people who have taxes in any other country do not qualify.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u11	Mr. President. It's not true at the highest. Minister that it is guaranteed in the government bill that a tax company is not supported. Nowhere are conditions that make room for companies who take advantage of tax cover or possessing low taxes from the government. Experts have identified this. Þorláksson, former government tax manager, has expressed himself in the media and said that the financial support bill does not address the problem in any way whether companies who receive government support use a tax host or are holding an interest in tax industry. That bill refers to the same conditions as the highest. Ministers spoke of earlier, only referred to paragraphs 1 and 2. income tax laws that have no way of handling these issues. The French secretary of finance has announced that France's condition should reach companies with departments or subsidiaries in the tax industry. Danes have built fences in this regard. [[The president calls.]] More countries have done the same thing than if I understand the supreme. The financial and economic secretary doesn't think he has a reason to do so here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u12	A respectable president. Obviously, I need to repeat what I said. In case of a moment. A senator reads the financial contract and the Federal Bank sees why. A senator made it clear that only those with full and unlimited tax rights in Iceland have the right to obtain the resources. The same article is written in a bill on a support loan for the treatment of the council. What I'm trying to do. A senator is referring to this, and in his history is extremely vague, if they have complete and unlimited tax obligations in Iceland, they can connect with other people who may have their tax obligations elsewhere. Even those issues are discussed. specific tax exchange regulations in Iceland that have been set up here at the General Assembly and limit the possibility of national bodies to benefit from lower taxes in such areas. I'm sure it's carefully checked in the Committee office, and it's just wrong. A senator is trying to skim over here to the kiss, that we have not considered this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u13	A respectable president. Now it's becoming clear who is in priority for this government. Scarers get hunger lice, 20,000 bucks, all they have to do is tighten the belt. Then they attack youths and older citizens who have saved themselves for vacations. The money they give is returned to a travel office. We have some weird fines where we fine those with 200,000 bucks. 80,000 dollars, but let's do the same for someone with 800,000 bucks. The highest salary rate may be broken off by four, five, six, seven times before reaching the same level as that of those on the lowest wage. But then we're helping companies. There's nothing wrong with helping the companies, but homes, no. And what about now? It was said that we wouldn't have to worry about inflation. But the situation is that we need to be very concerned about inflation. The latest forecast of the Penitentiary Bank is 1.4% inflation. If we just take the last forecast that was only 0.10%, but it ended in 0.5%, five times more. Now the late bank is predicting 7% inflation. And what does this mean in English? The economist is miscalculated, and inflation is being calculated by trips, but there was no one traveling. And of the hairdos, there was no one going to hairdo at the time, but all of it was taken into, wrong numbers. They are used to cover homes of 2,930 billion. This has to be done five or ten times, and the government's homes have been saved by a set of 200 to 300 billion. Is this what they're headed for? I'm going to ask you, "How's it going to be so bad?" The secretary of finance saw to it that the Haust Room, a human task, is to calculate inflation, to do it right?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u14	A respectable president. I really don't know what to say to this inquiry. I believe the Haust Office is calculating the inflation in a very professional way and is supported by the internationally acceptable way of doing so. In fact, after a conversation with the labour market, we have decided to have one of the top specialists in the world to examine the composition of the index price. I expect his findings to be available before long. I understand that work is far away. Then it can. A senator who seems to be an expert in this field may reflect something in the findings of the internationally recognized specialist. Hv. A senator was here giving a speech on the fact that the priorities of the government were not correct and were being worked solely for an enterprise, but not well enough in the interests of disability, adolescents, and others who pay taxes. I'm just gonna pray. A senator is concerned only about the value of jobs that have been present in the country at the expense of the economy, the possibly 30,000,400,000 jobs that are losing at the moment. What are they worth for our ability to run a well - organized system of welfare here? Perhaps for the first time, we have had an amazing school textbook in our hands that you could hardly think of in class. Now we've seen it crystal clear what it means to lose these jobs. That means we can't afford social security, not afford the school system. We cannot afford to run hospitals, pay interest to members of Congress, or other government officials. We need to take care of that loan. Little wonder, though, that governments stress the importance of restoring these jobs, creating new ones, so that we can protect the health and welfare services of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answers. Thanks to experts, homes have grown by 20 to 30 billion. This is all the experts. At the same time, the secretary of finance and all say: There is no inflation. Nothing to do. How on earth are these calculations? You didn't answer that. Is it okay to get some work done? Yeah, it's cool, but maybe they're supposed to take home from the same people who have insurance loans? Nothing to stop? Can it be in a freefall? Why don't we stop temporarily? Why is it so hard to take a house out of insurance, stop temporarily for six months so that both houses are not offered above people, and also that they don't lose everything they have in their apartment because they've made the loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u16	A respectable president. It's just a few blocks away. A senator said that there is a index without housing. It is one of the things we declared in connection with the design of the biographer agreements that we would present the bill of that material. The bill of such a law has remained a member of a body of government members. I believe, however, that there is something to be careful about calling for that change. There is very strong evidence that without housing teams, the index would develop in a more adverse way than an index using a housing team in the exact setting that has developed today. This, in turn, would result in damage to the families we live in. A senator agrees that there is a need to be careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u17	A respectable president. This is why I would like to review a question I sent to the highest degree. Secretary of finance, mid-January, less than four months ago. In the foundation, the query is not a complicated, really a yes, or no-question, but there are certainly two additional questions that may make it possible for you to have answers, although I believe that the job to answer is not being carried out in the Ministry of finance at this round Covid time. What I asked about back then, and I'd like to curious about here on this occasion, if there's a new International Hospital administration. or to that end, governments have sent up an updated budget for the construction of a new hospital. Because of khf, regular criticism is made. It is difficult for the State to obtain information there. It is true that in most contexts public societies work in the same working environment as traditional partner enterprises in this respect. In view of the fact that there is a great deal of enthusiasm for the community's implementation - this is a transport package for the capital area, the city line, and such - I consider it to be a total minimum of as important a task as it is for the council to realize if there are any changes in the plans for the project. I calculated that the answer to that inquiry would be pushed forward or back in a short period of time, but it's about four months, so I'd like to ask the highest level. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u18	A respectable president. I'll take note that the answers to this inquiry will be prepared as soon as possible and reached the council. Thank you. A senator for understanding that changed circumstances have made it difficult for us to carry out all our assignments. But for this reason, I would like to try to discern whether. A candidate is talking about the cost strategy for the treatment core alone, which has been most discussed, i.e. The new buildings, and how much it takes to build the new buildings at the Land Hospital or at any given time. A senator is talking about things in a larger context that would then begin to rebuild all the old houses, also changing them for their new purpose. We can take, for example. all the old houses at the Land Hospital, where we will move our operations into the new treatment core and connected houses and will still respond properly. What will we do with these buildings into the future? And it has also been so that the cost plans for the construction of a new land hospital have not been available at this time - in fact, we've discussed this with only the development of financial programs in recent years - have taken full account of all the needed instruments that the National Hospital faces the need for an attack in the years to come. Therefore, it has been a little vague in the general discussion of the costs of the Land Hospital's construction whether it is just talking about the costs of new buildings or the need to buy new equipment in the next decade, as well as the expenses of old housing and costs that will fall to reassign it. The old buildings.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. It is now that the cost of rebuilding the old buildings was so stupid that I don't demand to be tried to answer it, not even in my written request. This reassessment must be taken from the bottom of the ground. But in this request, I'm just talking about the new buildings. There are other factors that will be considered later, but at the top of the row, I would like to get some information on this subject. Of course, this is interesting, too, because it is the highest. A minister spoke of the future, that it was looked for a new location for the nearest hospital when the decision was made to complete the building on Ring Lane was being made. It was mostly known as Vifil and Köldnaland. Vifil positions were then sold to Garða, and it's now being moved by the Netherlands, if a bill scheduled for its completion, into a new community that has to do with city funding. But there are new buildings. [[The president calls.]] That would be interesting, if it were the highest. A minister of finance has time, that he informed himself of how he envisioned a later period of construction for the nearest hospital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u20	A respectable president. Yes, I believe it must be possible to come to the council to answer about these new buildings as soon as possible, in fact, it will help us stay close to going to an tender auction and such pioneers. As for the future location for the nearest hospital, I'll agree with it. The important thing for a senator is that it will be decided on time, and I believe, in fact, that both of these places mentioned may be considered in this regard. I don't think it's that big of a hospital, but it's in the main traffic. It's like the Vifil position country. There is still my chance, if you think far into the future, to assume that projects could be there to build up in future health workers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u21	A respectable president. People on the run and people looking for protection. Last night, for a discussion, there was a bill at the top. Minister of Justice on foreign matter. The bill remains largely unchanged from the original bill as the latter. Minister of Justice, Sigríður Andersen, first made a consultation. It discusses the possibility of international protection in Iceland and the ability of governments to dismiss these same people. After last night's discussion, I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Minister of Justice. The red strand in the bill is strengthening the support of the Order of Dublin. In the context of the sections here, I think that must simply mean that those who have got inside somewhere else, wherever that is, do not have shelter here. It doesn't matter where they are, where they are, or under what circumstances they are and what circumstances they are waiting for. Simply put, there is very little behind the label to have, for example. being given international protection in Greece and claiming that it is a real protection from people sent out in hopelessness is not good politics. All of this is expressed under the merit of efficiency and simpler language management. Although it's a good time, and it's always a big deal to shorten a court period, I allow myself to say that it's not the waiting time that has disturbed the public here. The shorter treatment period is not the big truth when the outcome becomes malicious, even inhuman. That's not what's been called. We have seen the sad stories of people, adults and children, who go to Iceland for shelter, and there are people who really need this protection. This is a matter of knowing my steps back. I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice: Is this a matter of personal interest in the government? It's new to the highest. Minister for the support of his fellow minister from other categories? Is there a solidarity on the case in the three federal categories?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u22	A respectable president. I repeat, that's what's happening. A senator entered, that the bill was unchanged, is not correct. As a result of comments from the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, for example absent from the fact that every court action that was taken out would require a major cause of reuptake. Then there's your priorities. It really matters where people have been. We're using, like, bait. not the Trinity rules for Greece and Hungary because of the position they are living in today's world. We don't send people back to a refugee camp in Greece. Of course, regarding the bill itself, we are considering the time period, such as the year. A senator came on, because it's unacceptable that so many people coming here have to wait for months, as we've seen so often, on the final result. We must set priorities for those who are in a real need for protection. Our security system is not exactly designed for people who are protected in another state even now. Despite the changes in the bill, those who are protected elsewhere receive an individual examination, i.e. receive an interview and can submit the information they want and provide reasons for their protection here despite any other protection. Resurrections must never violate 42nd. alienations based on Article 3. European Convention of Human Rights. Of course, we should discuss that people who are protected elsewhere and who have rights, such as citizens of other European countries, should be able to come here and get employment permit. We should reason that they do not necessarily belong in our defense system, where we must set our priorities. Despite the fact that 531 individuals have been protected through this system of things last year, we must be more successful in the administration of the alien system. It's an unacceptable waiting time today. We need to be able to handle matters better and faster on the basis that people can have effective adjustments sooner. [[The president calls.]] With regard to government solidarity, as we have seen, the unique warnings of the left green are at a few points on the bill. In fact, the bill may include a number of changes other than the one change. A senator refers to him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u23	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice answers. Its power and authority belong to the three governments. The question was simple: Is there a solidarity in the three federal categories? V.E.G. A minister answered that there are preconceived officers. All who have heard who the warnings are realize that they are important. I'm afraid the answers made by a justice minister are finely wrapped up in what is being set up, and I'm worried about that. I think this politics is a lack of humanity, compassion, and responsibility. Those in charge who have spoken on this issue by VG have either expressed doubts or even up to that point of opposition. It is wish that they have the courage to stand up to them for doubts and to stop them. Indeed, priorities must be set; indeed, those who are in the greatest need must be looked to, but the concern is where that line is drawn. This conclusion, not to those who truly need it, will offer very few protection. The result will be: Few people can search here, and many will be dismissed. It's politics that you can't agree with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u24	A respectable president. It's so wrong. A senator who after leaving this bill, few people will have the opportunity to be protected, that there would be few available. It's so wrong. Senator. Today, we see that all who receive positive answers in our system are just the ones who are really in need of protection, fleeing from persecution in their own country. An increasing number of them come here to apply for the first time in Iceland and have not applied for another country, have no protection elsewhere, and really need protection. People who agree to be protected elsewhere are usually given a negative response in the Icelandic system today, so it really does not change much unless it speeds up the response. Whatever it is. A senator comes in here on, compassion, empathy, and responsibility, is just what Iceland's foreigners and foreign policy is going through, compassion, responsibility, and caring for those who come here in real need for protection. We're doing a good job, we're doing better than any other country around us to receive people, whether we're doing a lot of work or how we're reacting to Covid, and we're giving people international protection because of the circumstances that are going to affect 225 people today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u25	Mr. President. In the United States, we support the changes made in the more part of the world, and we are members of it, but what we felt was lacking in this bandorm was having homes that had suffered a major loss of income, and especially those who have lost their jobs. That is what we want to do by increasing our unemployment rates, which are the first ones in this proposal that will vote for a follow-up. However, here is also a suggestion to increase the stratosphere set to children who are unemployed, and then I propose to 3. Um, um... ... fortheemploymentofthe board of directors, so hopefully they'll get a positive economic and business treatment. Finally, votes will be paid specifically for students to obtain unemployment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u26	Mr. President. In this difficult battle, we have provided a number of necessary measures to protect our country's businesses from losing income so that they will hopefully remain functional. However, we have not done enough to protect our homes and people in the country from financial loss. Indeed, it has fixed expenses as well and has taken steps far ahead of time in a normal setting. Hence, it is essential that we look for increases in unemployment, raise maximum income levels, and then meet thousands if not tens of thousands of homes that are now due to a temporary drop in income. So, I hope our members of the board vote with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u27	Mr. President. We're here paying votes for changes in unemployment proposals. That's obviously a good mind behind them. But I don't think it's time to act this way right now. Yet, it is clear that if we become unemployment for a long time, this is something we will have to look at in later stages. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u28	Mr. President. We here vote on whether to raise basic employment benefits to the minimum in these unprecedented days, but we also vote whether the 17,000 students who now have complete uncertainty about their progress over the next few weeks and months will be able to provide for their families for the summer, will be able to pay their rent and support themselves and their children. Listening to what is bad is heartbreaking. In this day, when students are completing their spring years, a senator of the left movement says that it is premature to vote to secure the progress of students. It is also amazing to observe if the left movement ◯ green supply is actually going to turn these needed suggestions into practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u29	Mr. President. I'd like to acknowledge that the Council of the Convention will vote on this matter. This is a temporary arrangement to meet a vulnerable group in an extremely difficult situation. It is true that there are many factors involved, that need to be discussed, and that we take into more context. Such decisions would all equally require careful treatment. The same is true of all the measures taken here by the government to meet the situation of companies and households in our modern times. Taking this sensitive group out specifically and saying that we'll just do it later is a very peculiar message. In the spirit that we are facing unprecedented situations, the council supports this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u30	A respectable president. We vote for our proposal in the United States for increased support to students. Of course, 3,000 jobs are good in themselves, but they are not far from the vast number of students who are now facing an enormous challenge and who are struggling to make ends meet. Often these are students who come from less - material homes, and it is vital that they receive increased support. I'm hoping this one of our proposals will get a gang of railroads here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u31	Mr. President. We vote on a matter that can be said to be a fundamental change in the thinking of the unemployment insurance system. We already added on the student's summer work. It has already been handled by so - called summer loans for the students who do not get a job for summer, and we rely on the rural communities to do so, as they did during the fall, to respond in a handsome way, to create jobs for students, so that students do not need to have a career in summer. For these reasons, at this point, there is no reason to agree to this proposal, so I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u32	Mr. President. 17,000 students will finish springing in the days ahead. Sadly, when it comes to paying their bills for the next month's conventions, it does not seem time for them to consider how they are going to feed their children. You see, students are all kinds of people. Students also have families, students have to pay rent, and students do not have all in their parents'deep pockets to attend. The employment reform system must also ensure students at such time points. We're in unprecedented times. Students are our future. We do not want these people to drop out of school at this point. Therefore, in the United States, we request support from members of the Parliament that, like other people, some students may temporarily receive our support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u33	A respectable president. We strongly support the suggestions given here. It is clear that students'voices are very one way. They're asking that these measures be set up and approved. It is only natural for us to discuss the situation of people in these unprecedented times when we consider everyone's circumstances, that we give attention to our people. This is a temporary suggestion that is very clear about the interests of students and their circumstances. This is not to say that all students will get a job. So, what's the message? That we should decide this later, possibly, and evaluate the situation later. This is not acceptable, so let's make a decision, and resolve a suggestion that will soon eliminate uncertainty, including students. That's why we support this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u34	A respectable president. In changing proposals from the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, which I think most members of the council here will support, we will make significant changes when it comes to reimbursement and innovation. I think it's a good change, but we're also walking in a new direction on how to divide companies by size and, as a result, we have more variable percentages depending on the size of companies. There are temporary actions and I think we're right at this point to keep them temporary, although I generally believe that these companies need to be able to see far into the future. We need to weigh the results we're achieving, but I don't really rule out that there might be a good reason to extend these actions later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u35	Mr. President. We here vote that the idea of leaving should be increased to innovation temporarily for the next two years. We all know that if we are to be successful, innovation must be our guide to the future. It's a suggestion from us at Resurrection. Now, I've heard some executives come up here and say it's all right, but it's just not time now, they're going to do it later. I'm sorry in a way because I don't agree that it's not the time right now. I consider this key to getting us out of the position we are in. I'm happy, too, if this is a promise that if the case is settled here, it will come into the government's next operating package because it's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u36	A respectable president. At the telorm, significant changes are being made in the bill, in particular in research and development, and because of an increase in reimbursement. There's a lot to do. It is a significant rise, and the situation is greatly improved. Therefore, it is not time for an even greater measure of action than this. This is a very important step we are taking now, and I also believe that in the late stages of this pandemic, we will need to decide whether an extension is needed, as in fact indicated by the later votes. I don't think at this point it's time. We don't know how long this epidemic will be or what the consequences will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u37	Mr. President. During difficult times, drastic action must be taken. We need to keep our minds fixed on the future. We know from bitter experience that it is important to draw strength and varied support to Iceland's economy so that we are less sensitive to tragedy than we can see. New creations and research are key factors in improving our future and strengthening our economy. All preliminary decisions are not beneficial. What those in need of innovation and research are confident that they will have support for the future. It is therefore essential that these actions are not temporary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u38	Mr. President. Here we vote on important suggestions, first of all, to give a substantial increase in support of the reimbursements made by innovation companies, have that stepwise, where small companies get more than the top roof for the big ones. There are also very important suggestions on the reduction of insurance fees by a quarter of six months and that only one quarter of the pay will be paid by the nonemployed companies during the next 12 months. This is very important, both for the future and for a short time. That's why I say yes, of course, and I think it's an accident that this proposal is made that I'm on this board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u39	Mr. President. Of course, I express support for the bill and the changes. The review of the case is made by the Economic and Business Committee. I wish, though, that I still have a little bit of concern. ... whichexploitedthe press. The exact design will be revealed. The Commission offers a suggestion for a little more specification for the highest level. The Minister of Education, but my comments specifically depend on the fact that in order to provide this kind of financial authority, a clear order must be made in the law on the guidelines that should be considered, and it should, of course, be careful not to have too much authority on the Regulation in this respect in terms of government funds. That's only what I wanted to make, the highest. President, but I'm on the other side of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u40	A respectable president. Of course, I support these changes. I want to take this opportunity to thank you for your cooperation. The Economic and Business Committee. I believe most members of Congress will even support this, since members of all classes were gathered on the committee. We'll make some adjustments to this bill, which actually comes out of a government package two. Most of the time at the Committee began to discuss the effects on innovation and research and evolution, and I'm very proud of that change. We go even further than the government had done and proclaimed in their remuneration package when it comes to reimbursement for research and development and tax rate due to investments in innovation companies. I think this is important. That's the front line. There's your chance. This is what we need to activate in the years to come, i.e. Our own intelligence, which we have for ever and ever.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u41	Mr. President. I want to use this opportunity to mention a special aspect of innovation, research and development in this bill. I believe this is an enormously important step for the future of the Icelandic economy. We actually started putting special laws on innovation after the collapse of the economy, a decade ago. Much water has flowed to the sea since then, but there is still much to be done in the working of innovation companies in Iceland and I believe the changes being made by this bill will be very important to support that work environment for the whole future and to reach the goal we have to aim to increase the development of the support of the European economy. To this I think that this and many other important changes in the bill may be the most important changes in the future and will support these changes, of course, and the bill will say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u42	A respectable president. I'm sitting by and putting yellow on it. In this bill, there's very little for the poor and old citizens, really nothing. It is really sad to see that our priorities are toward those who may be remembered and who need the most help. Unfortunately, they seem to be in the small office of this government, and she puts a little thing in, perhaps to put a giant patch on her conscience. I don't know, but I'm sorry, I can't support this, and that's why I'm sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u43	President. There's a lot of good stuff in this bill, but I'm sitting by. I voted with the first intervention package. There was a greater uncertainty and a need for solidarity, but I mentioned a few things that would have to be taken into consideration in the case of the State, in all the operations, and at the same time, when the government is making decisions on reducing taxes, paying down fees, in order to provide the inquisitors to companies or to those who need them, and so on. It has to be remembered that these companies can't make money, that they can't be buying their own stock and paying off money, that they can't raise their manager's salary, that there are some limits to which a company can own property on taxes - all of these factors that have been discussed from the start that the public will not accept, i.e. This is how government funds are treated that are not well cared for by the Council for the lack of government funds when trying to cope with the economic situation and the condition of the households in this financial crisis. [[The president calls.]] It's not well done there, it was done something, and it was fixed on the committee. The committee can be honored, but these things are not properly cared for. I'll stay with you until it's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u44	A respectable president. We are on our journey to support the Commission's opinion of the majority of the committee. We have drawn it out and have tried to approach this huge task with regard to how we can assist. There have been many positive changes within the committee. V.E.G. The prime minister spoke in blessed terms about the birth of the newborn, for that would be possible for the future. A lot of very positive things have been done here, but I miss it even. that our proposal for restoration was not adopted, which meant that the measures were premature. Thus, we would really be facing and coping with the future, where opportunities need to be increased. As I say, we support this development as it is, but at the same time, I draw attention to the few suggestions presented by the government force now are all in force.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u45	Mr. President. The thing we're accepting right now is good. There are many very good things in this regard. During our restoration, we have provided suggestions for making changes that have become evident to be unattainable. What really grieves me most on this issue is how reluctant my government groups are to look to the long future. Prime Minister spoke of the proposals for the future. All the futures of prime minister in innovation are two years old. It's not a long view of the future in innovation and development, and it breaks my heart too. Minister of innovation should not support these suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u46	Mr. President. I support these suggestions. You cannot expect to support suggestions to come to the rescue of a number of people and companies who hopefully become involved in promoting a business life and making this community work. I have to say, though, that I don't think that I can think of how little perspective is over the actions that the government has now decided to take on. Sjálography analysis appears to be extremely poor, diplomats as well as anti-Staters appear to be in complete darkness on how some measures will affect the future of Iceland. I'm sorry to say that there's a process of diagnostic work in the masquerade, and I don't think it's such a job. These are overexploitable funds that we are deciding to make up for the community. It is necessary to react, but there is also a need to recover from such massive operations. Nevertheless, I support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u47	A respectable president. I have submitted my fourth report on foreign and international affairs as Minister of Foreign Affairs and now developing co-worker. I hope that members of Parliament have taken steps to study the contents of the report. The annual report to the Generalis is an excellent reason to discuss the status and role of the foreign service at any given time, but as a minister, I have put forth great discussions and cooperation with the Parliament on these matters. I expect that we can have a more objective and practical discussion of foreign affairs here today, since these languages have rarely been as important to the Icelandic people as they are for now. A respectable president. On April 10, 1940, the Icelanders made the decision to accept foreign treatment in their own hands. This was an important step in ensuring Israel's future independence and opening up foreign service. It is good to bear in mind when discussing unprecedented times today that world conditions were no less challenging for a small nation in the turbulent seas of world history. During the 80 years since the intervention of these matters by the Icelanders, foreign service has made major changes. But in spite of the great changes that have been made in foreign service since those momentous days in the spring of 1940, as indicated by this extensive report, the main role remains the same; it is to protect the interests of the country and its people in foreign fields. In recent years it has been organized to reform the Icelandic foreign service so that it will be better equipped to meet today's challenges. We know that a storm can blow off immediately, and then there will be no time for ship to be loaded. In an instant, an epidemic has transformed the world scene into big and small. The world's nations face not only serious health problems but possibly the greatest global crisis of our day. Over the past few weeks, the international service has been on the watch and has shown by its actions that she was able to cope with these difficult circumstances. The improvements that have been made in recent years have made a big difference. Increased flexibility in the work and emphasis on information collection and information transmission have been effective in this situation. The Foreign Service has been working as one person to assist extensively in 12,000 Icelanders who were abroad at the time of the outbreak. Then the foreign service, along with the National Institute of Iceland, has worked hard to help Icelandic export companies in different settings and continue to map and clear up barriers as far as possible. There has been global competition for protective equipment, ventilators, and other health needs products, and foreign services have worked hard to help import their products. The embassies of Iceland in China have paid for the purchase and delivery of goods from China, and with a concerted campaign within the administrations have been able to pass the record rate of the contracts of combined medical products in Brussels and to avoid the introduction of the European Union to EFTA countries on specific protective equipment for health care professionals. Norse cooperation has proved its value, which is crystalline in the close cooperation that has taken place during the past few weeks in civil service. In the Northern countries, civil rights and democracys, which are under attack in the time of the crown virus, are at a position to support the poorest countries in cooperation with international institutions and humanitarian organizations. I don't think Iceland's gonna give up on that stuff. A respectable president. At the end of the New Year, the United Nations Human Rights Council for 18 months ended, the first as an elected representative. Iceland's election on July 13, 2018, can be proposed as a turning point, and the establishment of the Council is certainly one of the most important projects in the international work of Iceland. Emphasis on human rights has always been part of Iceland's foreign policy and, in fact, increasing in recent years, including increased involvement in the activities of the Human Rights Council. Iceland's success since 2017 has made a big impression on Iceland's ability to fill the gap that the United States left behind in the summer of 2018. It was suggested on the part of the Ministry of State to use the opportunity to be exorbitant, to promote much of its effectiveness in the council, and to take the initiative in certain matters. The most interesting thing was when Iceland had taken the initiative in March 2019 after a joint talk by 36 countries about the state of human rights in Saudi Arabia. When I spoke to the Council of Human Rights, both 2017 and 2018, I strongly criticized that some countries were like a spring break when the Council was to be discussed. It doesn't matter. Case that Saudi Arabia was elected representative of the Council of Human Rights during this period, but the Council's guidelines show that specific requirements are set out in Member States for the management of human rights matters. Iceland had dealt with several times earlier on the national situation of women in Saudi Arabia, but this was the very first time that many countries agreed to agree on such criticism. Emphasis on women's equality and human rights marked the U.S. National Institute of Human Rights. The Human Rights Council agreed to form Iceland's resolutions as well as other countries on equal pay for men and women. Iceland also suggested making the rights of queer people high below its head in its language. It is a sensitive group of subjects in the field of international cooperation, and much work is being done to promote national change of mind. For these reasons, Iceland had to work on it, and it worked on it. Most important, Iceland worked as a reformer of the Human Rights Council and was able to achieve some results during the period, even though there is still work to do. Iceland's leading role in the UN Human Rights Council was a test of how the Icelandic Foreign Service handles a major challenge. According to the reviews of international human rights organizations and large foreign media, we have faced that test. A successful foreign exchange is essential for the continuation of Iceland's standard of living. More recently, it has been put on high priority to provide Icelandic companies with the best potential commercial agreements and as easy as possible access to international markets. Since Iceland is a small open economy, the availability of foreign markets is critical. Access to foreign markets is simply essential for Icelandic and Icelandic economy as well as for Iceland as a small open economy. Good business contracts with foreign countries are the key to ensuring the best business ventures in Iceland. Iceland's free trade agreements have reached 74 countries, a total of less than 2.9 billion people, or more than one third of mankind. Iceland was the first European country to sign free trades with China and has been exported there three times since the contract went into effect. On the basis of a free trade agreement, we have at last increased export opportunities to China by contracting mutual recognition of health certificates for certain agricultural and marine products. As a result of its involvement, EFTA has made 29 contracts with 40 countries and areas. In that case, EFTA has recently concluded negotiations with the South America states, and with that contract, 300 million markets have been added to the Free Trade Network. The turning point last year was that a special report on the EEA Convention was issued at the General Assembly, until such information had fallen under the foreign secretary's report on foreign affairs. As it turns out, the Council is specifically an explanation for the EEA community through annual reporting and discussions at the Assembly Hall. This underscores the importance of this unique agreement for us Icelanders. It is important to implement the proposals given to the EEA Group last autumn and the council was discussed. The European Economic Area is and will become our anchor market. Of course, the EEA Convention is much more than a free trade agreement, and it has a completely modified commercial environment in the quarter of the century that has passed since it took place and made us more competitive, even at markets outside the EEA. But even though the EEA is our foundation market, we must not forget that the United States is the largest single market for Icelandic immigrants. In recent years the Ministry of State has given priority to developing even more economic cooperation with the United States, particularly in science and innovation. They've been very successful in the last year. As evidence of this, the United States government's interest in economic cooperation with Iceland is increased, especially following the visit of the U.S. Secretary of State to the country of last winter. Meetings with the U.S. executives, both in the board and in the U.S. Congress, have provided a series of drafts that would facilitate access to the U.S. market. For years, this has been a priority in Icelandic business life. Above all, there is the U.S. Department of Foreign Ministers and vice presidents of the United States on cooperation in Iceland's economic and commercial sectors with the head of both countries at a meeting in the Cape last September. Following the United States, Britain is the most important commercial country in Iceland. Britain is Iceland's largest export market in trade, and the international communications have always been close. Iceland's Economic Guard for the discharge of Britain from the European Union has been a priority for the Ministry of State for the past few years. Earlier this year, a signed agreement with the British, which releases from appropriate exits was comparable to that made in the premium of Britain and the EU. Iceland will soon initiate negotiations with Britain for future political relations. The discussion will take place during the up-to-date adjustment period and will be carried out in conjunction with the negotiations of Britain with the EU. Preparation is aimed at making a comprehensive economic and collaborative agreement with the United Kingdom. Iceland's agreement targets will be followed by events followed by a fleet of other EFTA countries in the EEA or by two-sided contracts in Iceland and Britain. This will be taken into account by Britain and the EU, where this applies and is consistent with Iceland's interests. The primary objective of at least comparable business agreements and other countries in the EEA area attempting to achieve specifics for Iceland's uniqueness and nuclear interests A respectable president. Iceland's Member States, to the Atlantic Community and to the two - side defense agreements with the United States, are once corner stones in Icelandic foreign policy. The changed European environment after an unsurpassed incorporation of Russia to Crimea in 2014 has called for an increase in the use of our world's resources. As a result, there has been a rapid increase in surveillance of submarine traffic, significant implementation of shelters and other constructions in the security zone at the Chefvígur Airport. During the past year, the activities of U.S. and other alliances of the Atlantic Community have increased in the northeastern Atlantic due to changing circumstances in security and worsening environmental security in Europe. The cooperation of Iceland with other northern countries, as well as Britain, Germany, and the Baltic States, in the field of defense and security has continued to increase. In particular, cooperation with the North countries has been increasing in recent years, and last year the Norwegian Foreign Ministers in a joint article presented the 10-year anniversary of the Norwegian Defense Team, NORDEFCO, to add further options to be better equipped to cope with crisis conditions. The objective of the Norwegian Protection Work is to enhance the protective performance of each Member State, to explore the synergistic effects and to facilitate an effective joint solution. The cooperation between Finn and Sweden with the member countries of the International Community on the scene is further an indication of the high importance all countries of the north add together to security and protection. At the Council of the North. In the fall of Iceland, increased international cooperation in the state and security sector has been a priority for the management programme of Iceland. They met up with my proposal to hide Björn Bjarnason, former minister, to write a report that will offer suggestions on further development of the cooperation of the Northern countries. There will be a special look at climate issues, multi-item threats, and online security, as well as the support of international cooperation and international law. The first stage of this work was a state report carried out by the directors of the Norwegian international institutions. spring on implementation of the 2009 Thorvald's 2009 report of Stoltenberg. A respectable president. Within the Ministry of State, development cooperation has gained added force. A new development policy was adopted at the General Assembly a year ago, which reflects Iceland's emphasis on taking advantage of the expertise we have in many areas of building infrastructure and working in developing countries in cooperation with Icelandic employment. In accordance with government policies, contributions to development cooperation have grown rapidly in recent years. More important, however, is the long - term mental and policy change in these issues with increasing involvement of private partners in developing cooperation. Without involvement in professional and private life, the national goals that have never been achieved. This is creating understanding and harmony among the nations, and it is vital that we do so. The expansion of Iceland's facility for developing cooperation is evidence of this transformation on our part, but it is hopefully only a clue to what is to come. A respectable president. Finally, I would like to welcome the opportunity to have a word with members of the council today for foreign affairs on the basis of the extensive report presented here at the council. Foreign affairs have rarely been as important to us as they now do for some time, and after 80 years of successful foreign service, they are now well equipped to care for international interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u48	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for report. I'd like to ask him about an article in the Morning Press discussing protective clothing for health care professionals, whom the European Union was part of because of the closing process. How serious was that? The question lies in the matter of dealing with the European Union, since such things can surface. I'm also asking about the EEA agreements because I understand that we're initiating the 13 to 164%. Is that a good deal, in part, or is it good and bad? Those we don't bring in, they're all bad? How to Choose I'll make it work in the first round.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for good questions. The second question is, I'll try to answer it. First of all, if this was a serious situation. Yes, a respectable president, that was it. It would have been very serious for us if this ban had continued, but it was on the basis of the EEA deal that we got them upset because they were breaking the EEA deal. And now, for a small nation, such as all nations, but especially for a small nation, when such things happen, it's good to be able to make a deal and to say to the other people: you're breaking the contract. That's what we did, the EFTA states, and there we had a good partnership with both Norway and Liechtenstein to solve it. I'll try to answer the second question later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u50	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It's a good thing that the deal has brought us back. But I wanted to ask: Is Secretary of State going to change because of Covid? Will there be more to telecommunications? Is this why the State Department's office will change? Then I'd also like to ask about NATO and military alliances, but it looks like we're about to start with some military confusion here in the north. Well, we could blow ourselves up with nuclear weapons and other things than I think it would be more like some small virus that we don't see with our naked eyes that could kill us much more. The question is, Is it not time for us to reconsider military alliances and focus on finding solutions to our much more dangerous little enemy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u51	A respectable president. Thanks for the questions. First, I'd like to answer the quick, short question that was large and we can talk better, but we specifically discussed the EEA case. I think we should choose from these contracts because the European Union in itself is not complicated. People talk about it as if it's something vague about what it means. There's nothing vague about that. I think we'd choose from, because what we wanted to take from the European Union we've taken into the EEA Convention. I think that's the short answer. But this needs to be discussed in detail. About the change for Covid, we've always called for more telecommunications. Now they have. I don't believe they're leaving. But that's not enough. Whether it is with foreigners or Icelanders, if you know the people, it's much easier to be at telecommunications. Personal ties never get out of politics or international affairs or anything else. Good to see you. A senator arrives at the Atlantic Alliance, for when Covid set up, the states of the Atlantic Community were united. The safety issues are far more extensive than those traditional ones. We are also watching Internet threats, Internet security, and, indeed, these present - day issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the report and the speech, and I will follow in my speech. In view of the unprecedented times in which we live, I found a minister's discussion here kind of further underscored the need to trust Iceland's position in an international setting. In my opinion, there must be some steps, and even though I am determined, we need to make the most of the effort we can make. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Does he agree with me in that? Will he support us in making an assessment of Iceland's state of regional international cooperation where the evaluation of Iceland's future status can be considered? It will simply be considered whether two-sided contracts are in place to protect Iceland's interests in this changing environment or whether we will deepen our international cooperation in many areas. [[The president calls.]] Is he supporting us in the restoration and other members of the rest of the council that there will be a committee arranged to rule exactly our giant interests? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I do not know how to speak this assembly. A senator refers to him. Of course, we've already done a lot of work on reporting, e.g. The EEA report, and we have indeed been very organized, specific and targeted ways of working toward our interests in other ways in important countries and markets. To me, we have an excellent diagnosis, and then we have to do it. I think, a respectable president, that in the past few years and decades, to be honest, we have been a bit wild in an apocalyptic suit when it comes to the matter of foreign affairs. This has been expensive because it has made it necessary for us to have emphasis on business care because of our cooperation and the need to care for our interests. Every day, I'm more convinced of that thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u54	A respectable president. This is a key question. I have praised the highest. A minister for reviewing the EEA partnership and for a very high-level report on how important it is for us Icelanders to have a seat at the table. But this is a bit of the past. What I'm talking about is the future mirror and that's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is he prepared to appoint a committee that has the responsibility to assess the benefits of Iceland in the international context for the future? What is the best way for us Icelanders to go now? Is it a two - sided agreement, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has actually been saying, or is it a step forward in our international cooperation, whether it is NATO, European cooperation, or other? So I ask the highest. Minister: Is he ready to work the assessment of Iceland's state of regional international cooperation? I think it's really important that we only see our future cards and work ahead, regardless of whether we want to enter the EU or not, and we go to work on our preparatory work, professional work where we get all at the table. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u55	A respectable president. I haven't seen this Senate case, but maybe it's not a big surprise. It's the EU - again. I think, so it's perfectly clear that we'll be... [[Up front.]] A respectable president. Have I disturbed something? A senator? I just said a word that you may not be allowed to say. What we've been doing with these reports, whether it's the EEA report or the future foreign service, is thinking about the future and how we can best protect our interests. When I'm referring to the fact that the discussion was in the wrong place, I think, a respectable president, and I hope, and I know that we were. A senator would agree, though we disagree on certain matters, that we have not had enough deep discussion, such as. The EEA deal. We haven't. There has not been enough discussion about our options and how we can best protect our interests. [[The president calls.]] This has led everyone to a misunderstanding, and we are a little bit involved right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u56	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister of foreign affairs in advance, and we will have a fine opportunity afterwards to take a closer look at the topic areas under a foreign report. I am interested in hearing what subjects and conversations are like at the highest level. Minister of Foreign Affairs to his colleagues in the North. On April 30, I made the highest expression. The minister of foreign affairs at the State Radio that it would be well considered on his part to open a border between the northern countries, but it would not have been a formal conversation. It was a week ago, and I would like to know if any other formal conversation has occurred since then and if so, if something has been moving on in those topics. I may also want a vision of the highest. Secretary of State for the prospect of reducing the limits to the movements of people between Northern and Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry on this very important matter. What we're looking at is a global crisis, and it's not going to strike, and we're not going to be fighting until we can cross-border. Therefore, since the first day of all these meetings in the North countries, I have brought up an issue that I believe that the North countries should set a good example. This is not really on the table of foreign ministers. Since the leadership has now been at Denmark's, we specifically directed at the last meeting to the Minister of Justice, which will handle these matters in Denmark that she called her colleagues together to discuss these exact issues. I've also adopted these issues with my other colleagues, which I've had contact with, as in the Norwegian countries and the Baltic States. I have also assigned all the embassies to investigate in an informal way the possibilities and the interests, e.g. On a two-sided journey. Then the government - and again, it's not at my side, but, of course, I get to it as a foreign minister - and we look at it in a working group what we can do on our own because it's very important. A senator referred to him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u58	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more than that. Ministers on the importance of this, to have these discussions on the reduction of the limits on people between the Northern countries, perhaps especially because the North countries have had different policies and emphasis on their response to Covid. Sweden stands out in sharp contrast, and then you can imagine that it could be a bit complicated. But the reason I'm asking about this is maybe the highest. The minister only came in with his answer, i.e. this coordination role. Now it's got the highest. Prime Minister had a formal conversation with Erna Solberg on April 16, with Stefan Löfven, April 29, and with Mette Frederiksen on April 24 and, like the highest. The minister of state came in is this also at the table of the Minister of Justice. I would like to know how the co-ordination role is between Ministers and if these conversations are being coordinated between the heads of society in Iceland and the heads of the North countries and what is the other line when it comes to opening up people between the Northern countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u59	A respectable president. So I'll only do what comes to the government then do the highest. Healthcare Ministers are normal to the important health issues involved. There's a special group on the government's side for travel restrictions. I think I can claim that we will discuss this at every meeting of the government, as well as the Ministry is working together and between ministers, so there is no question about this cooperation. To me this is the way it is: we don't want to take unnecessary risks. That's my line. However, we must be careful that we have the same thing when things start to happen. But the other thing is that we can do certain things on our own. I don't know if this answers the whole question, but everybody's calming in the same direction, that's such a short answer, for obvious reasons, and the cooperation is very good in this and in other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u60	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the history of this report. On page 18. Eight, like the highest. Secretary of Shalt, says: ▪ The turning point last year was that a special report on the EEA Treaty was given to the General Assembly, in fact, a certain wording - ◯en until such information had fallen under the foreign secretary's report on foreign affairs. This was the result of a report every year. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant, but the request requested a report on the pros and cons of the EEA Convention. The request was adopted at the General Assembly in three counts and at the highest level. The minister appointed a task force and published a letter stating that he would discuss the benefits of cooperation. I repeat, the appeal of the partnership. All can see the difference between dealing with strengths and faults and then making progress. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Why was the letter of distribution not consistent with the request? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u61	A respectable president. We've been discussing this before, and I'm sure we'll take it back. If we put this together, it was here for a report, and rarely, I can't recall a quick announcement made by members of Congress, that it was made that way, and this was done. A study of the report, as what is important in it is a very extensive report on the EEA Cooperation. I must admit, most respectable president, that I trust all reason. Congress and, indeed, the whole nation and indeed the reason. paritaprevir The offer of Þórarinsson's son to appreciate what he thinks is possible and what he feels is a defect. I don't think there's anything to worry about. I don't think there's anything to worry about. Senators. But I think it's key and it's been extremely important to draw out the facts and information. What one person thinks is ugly. It's an old story and a new one.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u62	Mr. President. V.E.G. Minister. It's not really an answer. What is one beautiful one, and what do others view as ugly? There is no answer in this discussion. It's very simple, it's necessary to get past the experts, the Ministry experts, the benefits and conservancy, not the benefits. The request needs to be applied. That's what the Executive Director does. When the Council asks for such a report, and it clearly states what is being asked for, it is to be followed. It was just not done. We do not need any talks or reports to review our relationship with Europe, just a realistic analysis of options and defects. It is simple and should not be afraid of it. This is what the Central Party stressed and repeated in three places. Yes, the report was made, but it is not in harmony with the request. The Eagle Letter is not comparable to the request. I'm not going to lean on the authors who made this report, they won the natural process according to the letter. [[The president calls.]] That's pretty clear, at least. Minister, that the request was not followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u63	A respectable president. I just couldn't agree more. A senator, first of all, that the request was not applied. This criticism was very late. I believe that, though there is a secondary factor, it is. paritaprevir Ólafur Isleus Ísleifsson was in Floki's house when he asked for this report, but that may be a misappreciative. True, I must admit that when I heard the sound, I was slightly afraid. A senator who often makes a fancy presentation here says that there are some experts who would need to tell us the pros and cons. I say for myself, I won't have any expert telling me what are pros and cons and I've never done it, and I'll never do it. Never. I think it's getting a little strange if the National Committee is calling for it, that they need special experts to tell them what's at stake and what's wrong. [[misunderstanding.]] We'll just be clear on that. Here's a basic diagnosis. [[Up front.]] I will never be told by a specialist what are pros and what are faults. But I would like those who know best to call on facts and put them on the table. [[Up front.]] Then everyone can evaluate the pros and cons. [[The president calls.]] And it doesn't need any help, at least not in my class.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u64	A respectable president. We'll talk to the secretary of state for a number of reasons. There is one thing that is recycled and recycled, but it is worth the fact that certain positive steps have been taken and, in my opinion, have the highest growth in development support, better extradating all development services and now in the Covid business is improving it. I also want to thank the government's special civil service and the staff who have come to help our people back home, answer questions, and hold them as much as possible, to be in a difficult situation. In foreign lands and under the circumstances in which they live. I must say, at the moment, after listening to a minister's return who was not very informed and much upbuilding, that I missed answers about the vision, answers about being allowed to talk about international matters. Although we know that completely, and I'm glad to hear that even now. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A minister has something clear about it, that we here are trying to complete a meeting with the European Union and go further in that area, we also realize that it is difficult to make that decision now with both the highest level. Minister and the rest of what we have here. What, though, can we do now in the unprecedented situation in which we now live? In fact, circumstances for Covid called that question. I'm going to review it better after that we just have to map out our international situation and try to draw something out where we want to carry it down. How do we want to keep track of our short and long - term interests? V.E.G. The minister of state spoke of, and I was very thinking that we hadn't taken it, as he put it, a macropolitic discussion about the EEA. We won this report, as I had in the past, a mirror of ancient times, which tells a story, and it is difficult to build and set up steps for the future differently than to understand the story a little bit well. This report highlights the importance of doing everything for us Icelanders to examine, fully and sincerely and vigorously, not according to local and local opportunities or any of their friendships, whether it is due to Bgret or to something else, the global interests of the country over time. The report made it very clear that the Icelanders and I grew our prosperity through the EEA community. We created a better environment for consumers, for competition, etc., absolutely priceless cooperation, but we need to consider the future because there are so many things that have changed. I'd like to mention what is stated in the Council's Relations and other members of Parliamentary Congress have suggested that the world scene was changed for Covid when it was changed to this day in the middle of a Korean epidemic. I'd like to run some shows. It's Covid today. We're seeing some signs of the air that are really bad, including... in the European Union, that nations are making a discount on democracy at this time. Large media that have include Consider the situation in Hungary, saying: The democracy is no longer working as it is to be done in Hungary, and so are the same ways. Serbia, Montenegro, and Poland must leave. It's dangerous. This is dangerous because Europe has been rocking democracy for so long. This brings us to think about and to do what we want to do in our dealings, both with that territory and with the United States. There is a risk of a certain kind of weirdness of democracy, depending on how the president of the United States behaves individually, apart from the major health risks involved in his decision making. When the currency collapsed and the banks fell in 2008, it was found that we Icelanders had no great refuge. The views of the northern countries were developed even. the position of others, such as the European Union and the World Bank Fund, who blessed us after the collapse and helped us. In spite of the internal market, we were not entitled to the European Union, and in this way we were unable to bring in political strength and despite the fine experience of cold war wounds, including. When you're in contact with the United States of America, you lock up the United States of America. Of course, all of this raises a question as to whether Iceland does not need to be concerned about changing political shelter. The same goes for China. In the coming decades, China will have to take the lead in the world, and Iceland, like other nations, must have strong and good relations with Chinese people. However, unlike the national ideologies, there is apparent danger for us and much less for a country less than Iceland. Let us see that over time the political cover of the European Union has increased from the Atlantic alliance to the European Union. It is important for us to remind ourselves that the Soviet Union's trade in the early part of the Cold War would not have been possible without the major political influence of the Soviet Union on Icelandic affairs, history tells us. Let us learn from that story too. We finally had shelter within the Atlantic Community, but as I say, the European Union's shelter is moving a little from the Atlantic Union into the European Union. Therefore, it is important that we answer the question of whether stronger or deeper international and international cooperation can strengthen Iceland's position in relations with China and other powerful countries. There are so many things that tell us that we need to consider how we are going to do this, especially the climate. Today, we find that scientists were warning us about Covid. There were signs, there were some scientists who said, "There's a virus like this coming." In many respects, however, people were not listening. That is why we should learn from it, and we should listen to it. on the most skilled scientists in the world who have repeatedly warned that if the states, especially industrialized countries, do not do something dramatic, something amazing, take some big step into that reality, then it's going to end badly. In that case, there is no nation of island, all the achievements in climate science depend on international cooperation. While the United States has moved further from international cooperation in this area, the European Union has achieved significant results in climate change, but this is not enough. The United States has also paralyzed the North Pole's work on climate. It may well be that the minister of foreign affairs doesn't agree with me, but I am determined that the United States has paralyzed that work in the climate, where me and the Icelanders have been leading. It is unlikely that there will be improvement in climates without international international international international cooperation being taken into the lead. That's why we'll be even. To find the answer to the question of how we Icelands cope with climate pressure in international cooperation. Then we can mention the globalization, the growth of international corporations, which are stronger and stronger than any one country. We see that the European Union and state alone find it very difficult to deal with the big businesses, such as Google and Facebook and Apple and what they all call, except together. Therefore, it is good to know that consumers and competition have been at focus amongst others. Margrete Vesthager, who has taken these big firms on a little bit of a bone. We Icelanders need to ask ourselves, " How are we going to cooperate and cooperate with us and how our interests are best served there? ' That's why I'm underlining the call for some future vision, a future approach, that we prepare for the future by calling on experts, calling out to people of all groups to review how we can strengthen Iceland's state on a global scale, whether or not we're going to take a trip. two-sided negotiations or international cooperation. We need to be prepared. Although we as class have certain opinions about where to go, for God's sake, we use all the time to prepare for the next blow, for the next decision to make, the big foreign political decision we have to make. She'll be here sooner than later. [[The president calls.]] Then it is best for us Icelanders and the Allied Parliament that we have done our homework. [[The president calls.]] She's left and she's even. The responsibility of the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I don't know if she was surprised, but you haven't heard a talk like that in a very long time. First, I'd like to correct that, because I'm chairman of the North Pole, that the Americans haven't paralyzed our plans for climate and anything else. It's just wrong, and that claim doesn't work. I've just never heard it before. A senator's declarations are made. I have to admit that I'm kind of speechless, to get up here in this situation, and to talk about the fact that the European Union is so strong right now when this challenge is in international cooperation. A respectable president. I'm at meetings regularly with people who are big in the EU and who are comparable to me in other countries. No one has claimed this, no one. And in fact, because the countries in the European Union certainly did not have a place of refuge, people are all as worried as they were during the financial crisis. Written articles and books on such things have been written, of course, endless coverage. But when we look at it here - are we going through Schengen? Should we go through the lack of cooperation after the arrival of Covid? Should we cross the divisions in the European Union when it was a shock? I just want to pray. A senator explaining this to me, to the council and to the nation, because it is news that the European Union has successfully resisted the test this Covid crisis is, there is much news for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u66	Mr. President. I'm asking myself if the highest. When I gave the talk, a minister was in the hall; I just wondered. But speak to the highest. Actually, a minister told me a lot and it's a continuation because it's obvious that a minister is continuing to publish a big political discussion about the EEA community. That's fine, let's go over it, and I hope we'll see the guide at some point in the future on top of the highest. Minister. In fact, that talk tells me much more. They are trying to appeal to the group that has been discovered, including the group. From the Independence Party to the Central Party, it is evident that the Independence Party is promoting the return of those who left independence to the Central Party. And I see that there is a more aggressive European and international cooperation on the part of a foreign minister than has ever been announced. That's what I read out of this, and it's interesting to watch it, is to the highest. Ministers are not concerned about American policy on climate. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister has discussed with his colleagues, the left - green government, whether there is any concern about what American policy is in climate, the American policy of climate today is a threat to us Icelanders and all those who have ties to the Arctic, if they don't realize it. It's no surprise, though, that from these camps people are merely smirking, jumping with all that comes from Trump. There is nothing new for me, however. But what I want here is that we are united in working out the long-term interests of the Icelanders, mapping our international cooperation. Is this what I'm saying that everything in the European Union is lost? No, I'm critical of what has come from there. That's what I said before, I'm critical of what has even been. It happens in the European Union, but it's also happening around the world. I'm afraid of the way and the journey waiting now if there's no sign of democracy. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm afraid of, and that's why I want to encourage the highest. Just to map our interests for an extended period of time in international cooperation. [[The president calls.]] That's where our interests are today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u67	A respectable president. I didn't understand much about this. I've never been accused of taking everything from Trump and supporting it. But at some point, everything's first. I was protesting that it is not right for the Americans to cooperate with the North countries. That claim cannot stand here without correction, for it simply isn't right. What we put together and cooperated was achieved is what we are working on in our prehuman plan. For the future, we should always look to the future, that's what we've been doing in the years I've been at the Ministry. That is why the report of foreign service comes to the future. When we're looking at the EEA, we're not looking into the ancient mirror just to learn and explore the situation. If it's a hard line to keep our interests in the EEA, okay, you just keep it going, I think it's a very tight line. I hope everyone's down. Congress officials are hard-lining about how to protect our interests in this important cooperation. I feel that way, and that's why some changes were made. I don't think we've achieved perfection in it, we haven't done enough in it, but we can do better. I'm a hard-liner when it comes to taking care of Iceland's interests, and I hope so. A senator would be the same. I want to trust it and believe it. We went to that job right away, and they put us on a team to learn what has happened in the past few weeks, as well as how we can best care for Iceland's interests in the situation we are in right now. I think away from this discussion we're taking now, I'm sorry, and I hope I'm wrong, that any great time will take place in a measure of interest that we haven't had to do for a very long time because of a good position overall in international affairs. And then, in particular, I refer to support of export companies as never before increasing the value in our country, and we will never get it out unless we increase exports. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u68	A respectable president. I'm glad you're under pressure. Secretary of state is the chairman of the North Pole. It is worth reviewing that at the time, U.S. officials had accepted the declaration regarding climate change in the Arctic Council. Then the U.S. Secretary of State arrives and there he refuses to take the word climate change into the declaration of the Northern Council of State. It's the highest. Minister of the Council? Has he forgotten? Then he comes here and says that the United States has had no effect on any of these. I think this is an ambitious climate issue. That's where I'd like to see the Icelanders kick their legs hard. But the northern nations did it together. Peace needed to be maintained. All right. But this is an example of what I say is a threat to Icelandic interests when the United States outright refuses to enter the Northern Council State Minister's declaration of the Arctic Council, and any Minister who came in there refused to accept the turn of climate change. I think that's a red alert. But well, the minister of the Independence Party doesn't think so. We just don't agree there. I think we need to be very careful when it comes to the United States and the climate discussion. It should be one of our main missions in the foreign politics to have a much wider climate policy than has been. But what is it that we find now and receive messages from even the others? The Independence Party in the Last Days? There is simply no time for a specific subject. This reminds us of the time when we right people were told that it was never the right time to lower taxes. And now, all of a sudden, it is not the time to discuss foreign affairs, international cooperation, let alone the European Union. It is not to be discussed now because it is not the time to discuss the matter, including the matter. An international organization. I reiterate my encouragement to the highest degree. Minister, put down a committee, task force, as a map mark for Iceland's interests in long-term international cooperation. [[The president calls.]] No one should be afraid, let alone foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u69	Mr. President. I have to admit at the beginning of my speech that I am a little bit shocked by answers and, in fact, a lawsuit of the highest degree. Secretary of state. I'm going to start off on a positive note, but I'm going to mention that we're in front of it, I'm coming in later, that the human race has to think very seriously about how it's going to enter the future if it's a good time to go. V.E.G. In his talk, a minister spoke of us as being in some hollow suit regarding foreign affairs. Yet, he answers with cover and spins and somehow tries to turn the matter into a question of whether we should not talk about things on a wide range of lines, how we and other countries will follow best, whether it will be done by isolation, two - sided contracts, or international cooperation, he will always bring it into the European Union. The European Union is extremely important and can be discussed in this special discussion about its benefits and weaknesses, what has been good and what has been worse in this viral epidemic, exactly as it would be possible to discuss the actions of the Icelandic government. But I'm just calling for it like a dog. A member of the Þorgerður Codorn Gunnarsdóttir Gnarsdóttir made that the minister of the nation's foreign affairs is slightly larger in thought than that, and I'm sure I'll come into it a little later. But I'm also going to file, so that time doesn't run away before it's done. It has many fine things, and many things are pleasing to us. First, I want to mention that the civil service, as presented, has been very strict in helping tens of thousands of Icelanders who were living abroad when the pandemic broke out. There is a special reason to thank the Ministry's staff for having acted quickly and safely, also to map our obstacles and help an export company. V.E.G. A minister certainly spoke of the importance of free business and valuables, but the highest. A minister may come to realize that there are so much more valuable than business value, which may be necessary. A senator before me was even. to discuss. Second, it is probably a compliment to Iceland for participating in the Council of Human Rights. There, human rights and equality have been well promoted. We have a new United Nations Human Rights Council to criticize nations and provide resources. Third, it is proper to commend the Ministry and Minister for the presentation of the report, which becomes more graphic and better and clearer each time, although it may be possible to expand the horizon. Finally, I'm going to commend the secretary and staff for a very detailed report and review of the importance of the EEA Convention and the value of European cooperation is valuable to our country. Of course, what a joy it is to have fasting that great international cooperation between countries is the key to a successful development here as well as anywhere else in the world! But in this similar world, which has changed considerably during the past month, it is very important to discuss these matters in a much larger context. I think with a lot of rich international cooperation, we can best guarantee our sovereignty. However, while Ministers are involved in the importance of international cooperation and challenges associated with the Covid virus, I feel that there is a lack of a future view. There are a number of solutions that will never be solved except in much international cooperation. The virus, of course, is very intimate in this discussion, so I do not mention problems related to poverty and inequities in the world and the climate threat as well as challenges that await us with crazy changes beyond the corner because of our new technologies. In this struggle, we see how a kingdom can cope with a sudden and negative threat. That's where we went. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir was well up to the bad developments that have occurred in Europe, so I do not mention the passenger going on in the United States today. We really need to be on our toes and discuss this. We are about to attend just because of the impact of this virus a very deep problem, perhaps the largest one in the world market for 90 years. It is no wonder that when countries face such problems without warning, what happens when they decide to stop walking in step, even friends and neighboring countries, and how we can in the future make sure that this does not happen. We also need to discuss the effects of this epidemic in general. It is fully expected that it can increase a need that already exists and exaggerates in the poorest countries in the world. Thus, it is quite possible to commend a minister for increasing contributions to development cooperation and for changing the work force in the seminary. But I'll have to repeat my earlier criticism that it doesn't mean a Minister's coming to a radio interview and saying that Iceland will not leave her behind. You see, Iceland is doing it. Iceland spends much less money for development, but we are well - mannered and much smaller than other neighboring countries. So let us be big once and try to set goals to bring it up as soon as possible. The report presents only international releases that concern refugees and population transports. It highlights the common responsibility and the current human rights agreements. I know, of course, that the alien law isn't exactly at all. Ministers, but there must be a link between these matters that are being discussed at the same time at the council, and then you cannot help but criticize the bill that came to 1st. Last night, of course, it's a big return to the litigation group. I further remind the presidents that in 2017 the presidents signed a declaration that immediately after that election was completed, the foreign law should be changed to improve the rights of these people and to increase the protection of vulnerable groups, women and children. Now, however, three different judicial ministers from the Independence Party have presented a direct return issue. I must criticize it, and it has to do with a conversation about foreign affairs, especially when it comes to highlighting our noble goals in the report. We have to stop this expedition and turn on a better path. There is something else that is not appropriate for us. I don't have much time left, I was going to talk more about the defenses and Ministers only came in on them, but watching that the scope of the Central Seas is to increase dramatically, and there may be reason for it, bearing in mind that the individual Ministers of the Independence Party are writing prayers letters to the local government and asking permission for tens of millions of action in battleships and so on. [[The president calls.]] Then I must ask a minister if it's not natural for a member of the State Department to include a minister of some basic defense debate in Iceland and if there's any change in policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u70	I want to thank you. Even if the nature of the matter is in harmony with the facts, we do not have to agree in everything. About that last question. A senator brought them here is no change of direction. We build our defense work and our security team on the force at the Atlantic Community, active in it, and on a two - sided defense deal with the United States. It's always been for what it means. We don't have an army, but we have a situation that we need, not just in the security and defense element, but that is a civil activity, which we feel is self-created and must always be, to a very large extent, built up with that cooperation. And just to be clear, because I think it's why. A senator be in a place similar to the man who spoke earlier: I'm always ready to discuss the EU, always.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u71	I wasn't talking about the EU.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u72	Then I got it wrong. A senator, on the other hand, if we discuss foreign and international matters, we must not be angry if not all agree. Hv. A senator here was well aware of our cooperation with the United Nations, which is of utmost importance, and I think we can be happy with our contribution there, and we are always to be critical of our own work, the Atlantic Alliance, the Human Rights Council, which, of course, is part of the United Nations, which we have taken out specifically, and the EEA. It's shown, for example. In the report, there are 600 groups of work that we can have access to through the EEA community. We need to be very alert to watch those groups when it comes to our cooperation. Then there's the North Pole, and I reiterate that our inventions even hid. In addition to climate and prehumanity plans, cooperation is going well. So went what? A senator for something that I know he is very interested in, a developing team. This is something that has to do with not just the present but the future, and we should have emphasis on all of these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u73	Mr. President. Yes, only on the development team. It's just not decent for us, even though we do pretty well to add now, in addition to the Covid virus, that the national Ministers come for interviews and talk about us not leaving us behind while we're so far behind the goals we've set for ourselves. That's just what I'm pointing at. I'm not saying that they're unnecessary. I'm talking about the need to talk about them. Of course, it is more than a phase difference, which is in nature, when the amount goes from 5 billion to 15 billion. And when individual senators are speaking in rural letters about 30 billion more in building up, we must ask: What is involved? And because this fine piece of paper is a fine picture, a textbook of memgers, which covers our international cooperation - the European Union and the EEA Convention, where NATO, ASE, and God can know what - then a minister must stop freaking if we work together in Europe and think it's all gone. It is the key to our success today, but a minister must somehow abandon his obsession and dare to start talking about the changes that are taking place in the world and how we best do things there. Is this the way or the other way? That's why I must support this call. Councilwoman of the Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir: Would a minister want to report her request? Just answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u74	A respectable president. Of course, there is a lot of news for me that I've been freaking out about some matters in connection with a global discussion, and that's information that has not been received at my table. When it comes to defenses, there's no difference in how we cooperate. However, in the long run, little has been done in preventing desensitization. It tells itself, on account of the changed conditions in the environment as well as the changes in technology and so on, that such activities need to be maintained and replaced. It's no secret that when it comes to Helga, I think it could be a very good investment that would benefit us not only in security but also in civil activities. We are, for example. to use the light guide in the direction we fly, and so on. But as for this proposal of a report that I have not been able to study, I generally welcome all the points involved in these matters. Whether it's right to go to this report, I don't know, but what I'm stressing is that if you say they're in agreement with the EEA deal then you'll have a sound and a picture to go together. Then, men may want to take some other steps, but we must, if we are able to defend the EEA agreement, to support the development and support the interests of the field, to do what needs to be done and to do what is to be done. suggested in a report of a staff led by Bjarnason Björn when it comes to them. One of them is an increased discussion of e.g. the theoretical show there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u75	Mr. President. We've always talked about how we want to protect this important business agreement, but it doesn't rule out any bigger looking. And because me and the highest. The minister of math learned from I think the same teacher and we both learned about the leftovers, we know that the EEA deal is some kind of shareholder in the European Union, and then the European Union has some kind of shareholder in an even bigger partnership, and these two things can be discussed, and where is the best place for us to be? But I agree that it's probably right by the highest level. Minister that he is not freaking out because he does not want to discuss foreign affairs. Probably this is totally cast out because the independent party at the moment finds itself in the uncomfortable situation of being confused and divided between views on the other hand, a restoration that wants more international work and on the other hand, the Central Party, which has been more cynical about it. It's a little hard to be in that place to be ready for everyone. The host may say just as little as possible and try to get away from all the discussion. A declaration in one direction may be dangerous to him on the other side. I think it's really just right from a minister, it's just a perfect political diagnosis of the situation. The independent party is in a difficult position between them, and that is why a minister wants to stay in the troll roof, which he thought was the matter of foreign affairs at the moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u76	Mr. President. The secretary's report is a large document, and I'm just going to choose or stick to a few things that will be the only ones that will next to me, and then the diversity of this discussion is likely to develop. I'm just gonna start with the North, I don't need to explain their global significance beyond the size and, of course, that this is our environment. At least four are the workam, first of all, the Arctic Council, and I believe that the leading work there has been successful and worthy of attention. There we have emphasized plastic, which has been here for discussion, and it seems to be quite consistent that it is an important part of the future of the north. Of the 80 specimens taken around Iceland, so I mention, for example, microplastics were in a mussel in 78 locations all around the country. It tells us something about the direction and importance of plastic. Here it stood to have a Ministerial Conference on the North Sea, an example of the international cohesion that the coronus postpones. The climate has been very high in Iceland at this time, i.e. reduction of emissions, but notably waste. Soil pollution is very serious, and the superpowers in both of these cases, both about emissions and the waste, I mean the superpowers here in the North, play a big part in the fact that something's happening. I'll get to it later. We've emphasized renewable energy, it's also linked to waste pollution, and most important of all, northern communities. All of this is shown in the report. We have a problem here. We've promoted gender equality in a place where it's not likely, in many parts of the north, and in one of the young people's drug abuses. There are also opportunities for innovation and new thoughts about the future of these communities, and all of this crystals in six working groups that fall under the Arctic Council. This is also crystalting in the northern economic council, where we too are taking the lead and even in the northern coast guard group, where we too are taking the lead. What is important in this discussion now is simply that the cooperation has been successful and continued, no matter what. Trump and Mr. Pompeo has said, most of them are protesting. That's what really matters about the role of the United States in this part of climate. You see, it's been going on, but I'm not gonna say that shit, but I'm gonna leave it there. The center has also been part of the Arctic Conference, or what we call CPAR. It is the contact between the legislature in these countries and the Commission. In the United States, we serve on this small Senate Committee, which is our annual report, and I can only refer to it. But what's important there is the conference declarations, which are up to 35 teams, and the last from Inari has now been identified in the Ministry of State at our request at the Council of Congress. It turns out, if the analysis is reviewed, what has happened, what Iceland, what the Council of North Pole wants to do, that the success of the Icelandic National Parliament in putting matters on a program in the Arctic Council has been surprising. I can then refer to this review that we on the committee will at some point be aware of. The northern dimension is a third factor in which the European Union, Iceland, Norway, and Russia work together. The result? It is now a modern waste drain in St. Petersburg, and it is being helped by Russians with radioactive waste. There were hopes at a Ministerial Conference in this country too, but it has had to be postponed for various reasons, including political reasons, but hopefully he will be held. The fourth team I wanted to come to is the Western partnership. The report shows that business and communication with Greenland have intensified and that's fine. The Hoyvík Convention, our business contract with the Faeroeans, was canceled, taking the initiative of the Offeymen themselves. We hope to see an improved agreement that will begin working on, encouraging them to continue and to improve their trade between those countries. The Western partnership will be late overrated. All I want to do is enter the U.S. National Institute for Human Rights, and suddenly it arrived, 2018 and 202019. We've discussed it before, and they agree that we've had meaningful and positive experiences, e.g. While taking the initiative in Iceland to criticize Saudi Arabia and Philippines, many pots are broken and there are plenty of projects, including in our own continent, in Eastern Europe, where countries have been falling apart. But then I just want to remind you of the earlier discussions that it was long before Covid's time. We will consider the possibility of reinstateing the Council of Human Rights to a normal period of three years. There's a certain cycle of northern states, and we have a chance of getting ahold of the council and having good business there. There are plenty of other concerns. I mention Turkey, and especially at this time, where further members of the western bank are being discussed in opposition to all the international community, outside some countries. I strongly emphasize that Iceland's voice is heard when it comes to these states, Turkey, Israel, and Palestine. I'm going to take a few words on sustainable development, which is our focus on global resource and environment because it is partly on tourism. Internationally speaking, tourism must be sustainable, not just in Iceland, as we say it, but internationally. As in Iceland, the password is the future of international tourism. There is a range of tolerability in terms of the natural environment of the earth, the pressures of communities. The economy is under pressure, i.e. how they are put in their proper place. We know in Iceland that tourism is far too much of a part of our economy because it has suffered severe traumas and that, of course, Covid has shown us to do so. We've been talking about innovation, we've been talking about changing these numbers into Iceland's economic system, and that's very important. And then we reach the foreign - language air service, of course, because its structure must also meet some boundaries. It's clear we can go back to 4.4 million passengers a year through Iceland. But what about 5, what about 10, 15 and 20? At the present time, the aircraft itself has been 123/414% of gross domestic product. It's a very high ratio. We can start thinking of double this. Where, then, are the boundaries? So I'm stressing that we're really going to start planning the boundaries and put our weights on the balances, both the policy of international tourism and the tolerability of tourism in our own country. I'd like to discuss just a few words about disarmament. I believe Iceland's role should be very clear, contributing to widespread disarmament and thereby participating in a ban on the existence and use of nuclear weapons, i.e. The ICAN convention, which we can call, as more and more countries have signed and I think Iceland should be there in the same way as it should be guaranteed here that nuclear weapons will never come near the Icelandic economy or our domain because their use, however, is always a crime against humanity. I'd also like to mention developing cooperation because I agree that it is very important that we continue to wash it further up to 0.3% and continue as expected by averages to 0.7%. I remind you that today a special contribution to developing countries was made by Iceland on account of Covid. But whatever the case, I'd like to make a suggestion to the fifth school of the United Nations in Iceland. There's four of them. There is a novelty in the food industry, food supplements and biotechnology industry. There are a lot of companies in Iceland who can teach evolution experts a lot of things in that kind of innovation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u77	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for a good speech. What I see as the big picture in a talk. A senator is far more than just a minister's office at any given time. I think it's one of our assignments, huh? A senator went very quickly over it, naturally, during a short talk period, to put them in touch with what is going on in the field where members of the Parliament come directly to. It has now been commended that the report presents a more graphic presentation. It's a goal, it's no coincidence, because we're trying to figure out what's going on as simply as possible because people have other things to do than read long reports. I think it should also be a special project, whether it is the work of cooperation between the Ministry or the Senate, to get it better, whatever. Congress members are doing their important international work, which is of utmost importance. I agree with what. A senator in it, especially what he said about the northern languages. Happily, things are going well, and it is important that people be aware of what we are doing and why these things matter. Hv. A senator threw in at the end of the idea of the fifth school of CRU, now named CRU after we made a deal with UNESCO. That's an interesting idea. Another idea I've heard, and it's also interesting that we're going to have a special school for prevention because the ideologies behind the school are that we continue to share what we've done well. I welcome good ideas, but I think that what was presented here in a sermon. A senator sees that it is a special goal to deliver messages not only to a body but also to a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u78	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for and accept this with foreign affairs over their heads, they embrace natural fields, and international cooperation is in countless levels and in countless sizes if we put it that way. But I agree with what other members of Parliament have said before that it is special when dealing with foreign affairs at the General Assembly, in the general field, that the general members of Congress do not participate. It's a thought, and I think there's something I need to do. Regarding the proposal I made for the fifth school, the innovation of the food industry and the food and biotechnology industry, we have made this a highly marine and agricultural trade, and we would probably be suitable for a very many developing nations. The other one with the prevention, I really support you. So it could be the sixth school for me. It's nice to have an umbrella in this room that we call the GRO. This has been moved to UNESCO, as one knows. I just mentioned that prevention was important, and Iceland has achieved remarkable results under the leadership of a certain professor, Inga Dóra Sigfúsdóttir, of the University of Reykjavík. It had become an international project, including in the north, Planet Youth was its name in some places, and I strongly support it. There are other subjects that would be nice to discuss here, like the affairs of the sea, but we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u79	Hv. A senator may not be the number of members involved, but I also think that we should think it that way, and have, as it were, to take special attention to the report on the Council of Human Rights as well as on the EEA matters. This is so extensive that we should be making more of a certain factor in it and just giving us the time I need for reasons I don't think I need to reason any further. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned the Theocratic School, they are naturally large schools of Icelandic, but very few are aware of them. I hope it's going to change, and there's an experience, I thought, to come there. I've made it a rule to try to go at least once a year and look at our development projects, for reasons I think it's obvious, and I hope those who come after me have that, as a rule as well, and meet those who have been discharged from these schools to hear how the study has benefited them and what they've felt about it. There are very pleasant meetings, and there must be a great deal of trouble - and better things to go, but I've tried it anyway because we haven't reached perfection in this, no more than anything else. But I think this is a reasonable way, that since we have succeeded, we share it with others. For the precautionary matter, because of that. A senator mentioned them, then they link up with the Arctic languages, and these are often our next neighbors. We have, I believe, through this cooperation and other factors. But better, if it's enough. Of course, we can learn a lot from these people, but there have also been some of their current successes, and we should be very determined to share information and to strengthen cooperation, not only among members of the council and politicians, but also among the common people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u80	Mr. President. I'll say the highest words. Minister on the campus. There are 1,400 experts who have passed through this four - school of the United Nations, and we can imagine the wave movement out of their homes. I only mentioned the affairs of the ocean. It is an international agreement in preparation for the protection and use of the ocean, biological diversity, the oceans, a so-called BBNJ deal that will prove to be a major progress. It is very important that people remember that we are there. Another thing I didn't mention was online security, which is a new threat, since we have to be very careful. Anyway. It's so time that our foreign service is celebrating its eighth season right now. She needs to be strong, we know that. It needs to be efficient, and so do we. So there is reason to remember this from the symposium at the end of our discussion. Secretary of state to commend her work for her ministry in the Covid epidemic. It's been observed by other members of Congress, and I agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u81	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the report and all his staff for setting it up for us. I would also like to say thank you, who have presented themselves here in the complete sense of foreign service. I know there's been a lot of pressure on the staff in this Ministry in the last few weeks and months after this terrible Covid epidemic, and I know that everybody's been there to help the Icelanders home. Since I know people who have had to take advantage of this service, I know that it is very grateful. When you stand out in the big world in trouble, it's valuable to come from a small nation, knowing that there's someone here who's thinking of you and trying to get us home. It's certainly gone well. The report is wide, and there could be so much to review, but unfortunately, time, honorary president, way too small, and I feel that we would have to suggest that there will be a double speech period when it comes to talking about as much and as much important a report as this. So I've got a lot of things I'd like to share. We've been particularly discussing our presence in the Council of Human Rights, and I just want to reiterate how well I feel there. Recently, we heard news from the Philippines that it was closing a popular television station; she no longer received permission. It will clearly reveal the importance of freedom of the media, and I am proud of what is at its height. Secretary of state and his people have done so, pointing to human rights violations. It has been especially evident in the Philippines, as well as in Saudi Arabia and elsewhere. That's what we're supposed to do. We're always supposed to be advocates of human rights, and that's where we're never supposed to give any discounts. But what may be left to me in all these international affairs is a matter of the north. It's hard to sort into something important, but these northern states are so important to us that we sit in the Arctic Council with the North countries, but also the United States and Canada, and then Russia, at the same level with the same vote, of course, is extremely important to a small nation here in the North Ocean. These are subjects that I was interested in as soon as I entered the council and few were interested in them. But you see how interested you are and how important it is to grow. I have to admit that the United States has recently come back to realize the importance of the Arctic, that there has been a little forgotten in times, but, fortunately, they have now come to realize the importance. Arctics are very broad, and, of course, climates are an enormous part of it and just sustainableity in general. I know our headline in the Chairman is together for sustainable development in the North, with emphasis on oceans, climate issues, renewable energy and people and society. These are all very important factors, and especially the factors that attract sustainability and people and society. We must not forget that we are a northern kingdom, even though there may not be many who live within the line and benefit from it. We need to speak on behalf of people who live in the North and sometimes in the North, when we talk about them, I don't know what to say, somewhere in Central Europe or America, and people talk about this area a bit like some zoo we should be at peace with beautiful bears and glaciers. As beautiful as it is and we want to protect it, we must never forget that there are people there. There will be people living forever, and we need to be sure of their safety. This was called plastic pollution in the North, and I know that this project has been given special emphasis. We've been discussing only the climate issues, and this week we had a little discussion about the plastic and the fear that it would all come from China and some river there. Yes, there is a source of pollution, but I was very interested in seeing it in a report made available to us in the Western Council for our last main discovery that there have been studies on the coast of Greenland regarding plastic pollution. Now I don't remember the percentage, but the vast majority of that pollution came from urban areas in Greenland, so it's our thing, of course. This is important because we rely on this food box around us, the ocean. We ourselves are marketing and selling ourselves out to be clean, which means that we have a big deal to do with the plastic pollution as well. It's scary to see how much garbage and plastic is found in the ocean. I think we have a lot of opportunities in the Arctic for us Icelanders. At the same time as in northern Europe, there is a great threat, which is not least due to climate change, but also in such dire circumstances. There are three legal contracts that have been made in the Northern states, on search and rescue, on the common response to pollution and pollution crisis, and then on the scientific community contract. I see an opportunity for Iceland to become a centre for these factors. I have especially watched the scientific community, but obviously my search and salvation give me a lot of opportunity for our location too. In my mind, we should look to the structure of wood, then I refer to rejection and flight selection and the like, interior but as much as to scientific infrastructure. I know that the University of Iceland is working very hard on northern and scientific matters, but the University of Akureyri does too, and this has merely created a debate over the fact that Akureyri is supposed to be some kind of capital of Northland, and I've been saying here in the paper that I think it's kind of so much of an important role that Akureyri is playing, and there are many opportunities when it comes to these matters. What I'd like to mention here, at the short time I have left, about what I've seen in my cooperation -- I'm sitting in the Westnorological Council and, in fact, also in the ASE Iceland Department, I'm watching a little bit of our friends and neighbors, the Faeroys and the Greenlands. It is interesting, but it is also frightening how much interest has been drawn to these good friends of ours. Now, I'm here to form a sample of the grants and loans to all kinds of infrastructure that can be the best of things if you're holding well at all levels, but I'm no less referring to information and telecommunications. We were here informed that skilled officials had actually been threatened in this regard. We need to cultivate a lot of information. I know it's done, and there's a lot of stuff going down, and we've taken a little talk at the council on these matters, but I'm afraid we have to work faster. These are the issues we need to put on more. It's just really important. We'll also see that there's going to be a lot of trouble here. I was, for example. While out in Washington, when Pompeo came here for a visit, I was studying American Arctic policy. There was a talk here, and, of course, I was disappointed when the incident took place in Romania, and they didn't want to sign it as it was expected, but fortunately, there was some compromise. But the good news was that when you were there in Washington getting a presentation on what their institutions, governments and scientific institutions are doing, you can see that all the projects that have been going on in the Arctic Council are being carried out, and there are, of course, plenty of projects. There was no problem with people in this regard. But it also discussed a lot about Chinese and what position they were taking in this area where they define themselves, if I, as near as a northern state, some find very amusing. Of course, it is not unusual for the Chinese to show a keen interest in the North Pole. These may be delicate factors, but I still think it's a reason for us to consider these information, communication and security issues, since we certainly want to be in good cooperation with all nations, whether East or West. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate, a respectable president, that I suggest that we take it up on the Presidency Committee to extend the discussion period in the case of the Foreign Minister's report.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. There's two things I wanted to come on. First, I'm going to agree with what I think is a very good idea. A senator, and I know what to do. A senator controls--normally, I put it down. A senator until work - a group on a new northern heading, making that possible for more effective members of the council. paritaprevir A Ari Guðmundsson, who similarly appreciated this, said that it is part of our emphasis to speak for the four million people in the north. I thought why. A senator offers tremendous reasons for this and in times of need. A senator spoke in this way at the time when it seemed so obvious. But it's not enough to plan this, we've thought we would, but I think we could do much better. Happily, then, we have a global voice, and we are expected to use it, including it. Already the time has come to speak for the people living in the north. Of course, that includes us. Not to be overlooked is the prospect of living in northern lands. One of our priorities in the northern centuries is that of giving special attention to such ones for obvious reasons. Likewise was the problem. Because here we are talking about differences in security, which are the Internet security and information. There I think, a respectable president, we need to perform fast. I have emphasized that we have to keep an eye on what's going on and have been happening somewhere else because that's happening here too. There we must work closely with our closest alliances, e.g. North countries, because they are better equipped, have larger and more powerful control systems as well as security. It's very good to have a good time. The senator should discuss this here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u83	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I reiterate what I was talking about on the Internet security issues, and I agree that the Northern Union is a bit of a key there. I watched it through financial programmes and the good arrangements that we have had on certain diagnostic work, and one or two years ago I remember that we've been looking at Boston and a device that's been developed there at the university. In addition, Internet security issues are discussed in all of our international cooperation, whether in ASE or NATO and without doubt, with the European Council and for others, but it is a bit fragile when it comes to international security. So I think the North countries should be a pretty good associate for us at the time. Of course, we are to participate in the discussion at all levels. But when it comes to smaller countries here in the North Atlantic, we're supposed to think, especially this and, in fact, a lot of other things, to lean on the North countries and it's good to see how powerful and good cooperation is between the northern countries in general. I couldn't discuss the conditions we are now in, the Covid situation, but I hope so much that we'll soon be able to open up our borders and maybe be the first step right in the North countries. But I think there's certainly an opportunity, and we need to move faster. I've also said about the Internet security problem that I've been concerned about what they're dealing with in many parts of our system, and we know that there is always a problem with integrating. Of course, this is part of foreign affairs. This is, of course, a national security issue. It is a travel minister who is also associated with law enforcement and, as a result, the Minister of Justice. No doubt there would be more to be listed, since somehow communication will come on all sides of our community today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u84	Yeah, I agree with what. A senator and just so it is stated in this context of the cooperation of the Northern countries that we have placed special emphasis on our prehuman history in the Council of Safety and Defense, the cooperation of foreign services, and, of course, the cooperation of the Northern countries as a whole. We are fortunate now that my proposal was accepted and agreed that Björn Bjarnason is actually directing the report that is taught by men on Stoltenberg, which is now talking about the Bjarnason report. This is one of the things in the changed world that you see in the matter of security. I believe the discussion was too small here at home and the emphasis wasn't enough. Hv. A senator went over it a little bit. We have a code of laws different from those we compare ourselves to. We are, for example. not with an army, and there are some things that come to the defense differently. This is supported by the Department of Transport, and there is natural communication there. But this is an aspect that we need to look especially at. There is no one who does things for us. We need to do our work here at home, but at the same time, it is important that we learn from the people we work closely and work together in it. I'd be surprised if this isn't going to be a big thing in Bjarnason's report.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u85	A respectable president. Thanks again to the highest. Minister. I'm very excited about your Bjarnason report. I have no doubt that there will be much learning and interesting reading there. But the highest. The minister introduced just one key, and that is, we are an armyless nation. Now I'm not gonna speak for an army in Iceland, I haven't, but it's just where we see so much difference between us and other countries in this safety issue. I happen to have a brother in Norway who has served for a long time in the Norwegian Army in information and Internet security, and he has held several lectures over me in these matters. But because these nations have an army, they have all other sources of research. That's all an army can do but, with all due respect, at a desk at the police station or at the Marshal's office. That's where we access key elements, this is what defences are about most of the word today, i.e. Network security. That's because everything's connected to communication. I'm excited to wait for this report and know that we'll go deeper and deeper in discussion about these factors, but I'll reiterate what I said in the past: we need to keep our hands faster, because this is all happening at speed of light. But because I couldn't go over everything here, I have one point I didn't get to mention and lie to everything else and I'm gonna let myself throw him out here. This was a potential for new schools during our development cooperation. It's an idea I haven't done anything with yet, and I had thought to use this year in 2020, a year of nurses and midwives. Surely, we could do much in our development work by taking advantage of these wonderful professions and the much professional knowledge of midwives and nurses in this country to form in Africa. We have achieved quite a success, and this may be our chance to return more to our community especially in this business area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u86	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the history of this report, which in many respects is excellent, and I want to thank her and thank the personnel of the Ministry who worked in the reporting process, she is well and well prepared, easy to read that matters. I'd also like to use this opportunity, like many other senators, to thank civil service and only all the members of the Ministry of Civil Affairs who were involved in the viral epidemic. I've only spoken to the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs, and I know people who were in difficult circumstances abroad who turned to and praised the ministry. Thanks especially to our success in these difficult situations, which are truly unique. This shows that we have excellent employees to recruit in the foreign service, who spent the night working as a useful day helping Icelandic citizens in foreign lands. I'd like to stop at the beginning of our leadership in human rights. Although Iceland has become a party to most of the international institutions established since World War II, Iceland did not become an active member of the North countries. That is why this was an unexpected opportunity to sit in the Human Rights Council, and I'm thinking that we should seek a session thereafter when it comes to us and then in cooperation with the North countries and use the good experience we have in our resources. I agree with what has been presented, and I believe it is important that Iceland is always a voice in the international and voice of reason and that we protect human rights. We've had some bad opportunities here, and especially in peace matters, to my judgment. The secretary - general of the United Nations has, for example. They say that we have great opportunities, and they look up to us, something we should make use of. Now that our session is complete, we are to continue our judgment and to be that international voice. Even if we are no longer in the council, we are not to retire. In particular, I would like to mention that we need to keep it up for our cooperation countries, e.g. When it comes to developing cooperation, we need to get involved in the affairs of gay people. There's something we're supposed to hold on to. This is important to me because some of our fellow workers, unfortunately, have only a bad word about it, the way they treat homosexuals. Besides, I'd like to introduce a little something I'm a bit interested in. We must also think about the story when it comes to human rights and what it has been scattered throughout Europe and especially in Europe. This year, 75 years from the end of the Holocaust, compared to January 27, 1945, when Soviet armies liberated prisoners in Auschwitz-Birkenau Poland, a concentration camp. I think it should have been mentioned in the report that for the council it is a judicial proposal from the beginning. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, vice president of the U.S. Department of State Affairs, notes that we Iceland especially remember the Holocaust. I can't believe we're the only state of the 57 states of the European Security and Cooperation Organization, where the Holocaust is not remembered. The chief secretary - general of the United Nations, Anthrono Guterres, made an appeal on an international presentation date regarding the victims of the Holocaust that it is a dangerous error to claim that the Holocaust simply came about because of some sort of psychotic Nazi gang. On the contrary, the Holocaust would be the height of what is now known as Jewish hatred, the millenniums of Jewish hatred, and the fallacy. Jewish hatred is persistent and has taken on new forms in this new technology, and it is always the same old hatred. We must never sleep on guard. Lately, we have observed increased attacks on Jews and Jewish communities and Jewish hatreds both in Europe and in the United States, and this is a major concern. I say for my part, we'll only have to step up in this and remember the Holocaust, and I'd like to encourage the highest power. Secretary of State, and he insists that this proposal be approved by him and that we celebrate this international Memorial Day in Iceland. Besides, I just want to introduce a case that I think should be discussed internationally as a result of our being no longer part of the Human Rights Council. It is persecution against Christians. We are to be a voice heard on a global scale in these and my opinion. Let us not forget that fighting for human rights is also a fight for religious freedom. We Icelanders are a nation of 1,000 years of successful history of Christianity in this country, and unfortunately, few have protected the human rights of Christian groups in lands where such persecution has taken place. And that's just the way it is, Mr. President, that Christianity is the most violent religious group in the world. It is estimated that some 245 million Christians were persecuted for their faith, and more than 4,000 were killed last year because of their faith, and only in Northern Korea were some 70,000 victims of slavery because of their Christian faith. A year ago, in Easter, Sri Lanka, a major terrorist attack in the world since the attack on the Twin Towers of New York, was launched, and it focused on Christianity. There was an extreme Islamic group that murdered 250 church and hotel guests in the morning of Easter. After such terrible acts, sights have been directed only to this serious object, and according to UN figures hundreds of Christians each month fall because of numerous persecutions. The British have taken the initiative to speak against persecution against Christians, and they should be delighted to do so. The prime minister of Britain, Boris Johnson, made persecution against Christianity a subject for Christmas. Then, in the last year, the British Ministry of State published a very careful report on persecution against Christianity. The results of this report are striking, but it shows that there is evidence that persecution of Christians is worse than ever before. The British minister of foreign affairs has said that he will use the influence of Britain on an international scale to protect Christians who are under attack for their faith. I'd like to encourage the highest. Secretary of State to take over this group of litigation. We are a small nation on a global scale, but we can have a powerful voice, and we can see ourselves, including. has said so by the secretary - general of the United Nations. Therefore, it is important for me to make good use of this opportunity to continue on this course that we have prepared for our session in the Human Rights Council in a positive way, i.e. To criticize what few have, unfortunately, wanted to accept, I especially mention Christianity. I hope the Secretary of State and the government do this their own way, and we can be proud of that lawsuit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u87	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator for a good and extensive speech. He chose to highlight an important group of issues that are human rights. I agree with what. Senator, I think it's a good idea that we remember the Holocaust. We've taken it up, and we've called attention to the increase in Jewish hatred and, of course, is that when people think of the Holocaust, it's such an act and such cruelty, and it won't make no effort to go on a tour of a concentration camp for many reasons without my going to trace it here. The same can be said of them. A senator refers to Christians, w. A senator did well. We have been considering this in the Ministry, for this is something we should look at too, and we should, of course, be quick to speak of when persecution against Christians, such as others who are persecuted because of their faith or attitude of life. Hv. A senator encouraged us, as I understood why. A senator, and she's only received very well. As I mentioned, we've been considering this for special reasons. A senator referred to him. I like to be encouraged like this from the council and from what happened. A senator, and I want to thank him for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u88	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for my good response to this encouragement so that we may make our voice internationally heard to groups that, as I say, unfortunately not many have taken up the glove for, i.e. Gay people. Speaking for homosexual rights is a difficult group when it comes to international cooperation, as mentioned in the report. We know of the natural nature of the fact that communities and religious groups view these things in very different ways, and the death penalty in some countries, such as Iran. I just thank you for the courage shown by foreign service and ministers by criticizing it within the Council of Human Rights. We're supposed to follow through on this, and that's my part of the discussion. This is a regular report and many things you would have liked to establish, but time is short, and that made it important for me to stress this in view of the fact that we are no longer on this advice, but we have obtained valuable experience and have shown how much we can be. It takes courage to speak for the human rights of women in the Middle East, like Saudi Arabia, and I encourage ministers to do so even more. There are a number of strange things in these Middle Eastern communities, where Islam is predominant when it comes to women. I specifically mention young girls who need to think about, for example. Get pregnant outside of marriage, they are practically outcasted in society for the rest of their lives. This is a thing that few people may talk about, but there's a lot of work to do and I'll give you back the highest. Minister to impress on these materials. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u89	Without going to extend it very much, I'll agree again. Senator. But just so they say, even though we no longer have a session in the Human Rights Council, we can still address it and share in its work, as we have done. I was the first foreign minister to do that. As it has been attributed, it was in a way that helped when the Americans went out, people looked to us. So we'll continue to shout in it. But it's not just there, because of what. A senator referred to other factors, we have developed human rights policy. It is the passage in our developing cooperation projects to stress the human rights issues, including for reasons that were of short duration. A senator, despite having difficulty, mentioned, said: "I am sorry. A senator has been comprehensive and good, but the situation of human rights is such that it was not exhaustive, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u90	Mr. President. There may be little more to this than the fact that we have the responsibility of appointing highly qualified personnel in the Ministry of State who have specialised themselves in certain areas. Of course, we should use the knowledge we have gained in the Human Rights Council. It's very important. Then I think about that. Twelve years in that we might have an opportunity to enter the United Nations Security Council. I believe that we should follow through and seek a seat in that important advice. We have every opportunity to do so, and we have experience in volunteering, and we can use that experience. There's a lot of opportunity for us to take this important advice, so I put it this way here, it's something we should be headed for. Time is fast, and this requires much preparation, and it can give us a voice to speak to the matters we have spoken about in the Human Rights Council and certainly does not help. Then the natural security scheme, as we know, is to try to promote peace in the world, where we have a lot of work to do, and there we have great opportunities for Iceland. We are a nation without arms. We are a nation without weapons. There's something important that matters when it comes to peace and peace seeking between countries, etc., this trust. We only see it in the Middle East, both Israel and Palestine, arguing there. There they do not trust the European Union, the Israelites do not trust the European Union, Palestinians do not trust Americans, etc. This is something of great importance to have trust, so we have full business in the security board to my judgment, and there are many things to take. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm saying it's good for now and thank you for a great discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u91	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that there's something in the speech class here. But I want to thank like others for this report. This is a detailed review of the main developments at the Ministry and Ministers in the past year and since the recent report. It has to be acknowledged that this year, 2020, began with a number of noises for the foreign service as well as for everyone else, a number of projects added, or at least changed when this pandemic, apart from all the other activities being carried out daily. The foreign service is of utmost importance, and I think it is one of those important tasks that too few people realize what is important. People tend to look at the financial resources given on these projects, I come to a little more closely after, not quite aware that, I mean, staff of the service to perform miracles every day in various ways, considering our small service. These groups, who have the responsibility to care for our interests, are powerful, and they also make sure that we fulfill our responsibilities when it comes to international cooperation and commitment under the watchful eye and the administration and direction of the minister and the government at any given time. It is very important that Icelanders like others, but perhaps not least from Iceland, follow along and observe the developments that take place on a global scale at any given time, have an opinion, have a voice, and suggest adjustments or suggestions, but can above all follow along and follow the trend with the goal of taking care of our interests in a changing world. For example, I have previously made it clear from this discourse that it is important to promote foreign service and make it more effective in caring for the work being done there. As I told you earlier, it is almost a miracle how all of this takes place through this small service, but it is well designed. We're a small nation. We're an island state in the middle of the Atlantic. We are subject to international, international, and international agreements. We'll see that when it comes to it, I'm going to allow myself to say a little bit of a travel failure, for example, that there are other jobs that have to carry out the community, a fishing road. For Iceland, it is important that all international treaties are well cared for. Perhaps the most important thing is that international law is clear, respected. Of course, we have laws and regulations to follow and have done so. For us, it is vital that we continue to cooperate fully with international institutions whether it is NATO, ASE, or anything else. There we need to give attention to the basics of these institutions that we are involved in. As a result, there is a measure of concern that within some of these institutions, individual states may have adopted a measure of compromise with the foundations or principles of the covenant under which we write, if we look at democracy, human rights, and security. It is also of concern that when such conditions happen, as they are now regarding the Covid virus, and is not new that something like this will happen, some politicians, some states, some of the presidents, take advantage of things that are not good for their own benefit in order to gain power, etc. Of course, we will have to criticize the institutions where we have a voice. This time is not long that you have to discuss this great report, but I'm going now, after this brief introduction, to hold down at several places in it. It would be most desirable to have more time for this, a respectable president. But let me first mention that on page 6. 33 are referred to as the production of a new contract under the United Nations Sea Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity in the ocean. This is of utmost importance to us Icelanders, for it is a contract covering and attracting to one of our basic working roads and the basics of our economy, i.e. That we can protect and use the sea as best we can and in the best way we know, in a sustainable and sensible way. This has been during the course of the attack on an organization or some form of national institutions that want more and more to control natural resources. I think we should be very careful to participate in such activities when we have at least the experience. It is now that we are doing very well, so others can learn from us. Then I want to run to it. 40, which refers to the Council of Europe and that a fixed committee should finally be reassigned in Strasbourg, there are local people. I wondered if it's only while we're premeditated in the council we're taking over 2022, and they're getting ready. I think it's very important that we stay with a regular presence after our prehumanity ends. On page 18. 43 are spoken of as the oceans and the earth, and it is very important that Iceland's contribution to climate, including Because we bring in knowledge, technology, we offer our great scientists and people who have been successful in technical solutions, their companies, to look for solutions to the climate problems. It's easy to keep rules. We're supposed to take the hard way and point out the solutions, bring them into this. That's what we've been doing over the years, as we're supposed to move on in more places. Sea - to - sea issues and ground - base cases are discussed on page 20. 45. This is an enormously important group of lawsuits, and especially if we are looking for a longer time, we need to keep our eyes open. To the international business community. Of course, it is important for a nation whose survival depends on foreign trade. As has been done for the past few years, it has to continue to stand up, stand guard, and promote business interests. Of course, when it comes to security and defense, we need to follow the trends that take place and pay close attention. We've got to do something. We've got to do it. We need to strengthen our cooperation when it comes to our leading allies in defense and security. We should not be afraid to discuss the necessary structure or to increase cooperation in any way. I'd like to mention the European Security and Cooperation Agency, OSE, where I have a seat on the Senate Committee. There are some challenges that may be reflected by the large stage of the conference, the Senate meetings, and the people who are, what is to say, such frozen problems that reflect in there. Only on developing cooperation, which takes about 46% of expenses to this area, an important case, of course. We should continue to offer Icelandic knowledge and skills, thereby increasing cooperation if possible. It has been solved in some way the existence problem that was headed for the United Nations University, which I think is a good solution. I had doubts at the outset, so I admit it now, but there I think people have found their way and are happy to see it. This can be a foundation and has been our contribution in many ways. Here's a cross-border subject, I'm not stopping it right now, I'll have to do it later, but on page 24. 107 are covered with foreign funds. There's 1.8% of budget A's 1.5 billion foreign cases, 76% of which are subject to development cooperation and international institutions, or 8.5 billion. These are not large numbers in the context of the projects, with the financial resources of the state and with all the enormous interests involved. [[The president calls.]] - That was very quick notice of the foreign minister's report.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u92	For that reason. This is so that all speakers receive 10 minutes of public talk. The president wants to point out that a second talk can be recorded for 5 minutes. This is because spokesmen were not negotiated in advance, so there is no special speech period, which is exactly 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, and as he himself mentioned, he considered a very large matter in a very short period of time because he had a short talk period, which he made on many good points. One thing like that. The senator referred to and spoke first, and should be obvious but not, is that the international law should be clear and to be followed. I think it's gonna be a little bit of a test right now as a result of the Covid epidemic as it turns out, and it's going to be all our interests right now, as I know it. A senator knows very well and has always been attached to the application of international law. This, of course, is the benefit of all, but especially of smaller nations. Hv. A senator was here referring to a very important matter that we discuss very little, but we have an eye and a focus on it, and it's the sea rights and the weekend. It is an enormous interest in the nation of Iceland, and we are totally aware of it, and it is our priority to work on it. With the NTSB it's bound to be a decision by someone else, I suppose, but the ones here, because it's assumed that it's going to be 2022 Pharisees, you don't know how it's going to develop. But like a dog. A senator knows that there has not been an office there, but when we take the lead, we need the nature of the matter in addition to our presence. I wanted to mention it as well. A senator, who is underappreciated but extremely important, came in particularly, but it is how important the aquifers can play a major role in the battle in the climate. Actually, that's how it would be if it were only in the process of warming up a house with a tarmac where it can be done, I think we'd solve the climate problem. The way we took off was not out of the climate at the time, but those who preceded us showed a great deal of initiative and courage and heat - repaired land. This technology can be used elsewhere, and it's preconceived everywhere, and whether it's in the development team or in the EFTA or EEA building fund or anywhere else, we stress it. But better, if it's enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u94	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the Minister for coming up against us. You wonder about this wide variety of projects, and it is in many places where you need to grow or take better care of your interests. The news story I mentioned in my speech and the highest. The minister came in is one part of it. Of course, all environmental issues and climate issues are involved. We've seen analysis and we've been wondering what happens if certain things happen in the ocean, if certain things happen in the ocean, if they're more acidic, warmer, etc., and therefore we need to take part in all the activities that we can resist. I'd also like to mention in terms of international institutions where we're involved, I just want to have said it here, that with the people who are caring for our interests, whether in Strasbourg, from Paris I think it's today, in Vienna or in New York or anywhere, with this small service, we can scan the main and most important. Of course, we could do better, and everyone knows that. At the same time, we need of course, and I know that the highest. A minister wants to do so, trying to set priorities for the small money we have on these projects. Indeed, it is important that we be loyal, spending powder and money in it, doing business to and from the land. The initial challenges, e.g. The current epidemic of baltrexone and the epidemic has naturally been severe. But with varied and vigorous service, we can handle all of this, of course. It is exciting, however, to contemplate how predictions will develop in the long run. What will be the future after this epidemic? I think he's making quite a difference in the world picture, and he's also changing the longer-term foreign service, at least a reevaluation of the projects may be needed on the basis of this epidemic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u95	Hv. At the end of this discussion, a senator reviewed the changes that will result from the epidemic, and of course there have been dramatic changes in this brief period of time. We've set up a special team to work very fast to use these means of the epidemic, obviously e.g. ... withexploitation. It's something that's always been possible, but now it's done. We've called for this in foreign service, but it's been a little harder on the other side to get people to use that technology. Now this happens, and I've had many more meetings and meetings, even though I haven't been able to go anywhere, using telecommunications, and I hope it's come to be. But I'm afraid, unless something changes, there will be many more challenges. I'm worried that we're going to have to take a interests watch that we've been pretty free of until now. Then I am, for example. to refer to it when the kingdoms of the world and all the kingdoms that we compare with us are such as. To put on government grants and all hands for action. I hope these things stop very fast, but I'm sorry it will be. Likewise, we are now working along with many others in the government, trying to open border in a reasonable way, necessary to achieve economic resistance. It's easy to close, but it can become difficult to open, and it can take a long time. It's not just people's quests, it's about things that we feel are completely self-denied now and we have contracts, including. The EEA deal, and have been able to comply. We are seeing that there have been some steps that have been taken away in the European Union in this situation. That may be, and it is more likely than the other, that we need to focus particularly on the interests that we have not had to do for some long time. Why do we need to do so? Because we need to increase our value here, we have to sell goods and services if we are to return to the place we want to be in an economic situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u96	A respectable president. I thank the Second Secretary for an answer. This raises questions as to whether it is not important, and it may well be that this work is started at the Ministry, and people are considering the steps we need to take, but they are trying to open up the crowd. What does it mean to look forward to when the Icelanders are spreading all over the world? What has changed in the countries where Iceland is most concerned? Do we have to prepare in some other way? Do we need to stay at home in a different way, have different types of activity in embassys and districts, need to increase them, not just because of people, but also because of business dealings to protect our interests? What do we learn from all of this? It seems that the first reaction of most people was to look inside, how they defend their homework, and we Icelanders need to, of course, to do the same. We have seen to it that we are content with as many people as possible. Then, of course, we need to create some sort of organization, along with our major cooperation nations. If this is the case, then certain things need to be rotten, they need to be anointed. It is the foreign service that will have to play a key role in establishing some kind of plan, discussing plans on how we keep transport routes open, and how we keep it going so that things don't all go away completely. It's been ten years since the collapse. Now this epidemic, and it's going to happen again. It's going to come back like this now, maybe not like this, but they're going to come, they're going to come regularly, so we need to learn what we can learn from these awful things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u97	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State and staff for each year's foreign and international reporting presented here at the council. First, I want to thank the Ministry's staff for their tireless work worldwide on the 80th anniversary of the Icelandic foreign service. Thank you very much for the civil service staff for their valuable work these past few weeks to help tens of thousands of people get home in a pandemic season, and all of us must know how to thank these excellent employees for that, as many have mentioned in this discussion today. The nature of the case is a pandemic of Covid-19 majors in the report and the challenges faced in international cooperation and international cooperation with it. If there is ever a need and need for international and international cooperation, the Covid global epidemic has shown us thoroughly that it is the only solution to such threats as those we've been facing in the past few weeks. The foreign secretary's report on foreign and international affairs is one of the most important documents in every government in the present Parliament when it comes to policy-employing foreign policy and emphasis. Perhaps I would have liked to have made a statement about our policy and priorities in international affairs rather than a report of some kind that covers the work of the past year. Although the report is well set up and available and good to find information, perhaps I would have wanted to see more emphasis there with clearer policy measures. A government contract says that Iceland's foreign policy is based on clear guidelines on democracy, human rights, equality, sustainable development and peaceful solutions, which are noble and beautiful goals, but may not be very tangible. So a clear, clear course is needed. This may be the best thing to see when it comes to matters of human rights that have actually fallen into our arms, such as our seat in the United Nations Human Rights Council, which actually came to us when the United States withdrew. However, as the report says, at the end of the last 18 months, our seat in the United Nations Human Rights Council was completed, the first as an elected representative. This position in this precious scheme marked an incredible water divorce for Iceland and Iceland, one of the most important roles Iceland has ever played in international affairs. I am very proud of our conduct in the council of this time. We had a small prep period before the session, and it's amazing to see how much observation was made in Iceland's council since 2017, and then Iceland took the initiative and didn't have a hand in it. Our compromise and leadership on the rights position in Saudi Arabia were incredibly important, as well as criticism of Iceland's right to human rights status in the Philippines. This presentation is crucial to us not only to strengthen our confidence as small international nations but also to us here as members of the Parliament that our language in our little conference is important at a international level. This is important, and it can make a difference, not just for us, but for the people in question who face human rights violations and persecutions. The Philippines journalists benefited from our fighting as well as women and political prisoners in Saudi Arabia. Our emphasis on the status of the sexes, the equality and the human rights of women and the rights of queer people at the UN Human Rights Council was high, and I am proud of them. This was an unexpected test, but we did well, and it shows just how small a nation can accomplish much internationally. A fine example is that a small nation can be an example for larger nations. The same was also seen when Iceland first recognized Palestine's Western world as an independent and sovereign state in 2012, which I am extremely proud of. I encourage, of course, the highest. Minister of state to follow that recognition in action, as I did a year ago. A government made up of the left movement ◯ A green supply cannot be replaced when it comes to the affairs of Palestine. But we also need to keep our cards in check and to use this precious experience in the session of the Human Rights Council, following and following it, and I sincerely hope that there is a progressive work to do. We also need to keep building knowledge, experience, and relationships to get the most out of this session. We also need to remember that Iceland also resides in other very important European human rights institutions, such as the European Council. This year we are happy that 70 years since Iceland became a member of the European Council, which was established in 1949 of ten Western European countries and the European government decided to become a member of the Union the following year. That was the progressive decision made by the government of the time that has been proved and proved thoroughly. Throughout the United States, the European Convention of Human Rights is one of the greatest legal provisions in Iceland. For example, the treaty has had a great and good effect on the legal state of this country, it has had a powerful impact on the rights of Iceland's Constitution, as the Supreme Court states. The role of the European Parliament is to protect the core integrity of Member States in terms of human rights, democracy and legal states, and with the aim being used, including the Court's work. The format and agreement of a binding international agreement. The European Court of Human Rights is the best known and established by the European Court of Human Rights. The Court will treat counts from Member States, individuals and groups due to alleged violations of the rights of the European Convention and its judgments are binding on national rights for the State. The European Court of Human Rights, Strasbourg, when he was elected by an Icelander, Róbert Spanó, a lawyer and vice president of the Court, received much joy from the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. It is a tremendous privilege, not just for Róbert, but for us Icelanders, to have the president of this vastly important court and human rights agency. I miss not having seen any official congratulations on the terms of the election, from the highest level. Secretary of State or any other adviser, since the motion of the court was supported and submitted by the Icelandic government seven years ago. It is also a joy to see that there is an increased emphasis on development through the Ministry's organizational change in the work, reflecting an increased emphasis on development cooperation, and the change in name is an important factor there. It has rarely been as important as it is now to give in developing cooperation as a clear response to the Covid epidemic and to strengthen the countries that are harder to deal with a serious epidemic like Covid is and shoulder the international responsibility it holds. We have promoted the international work of equality, and some say that it is almost surprising that Iceland's policy is always upholding international equality views. However, there is also evidence that we have not gone very far or have been particularly radical in this regard. Like Sweden in its feministic foreign policy, we have not given in to the idea of changing our sensory system. I also said that in a talk a year ago, and doing it again, the Icelanders are supposed to carry out feminist foreign policy, make it more specific, make our approach on that matter, and look to Sweden that have held out a feminist foreign policy since 2015. We have very good experience from the development team when it comes to the complete equality of the sexes, and we can sharpen our emphasis even more, and I'm impressed. Secretary of state for that. We're running out of time, but we've got things burning on us. Peaceful solutions are one of the main guidelines for Iceland's foreign policy, and this rhymes very well with the left movement's focus of a green supply. The presence of foreign troops has increased over the years, as has been the increase in military funds. As soon as a response to Covid came up, a dramatic call from the South was made for NATO to build up in Helga. I just have to protest to the highest level. A minister earlier said that there could be exciting investment opportunities. There, there is a natural political decision to give and controversy discussion over the development of even more military workers, let alone basic human workings, such as rejections and ports. I am aware of the situation that exists, but I encourage Southnes to demonstrate their openness, originality, and vision when it comes to the structure of economic issues and to respond to the situation in which Covid is responsible, as well as in many parts of the country. Finally, the highest. Mr President, because my time is running out, I'd like to mention that the most powerful tool to promote peace is to reduce inequities. The emphasis on foreign affairs must, in my opinion, be given unpublished testimony to contribute to the lessening of the problem. And by the end, I would also like to remind you of a proposal for a resolution of a green foreign policy. I mentioned earlier, feminian foreign policy, but green foreign policy at the time we are living is also a key factor in dealing with the global disaster we face, the climate. That's where the highest is. Secretary of State and his Ministry will take a firm stop, take more definitive action, and recommend policy-makers when it comes to the disaster of climate change. We can take initiative there internationally, even as we have done in so many other matters. [[The president calls.]] We can also show confidence and be straight behind with all our experience when it comes to promoting action against climate change and environmental protection, and we are to take decisive action. [[The president calls.]] - Mr. President. I'll finish my case right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator will do a great job for an excellent speech. It is naturally known that we are not in the same category, so we do not need to agree on all things. But I appreciate the warm words for the foreign services and the staff. I just agree with what. A senator when she speaks about human rights matters other than that I do not agree that this has fallen into our arms. We put an extra emphasis on this when I spoke to the Council of Human Rights, but I am the first U.S. Foreign Minister to do so, and we found it when we sought it that we were in charge that it wasn't for anything. That was because we had walked the way we were, and people wanted it to be followed. We have, and we will continue. Hv. A senator points to the European Council and all the rights it says we should, of course, use and use our experience from there. But we're also supposed to do this during the development process, and that's what we've decided to do. It was a three - man team with excellent emphasis in a report and has considered much of what we can learn from other countries we compare with, one of which is what we are focusing on. When it comes to equality and the environment, people take it only as a matter of course to our foreign policy, no matter where it is, whether in defenses or elsewhere, that we have equal issues at the tip. There's a demand for it. If we look, for example. Here on page 16. 39 of the world's gender equality and 10 of the top nations, Iceland is No. 1, Norway No. 2, Finland No. 3 and Sweden No. 4. I can go over the environment later, but, of course, we do very good by setting a good example, and fortunately, we do so in this regard. [[The president calls.]] But this is one thing that we stress all over our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u99	Mr. President. I apologize if my words may have misjudged so that I have been minimizing our residence and our work in the field of human rights for the past few years, not at all. What I may have meant was that our seating in the UN Human Rights Council may have fallen into our arms, so we could not prepare enough, but thus we said that we were doing a tremendously good job, according to the short period of time we had prepared for a seat in the council. Not all countries would simply have been able to handle the short preparatory time that we were given to this important seat. But we showed that, proving that we were assigned and all the responsibilities that this session had. I may also have to explain what I was talking about when I was talking about equality. It is my desire that when it comes to international equality, we start thinking again how we can pursue a clearer course because the emphasis on equality has drawn much attention to the international bison. This is noticed, and we are looked forward to in international affairs, and Iceland is generally referred to as a model for everything when it comes to equality. It also gives us the opportunity to develop and thrive when it comes to it and bring more radical and bold solutions to these matters. Just the climate issue. I would also like to point to Michelle Bachelet, the secretary - general of the United Nations, who has declared that climate change has become a major threat to human rights in the world. It has pointed out that during the past 60 years, some 40% of the civil wars worldwide are due to the decline in the environment and the impact of climate change. When we're going to take a firm foot in human rights and take advantage of the experiences we've really had, very fast, very good experience, then we'll have to look to climate change and make a clearer international policy when it comes to climate. A proposal for that policy can be seen in a synopsis proposal for a green foreign policy that I don't know at the highest level. A minister has read and encouraged him to study the synopsis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u100	I'm not going to add anything to the equality issues, I don't think we're going to be far apart. A senator, if anything, when we talk about it. However, I wanted to draw attention to the climate and the environment, which are on page. Forty-two-three-five in the report. I also believe we have responsibilities on certain matters. If I recall, there are 70% of the world's oceans, but there are not very many people who are thinking about it, at least not international. We have seen that it is our responsibility to be in charge whenever it comes to the affairs of the sea. In the prehumanity of the North Pole, which has been successful, and why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson did well with that, stress on the oceans, climate issues and renewable energy and people and communities in the north, just as one example. Of course, this is true everywhere. When it comes to developing cohesion, it is no coincidence that the GRO schools include Equality school as well as a geological school. In fact, when it comes to fishing, we also have environmental messages that we share with others. You can have all the opinions about fishing costs and everything between the sky and the earth, but there's a very small debate if in Iceland you think that the way we've been pursuing sustainable fishing, which has been recognized everywhere we want, I think I can claim, is the way we want to go. Sadly, for example, she has not left. Of course, the climate has to do with global issues and the use of renewable energy in a natural impenetrable way. One thing is what men should call it, but in the course of action, in every place we stress equality, as well as the green things, as it were. [[The president calls.]] The candidates will be pleased to hear this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u101	I declare my pleasure with this list the highest. The minister of his assignment, and I don't think he even managed to clean it up because this section on climate issues on page 6. The cooperation of the State Department and the Ministry of Presidency on climate issues that have been increased is exactly 42. The contribution of Iceland to the green climate fund, Green Cimate Fund, has been increased now for the years to come, as well, as at the highest level. Secretary has also planned to protect 276 million. K. to develop countries for Covid-19 divided down as shown in the report. That's a good, very good reaction. Then I'd like to add a word to the highest. So, then, a minister on page 18. 103◯105 is also a discussion of so-called cross-regulated developments that discuss environmental and climate issues, equality and human rights, and the effects of Covid on women's status, including their status in the front line of health care. That's good. This is a clear example of sharp and clear actions that are reacting to the work we are dealing with at a international level today. I'm actually encouraging the highest. Ministers to get even closer to the earth in this, that Iceland is encouraged when it comes to green business, environment, and climate on an international level, as well as to make our equality clearer and sharper, and perhaps more regular, so as to keep our leadership internationally accurate when it comes to equality and stressing the equality of the sexes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u102	A respectable president. We're dealing with a report at the highest level. Foreign and development secretary on foreign and international matters. There's been a lot of talk here about, like... Human rights and the Convention of Human Rights. I have often wondered about the rights of the European Convention and the Court of Human Rights, a court full of affairs, how to choose matters that get priority in the inside. There are some matters I can fully agree on and others don't, but I'm especially surprised at the matters that can't come before that court. It tells me that the court is not in very good shape, as the situation is today, and it needs to be settled. I often feel like flying when we talk about human rights and how they're good abroad, but we often forget that we're supposed to start at home, start out in our own garden, set a good example for other countries, and have human rights and equality, and all of that in good business at home. I'm sure that would be well observed if we did, but unfortunately, in many cases we didn't do well enough, and especially, I would say, in the affairs of the disabled. The United Nations Convention on Pathologists has been a hot potato for government after government, and it is, in effect, incomprehensible and shameful that we have not long since concluded that the human rights of disabled people are based on exactly the same foundation that everyone else is. We may see the straw in the eyes of others better than the rafter in our own eye. One of the things I'm also wondering about as far as I can tell. Secretary of state earlier is the feeling I felt on the EEA case. I got the feeling that we had a big box of 100 pieces. Then we're going to pick one of 12, 14, 15 good pieces. It's made of dark and good chocolate, but it has filling inside it, which may not taste good, as in the case of the energy package and other cases. I don't see that we're getting all the good things and leaving the bad things behind. I have to say just the way it is just now that day, and it wasn't the first time, I got kind of a chill when I started reading the EEA song. It was like Laddi's song about Rogers Rogers, and he stopped counting. I was trying to count the EU, the EEA and this was in other words, EU regulations or laws. How in the world are we supposed to see the rules for the law or the rules for the law? It's so gigantistically amazing. I've often thought that it must be possible to simplify it. It must be possible to have it in English instead of looking like I don't know what. There is another aspect of foreign cooperation. It is one of the major issues in the sea, the climate, the climate, the plastic that is alive to kill. We really need to take action there, and fortunately, we are now waking up and starting to do something about these matters. The question, though, is, Is it enough because we still see nations taking their plastic plate and other trash and sending it to less developed countries where it accumulates and actually becomes a jungle? You can see whole rivers in Asia filled with plastic waste, especially from European countries. There we are moving Europe's problems to the underdeveloped countries drowning in this. One thing we should have discussed is the Covid-19 virus and why it has come down. The newest theories are that it's here because we're destroying forests. As a result, we are destroying vegetation, thus creating ideal conditions for such viruses. If this is true, the Covid-19 virus is the first of many, and then, as I've come before, we need to start worrying more about how we're going to fight the virus than about nuclear weapons and other things because it's definitely a different thing. As it is today, I believe that our fear of another viral epidemic is greater than our fear of anything else. The question is, What will the North and the rest of the world do about it? Now it seems that it is the competition to find the source of the virus, where and why it was created, to find out what the epidemic is doing, and to blame one another instead of focusing on how we're going to stop the epidemic and prevent the next one from leaving. There will be a lot of work to be done, and I hope that we will find out something about it. Another way in which we have to work well with Britain is by the way the British get off the European spider web. We know that the European Union has not gone through without a struggle, which illustrates the horrors of the European Union. We must realize that this is a ridiculous alliance in many respects. If we look at Greece in the east, Spain in the west, and Finland in the north, then the heavens and sea are between these nations. It is quite remarkable that the alliance is still holding. I got the feeling in the Covid epidemic that everything in there is gonna blow. If more nations are going to try to get out of this awful place, I hope they don't get in the same trouble as the British did. I also pointed out, and it was made clear in reply that we saw how Brussels and the European Union reacted and tried to shut down the protective equipment for health care and other things. That's where we saved the EEA deal, says the highest. The minister of foreign countries, and it is, of course, great if he worked in this case, but it tells us, however, that we need to keep our toes and pay close attention to what the European Union is doing and how it is ready to respond if there is any problem. It also tells us a lot about what could happen when the next epidemic strikes, if there's someone we really hope not to happen, not to come Covid-20 or Covid-21 or something worse, and then we have to be prepared how the world reacts. Hence, we need to focus on being self - sustainable in all areas, so we do not have to rely blindly on others but can rely on ourselves. I think it's the next and best step we can take.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. He rolls up a few things, and I might want to mention a few. The European Court of Human Rights does not agree with this party, but the Human Rights Council certainly does. A senator rightly points out that while we have not made our home, there is no need to interfere with others. However, it does appear on page 18. 36 of the report, is Iceland's position on human rights, so I think we can be proud of where we are compared to others when it comes to equality, peace, homosexual and child affairs, that's where we are. So do democracy, no. 2. Then there are other factors without me going through it all. Of course, we should keep our eyes open, for there is no point in being critical of others if we are not self - righteous. For the EEA, I said earlier that I thought we had taken the best pieces and left the others, so general, and I don't think that the bad taste that many thought was about the third energy package was not there, at least not yet, and I don't expect it to be. But there are some things I know. A senator is interested in and has fought for, which has come through the EEA, e.g. for combating employment discrimination in the labour market. When I was starting politics, they said we took it from Denmark because of the fact that we're not picking up the bike. Many of the things we may feel are probably from other sources, from special expertise, or from secular work, in various matters, including the following: from the EEA. I'm not going to talk about the EU without what. A senator in particular wants me to do so, but he's gonna hit it on the head, which is the essence of a matter that none of us are interested in but ourselves. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u104	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and can agree with him in many areas. One thing may not be discussed much, but it is the cooperation we have with the North countries. I'll bet you I admit my first impression of the Northern Council wasn't good. It was just, I think, a mistake in the beginning. But after I began to study more fully the Northern Councils and the Northern states as a whole, there's a lot we can learn there, a lot. Unfortunately, Covid stopped us, but we were on our way to get one of the three or four committees of the Northern Council back here in the summer. I'm sorry, it's gone. It belonged here, for example. getting a welfare committee to study equality here, showing that they were looking into it, as well as mental health issues. Yes, we do well in various areas, but we can always do better, and we are also required to do better, and I want to reiterate that we should clean up our own garden because we can do so well, we are so few, and we can be so easily an example, for example. Equalities. But for some reason, we're still fighting, I mention, for example. The women's work and women in a strike that is fighting for some minimum price because there is some political stubbornness between rural society, which is quite remarkable because it is a small amount of money in its entirety. Therefore, one often does not understand with equality, that we cannot at least find out that those who are, for example, are. in the lowest and worst of the wage is equal and decent and we don't have to figure out what it takes to live and what's a decent salary in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u105	A respectable president. I'm gonna try to stay the way I can with foreign affairs. Hv. A member of the United States made up of the European Parliament, and the Covid epidemic is a major international team effort and I think it is safe to say that the northern community activities are excellent. I appreciate it when we are here commending the staff of foreign service, especially civil service, and the North countries working together as one man to come home to the northern population. When flights were being planned, it didn't matter which northern population was involved, but the northern population was able to enter that flight. It was important for all, but especially for the smallest nation in this five countries, and that is us. That, of course, is an example. I don't want to hurt any feelings, so I'm not going to go over something that hasn't worked so well yet, but there's tremendous support in Iceland and all the other northern countries in cooperation. There we have used and will continue to do so, and that should not be underestimated. But I think it's possible to do better, and actually I think it's always that when men are started, no matter what it is, and think they're ready to get some sort of perfection, the way is just down. We should always be modest when declaring our joy, whether there is a certain international cooperation or something inside the country, or the ball will take its eyes off.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I know there are good things. We must not forget these trips that had gone to China to get all kinds of data from the Covid virus, it was great. I think in these areas we can have a good partnership with the North countries, but that is, as I say, not as good with the European Union because they were ready to close protective clothing. So perhaps we should focus more on the North countries and join them so that the North countries will become self-sustained to the point that they have enough supplies, if anything like this happens. There is one thing in this that we often forget to talk about, and that's the medication. Now, it seems that a large proportion of drugs have originated from China, and I often ask myself what it will be like if something breaks between them: "Where are we in the pharmaceutical business? I think the North countries can do that, but if there's only a production in Asia or alone in China, we're in trouble if something's wrong and I've often wondered what it's like. We just need to look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u107	V.E.G. President. I understand that there has been some mistake regarding the speech period during this report, so I ask, if I think it's necessary, to be recorded again in a talk afterwards, but we'll see how I'm going to review the material. I'd also like to support the proposal that in the future there will be a double session for the minister's report, I don't think it will be any less effective, or to have this discussion more often over the year when we plan a new council for the council. At least this is way too quick a time. But in spite of such a sweet, shameful speech at the outset, I want to thank you very much. Minister and his staff for a very thorough and extensive regular report. There are many factors to take into account, but this report is different from the usual reports in which the world now deals with an epidemic caused by Covid, which has not been noticed by anyone. According to one estimate, the epidemic has placed communities all over the world. Much of the loss of transportation and the loss of employment has resulted in serious unemployment worldwide. Although we are not yet fully aware of the consequences of this epidemic, we can assume that its economic consequences will be very negative worldwide. It is too early, however, to predict the rest, but what we can discuss is to examine the response to Covid and what we can learn from them and how we can use this experience to build up for the future in close cooperation with neighboring countries and other hostile nations, and especially with international institutions, as many have mentioned today. Mr. President. According to the secretary's report, chaos was maintained in international cooperation when the virus came out of Asia and especially within Schengen. A border quickly closed, so to speak, and also between the northern countries without any conversation or consultation, at least in some cases. After considering, things could have been done in a different way and I don't doubt that any man will learn from this experience. In all the panic and uncertainty, Iceland's foreign - state service was being watched all over the world. I thought I was original when I was writing this talk, but thankfully everyone came into this scene and commended the staff of the foreign service that accomplished achievements, let me say, sat by the phone and computer day and night, and served the Icelanders around the world. Even though we are few, Icelanders, a small nation, we somehow manage to stay everywhere during play and work, and the test of foreign service was quite serious. I'd like to thank her again, and she's worthy of the honor and her staff for her contribution. Mr. President. I must also come here because I have been very happy to see the solidarity that the Norwegian states have shown at this time, even though I have already criticized only the border blocks, but many other tasks have been on the table, and especially what I mentioned before, cooperation with civil service, to bring the Norwegian citizens back to their homes, but also with their solidarity and emphasis on the need of protection of human rights and democracy, which are due to come to the time of the Korean virus. Also, the message that the Norwegian countries consider it important to support the poorest countries in cooperation with international institutions and humanitarian organizations. This is a very important thing, and in the secretary's report, this emphasis is on human rights, democracy, and cooperation with international institutions in many places. I may not be going to do detailed research on the subsequent development process, but it will be discussed on page 24. 87 and onwards. It contains a very good explanation of the development work that Iceland and I are involved in, both in cooperation with international institutions and in two-way cooperation. It can be seen and heard. A minister puts much emphasis on this tribe, and the government has been adding funds and in general stressing what is well. But back to no more cooperation. The Norwegian Ministers have found both formally and informally during the last few weeks, shared information, and discussed ways the countries might be able to react to Covid-19. I'm glad to see and hear the importance of Norwegian cooperation in times of trial. Clearly, it is not just in word but also on a table. It is very clear in many places in the report how we Norwegian nations have access to this complex task. A website on the Norwegian Minister and Council of the Northern Council - I might like to use this opportunity to advertise that page, Noden.org - can also be seen in some of the news reports, including reports there that the Norwegian Ministers want to ensure the integration of economic restoration and green exchanges in the light of Covid - these are opportunities - and that the Norwegian Ministers have decided that the states will be united for research and other targeted measures to help the region get out of the difficult conditions that Covid has brought on them and that the northern sectoral ministers are now preparing structure policy after the Korean crisis, to name just a few. It's all good. The Northern Council has not left behind to encourage ministers to work closely together, both during the Covid period and also after the epidemic. April 20th. Send a letter to all prime ministers of the Northern Country Council. In this letter, the President Committee referred to a policy on community security approved by a unanimousity at the Northern Council of the Council of the United States in October 2019 C.E. The Presidency Commission encourages governments to implement the proposals proposed in their policy, specifically suggesting that the states of Northern countries conform to measures to ensure supply of important drugs, e.g. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson came into it right here, and other medical equipment. In this letter, the President Committee highlights the need for an up-to-date safety analysis and a DG and suggests that an independent Norse DG is implemented. I think it is very important that these committees are rushed as soon as possible and that I would love to hear from the highest level. Minister of what vision he has regarding this policy of closer cooperation, which would be developed according to these principles as shown in the letter given by the Council of the Presidency of the Northern Country. It is the northern policy of becoming the world's most integrated region. We have a very close relationship, and trust exists between us, which is unique on a global scale. So it is important that governments work together to reduce the negative effects of the existing travel restrictions and to see if the results of future travel can be harmonized in ways that do not need to be taken up to the new border barriers. Mr. President. I also find it very important to arrive here in this discussion today that the Northern Council has met very regularly during the last few weeks despite the ban. The National Council's Office and Management Board of the European Parliament have built up a fine record of looking for solutions so that the work can continue almost uninterrupted in spite of changing meeting plans. We've used telecommunications with built - in interpretation options as well as written cases as possible. Of course, it was boring not to be able to hold the Northern Council in Helsinki at the end of March at the end of the day, but matters were still handled as much as possible, both at telecommunications and in writing, and in the delay that it was possible to delay until the fall. But we still plan to hold the North Council Fall Council at the end of October, Reykjavík, or until further notice. This experience has taught us that telecommunications are more than expected, especially in regard to international cooperation and interpretations. So I will emphasize it in my presidency of the Northern Council that the traditional meetings of the Council and the committees will be reduced. Thus, the work could be made even more efficient, saving substantial funds for travel costs and meetings as well as reducing carbon tracks, thereby reducing environmental impacts through travel. I see in the secretary's report that the Secretary of State and Defense of the Atlantic Community has been meeting for the first time with telecommunications. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I've certainly not finished my case and wanted to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u108	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of state, who also wants to call himself a development associate minister, for this report before the council and has been given long discussions here, I don't intend to say that it was long, long, and much, as they say. I'm not going to have long numbers on this, I'm going to have a comprehensive report, and I'm going to give an excellent overview of all the activities being carried out in the foreign service, and I'm presented in a clear and understandable way. It serves many purposes and benefits for both members of Congress and the public to be able to consult the report. True, the EEA's case is not addressed because it was released a specific report on them, but in other respects, it's an excellent summary. Iceland's foreign affairs are, as we can see from this report, many and a variety of ways, and, of course, most of them serve that one objective and should, of course, be the main goal of protecting Iceland's interests in foreign lands, but there are other projects that serve Iceland's interests in an indirect way, not as directly as possible. Of course, it gives me the development team that serves the interests of the world that we all contribute to that goal. On the other hand, I think of the matter at the top of these days and regarding foreign affairs very much, and that is the situation with the Covid virus that has raged in varying degrees between countries. It seems that most countries took similar measures to stop the spread of the virus, which hopefully is now in remission. In my opinion, the most serious measures are the restrictions that have been placed on people from abroad. We Icelanders and the Icelandic government have had the wisdom of not taking measures as hard as many countries around us, even though we are in the middle of this epidemic, to follow Schengen, the countries we have had in good cooperation with, and to close the outer border of Schengen. The international borders of Schngen from Iceland have been open, and it is good to emphasize the importance of the discussion here and abroad that they have been open. However, a week ago or so, unlike what had been proclaimed at the beginning of the epidemic, the advice was to apply for the treatment of those who come to Iceland. I have to say, I'm not comfortable with that decision. I don't think that's why I did it. There are no major travelers, unfortunately, not yet, and perhaps not a reason to take action for two weeks' sake, because I hope this will be a very short procedure. This, I think, is the case in foreign affairs today between countries, how to ease the limits set, how to view national boundaries to be open to tourists, and those who have legitimate means to travel to countries without their having to put themselves under such burdensome treatments for two weeks in each country. It has been reported that some of our ministers have discussed this with their colleagues at least. ... intheNinelands, and I give it to the highest. Minister of foreign affairs to impress them. I have personally had discussions with my colleagues in the North countries, the president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and there I recognize a positive attitude toward the cooperation of the Northern States in this case and the concern for many senators in the North countries to overcome these restrictions. They realize that there is no matter what specific measures they will take, whether in Iceland or in other lands, in order to save companies and the economy, human activities and livelihoods, such measures will take a dose if business is not available otherwise. Communication with other countries is, as the world has successfully evolved, fundamental in it. Of course, it is particularly important for an island such as Iceland, which has built its prosperity and improved the ideals of the past few decades just in increasing foreign relations. Therefore, I give high priority to the promotion of foreign services over the next few years, and I hope it will not be in the next few years that it needs to be done but at least For the next few weeks and miss, to make people abroad understand that it is necessary to open it and to learn how to live with the virus. In this regard, I would like to note that there have just been reports that the Baltic States have taken a measure of initiative within Europe in these areas by opening up a man - made journey between them. Their expectations are likely to expand it. It is interesting, though, that the Baltic States take this initiative that one would have thought would be reluctant to do, for example. Here in the North or in the old Europe. This is not specifically discussed in the report, but it is likely to have written something before this time, although it is clear that some of the circumstances have changed in this regard. A chapter of special interest came to my attention on page 20. 85 about online security that I think will be very discussed with the next year. I count at least It is very important to discuss how a structure of the so - called 5G system will be developed and adjusted around it in terms of security because the construction of 5G is not just a simple communication issue, but it is quite clear from international and various countries that this is a very secure matter. I expect the next report to be discussed in detail about 5G. I'd like to finally mention it, it may not be possible to review it in this report, but I think it must be inevitable for us Icelanders that in the next few years foreign affairs will be prioritised in the face of the economic degradation of the Covid virus. Of course, there are a lot of projects here, and I'm not going to do the highest. Minister of State to ask him here, if he is going to discuss it in his final speech, whether he can predict any possible priorities and privileges, especially in this report, which we may be least able to do without and what assignments we might set aside for some time. But it is inevitable that a person will look for ways to get along with the expenses of this group, such as anyone else. In that case, bad things may be bad, bad things are not all that bad, and in this level of virus, people have done a lot of telecommunications, and in foreign affairs it has been very important to be able to communicate with people in the world through telecommunications. I expect that arrangement to exist, and people take full advantage of it, and the government officials of the Ministry of State and the Council may travel a little less than they have so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. Like what? A senator already knows that Schengen and border security are not dependent on the State Department, but I have from day one, both on the North and on the Baltic States, that we think of being in charge of opening, at least when it comes to methodology. Similarly, I have assigned all the embassies to contact the states in particular where there has been the best way to have two - sided openings. Since this is in the subject realm of other ministers, the government as a whole has been considering what we can do ourselves and how best to conduct these matters. There's a reason why it doesn't matter. It's just like that. A senator pointed to what actions will be performed in the country; as long as the economy does not open, we will not succeed. The same is true of Internet security, and in the Council of Control, it is a matter of transportation. But it does not change that our view is clear, and everyone is conscious that we should take it very seriously and follow the example of other countries with whom we best cooperate. All the countries we compare with have taken over the Internet security issues and, in particular, 5G cases. In terms of the priorities of the foreign service, the decision has already been made, and I recently declared it, and specifically taken for the discussion, and I have assigned a group to offer suggestions on how to implement the priority for export interests. I hope things don't last too long, but the big project is to set priorities for the export interests and the products and services that sell products and services, since we will not achieve economic resistance until we regain the same values there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u110	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the contrary, although he has not directly asked me a question, I am delighted to hear what was said in his objection that already work on it and people are aware that every cent in foreign affairs, such as other matters, and that the priorities in the Ministry are under way. I didn't expect anything else of the highest. Ministers but intended to keep the taxpayers' money well in this regard. Because Schengen is referred to by the Minister, who is absolutely right not to be represented by the State Department of State. Rather, the Ministry of Justice has taken it as part of a cross-border security team, and Schengen's decision to close an external border falls on 15 May, next week. A decision will likely be made whether it will be extended. I have stressed that it will not be done and that Iceland takes the initiative and only introduce it in Schengen that Iceland does not continue to participate in the continuation of external borders. Iceland has custody to set up some special rules, so people are interested in what I hope they don't have. Of course, it has something to do with the inner border and for a discussion, e.g. The European states, or other European countries, have concluded that in Europe people are waiting for some initiative from the European Union, the European Union's joint directive and guidelines for the implementation of internal borders. Then I think that when a decision was made to close the European Union's inner border, the EU, the countries each made it without any access in the European Union, and people only weighed and cared for their own interests, and this was possible in opposition to the European Union. But it wasn't the European Union that took the initiative, and I don't think people should wait for some initiative from the European Union in this. [[The president calls.]] Me and the Icelanders own at least To have initiatives and advance in these areas and to speak for an open border, and to encourage our good neighbors and friends to open their borders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u111	A respectable president. I've made it a rule to come back because I don't think this form is too good, and if it were usually the way I'd wait for all the talks to be done and then I'd have some ten minutes to answer everything. I'm just trying to treat him. Congress officials such as I would like to be treated when I was in their position, thus trying to say the same thing after each speech and have done so during the discussion here today. Perhaps that is why I am not asking specifically but that the conversation will be better, and those who participate in it and observe it may be more informed if this is the case. But I am totally willing to consider changes in that form. In general, as far as it depends. A senator referred to them as just this: It doesn't matter. A senator pointed to, what we do, how the packages are made, or what actions we take; while borders do not open the economy, we do not begin as we know it. It applies not only in Iceland but in every country we compare with. Maybe there's a nation that can be completely closed up, I don't know it, but there's probably not a nation with great prosperity or prosperity for its inhabitants. This is the environment we are dealing with, and we must be very aware of and work all the years to open borders without challenging the results that have been achieved. Of course, we should take our step to the earth with caution. There are, however, ways to do so. We too have a natural problem. A senator is referred to, and I have spoken for our working together with other nations to that end. However, we are not to wait for someone else's initiative. There's nothing working with it. We must not sit down with our hands. The fish that row.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u112	A respectable president. I'm going to continue my talk that I was a little more than halfway there with earlier. I was talking about telecommunications, but a lot has been used lately at the National Council, and I also saw in this good report that the Secretary of Defense and Foreign Affairs had been meeting with telecommunications for the first time in history, and it would have been pretty good. I also have the information from the Council of Europe's Council of Churches and the European Security and Cooperation Organization that has been progressively identified in the last few weeks so that there are opportunities for the future. I was just coming in on page 6 of the safety and prevention section. 21st It speaks of an information mess, and it is now much under discussion by the United Nations and the Organization. Such information is especially directed against national and international institutions and undermines the security of governments and public trust in institutions and governments. The National Security Council recently established a team on information problems and the aim is to investigate the extent of the organized spread of incorrect or misleading information about Covid. It'll be interesting to see those results. There is a lot of work going on and a lot of emphasis on this group of subjects, as the report shows. Mr. President. Trust is one of the most important foundations of democratic society, false news, and information disorder is a real threat to the democracy to be taken very seriously. Thus, when people cannot trust the information they receive, it is impossible to make an informed decision and thereby fulfill their democratic obligation. Of course, I fear the magnitude, energy, and potential of those who deliberately spread false news in order to undermine the prevalence of democratic society as well as international institutions. But at the same time, I welcome the emphasis that both institutions, governments, and the college community now place on this group. I wanted to say that I was recently at a national security conference and the International Institute for Safety, where this was being discussed. An interesting amount of information was published, and in short, it is very important that we take a closer look at these false information here. It is, in effect, being involved in a national security team. Another amazing thing for me is that older people, who said 60+, are more likely to spread false information. Our young people who are being educated in school, who are more concerned and who think twice before distributing false information, are a lock on the information. How important it is, then, that older ones too receive this training and that governments take special advantage of it! It was actually a bit scary to see how easy it is to make a false model and to play with people on the Internet and to collect vast amounts of personal information online without people realizing it. Even if you're not very good at computers, it's easy. This was scary, so we have to work on it. It's almost time. I wanted to name the Internet security. Many have done so today, and I just agree that it is important to work well with our Norwegian partners as well as with friends in the Baltic States who have very much experience and knowledge in this field. I thought it was interesting. paritaprevir Haraldsdóttir spoke of earlier, that this is natural in most parts of the countries, but since we do not have an army, there is something else. This is discussed in the report on page 22. 85. I was also going to talk about resource and environment on page. 41 and wanted to mention the report from Björn Bjarnason that we expect soon, the Bearson report. But there's been a lot of changes since that Prideenberg report, and the world is changing rapidly, so we need to react. The crown virus has pushed us into a time of great change and even revolution. I think I'm gonna make it work, because I don't have any more time. [[The president calls.]] The sea and the agreement mentioned on page 18. 33 is also of great importance and attention. But thank you for a good sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u113	I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator for excellent talks and also for perseverance, not giving in and giving another speech. I like that. If I may have opinions on the discussion, I think we should think about it in the future. It's so extensive. We are naturally taking particular EU issues, but I think that even if it was the same report, it would be wise for us to take just certain factors each time. Of course, it is up to the council to decide. At least I declare myself willing to do so in this way. I agree with what. A senator when he points out that conversation should have been in the North countries before it was closed. I have not been afraid to declare it. Similarly, I agree with the reason. A member of the Northern Union community, we always have an opportunity, but especially now, to strengthen and deepen it. I hope Bjarnason's son's report is behind it. Similarly, I see an opportunity for health care, indeed, even further in security and protection. Hv. A senator referred to Internet security, and that certainly is the scene. The Senator took some time to talk about telecommunications, and I want to believe they're here to stay. Of course, they do not take the place of meeting people. It doesn't matter whether you're meeting foreigners or Icelanders. I think if the representatives of the European Union were never to meet in person, they'd just be telecommunications, it wouldn't work out so well. We always need human relations, whether they are members of our congregation or among the nations. I agree with what has happened here. A senator, and especially with regard to the Northern languages. I know why. A senator not only speaks in this material but also does what everyone knows.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u114	A respectable president. Yes, we agree that this report needs much more space during the council. These are often different lawsuits, and it is very uncomfortable to have to, in fact, just list a chapter name and celebrate something, we have very little time to get right into things and to take in more information related to these topics. On the contrary, there is no basis for this, but there is no basis for it, so I encourage the presiding committee and the president of the Generals to look forward to adjusting the arrangements for the next work programme. We're dealing with huge issues, such as. The Internet security problem, therefore, we could do it for a whole day here because it's a matter that takes a lot of space for the nations around us and for no reason. It's all underneath. Our national security is up. This calls for giving more time and again to cooperate with our friends in this regard. I heard you were at the highest. The minister agreed that we should deepen our Norwegian cooperation, and I wanted him especially to be sent to the prime committee of the Northern Council. I think the highest. Minister's seen it. It emphasizes that there will be a Norse Risk Analysis and a DG strategy and that an independent Norse Commission will be established. [[The president calls.]] What's the bottom line? A minister of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u115	Thank you. A senator again. Without the fact that I have examined the matter in a way that allows me to talk about it accurately, I think that the thought behind it would be most desirable for us to have some area where we might react to unexpected events like this. Of course, at least when it comes to foreign advisers, they responded. Because we had a very good meeting with all the city council members. Although he was not long, we were there for some time, and we had a fine opportunity to get to know each other well. It makes it possible that when these situations come up and they need to have a telecommunications, they're done on short notice, and we've held six of them, just the foreign ministers. Since then, I have had two more than three with the development team and one, if I recall correctly, more than two with the Defense Council. This is what I think I'm here to be, but we need to have some sort of organization there. We've promoted very much NORDEFCO, which is the security and protection team. As I mentioned in my background, Finns and Sweden are very active participants in cooperation with the Atlantic Alliance. I'd rather not know the final outcome of that report, but I'd be surprised if Bjarnason's son's report didn't take it seriously. Until now, the international community service has passed the challenge, especially when it comes to the civil service I stopped earlier. Of course, this will be evident in the opening of a border. It is not enough for us to be in that place, but it requires that everyone agree on the methodology. Of course, it gets in the way that the situation in the countries varies from one to the other, but it doesn't make any difference that we are in the North countries working together on that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u116	A respectable president. There may be a few questions to answer, but this is a fine conversation we have here. I like to hear how concerned I am. The minister is about the Norwegian cooperation, and this town meeting was very good, I understand, and people are having a very regular conversation. I wanted to say only what I didn't have time to do before, about the climate, i.e. the resources and environments on p. 41 and then on in the report. I can see that it is not just in this chapter, but it can be seen in many of the report as well as in the increased attention of the Icelandic government on these issues. Of course, our interests have always been very effective and powerful with regard to the resource situation, but with particular emphasis on the affairs of the sea. I just wanted to say right away, so it's going to be said here in the chair, that I also feel very important to us Icelanders in the field of ecology. There we are in the world's highest order with great knowledge, excellent experts. We have participated in the UN's campaign for sustainable energy for all, and then we and the energy sector in Iceland are in cooperation with developing countries to communicate knowledge in this field. Then maybe I'll come back to my telethon and carbon tracks. I may not have heard the highest. Minister will answer, but I think that's all there is to do and in view of the fact that we have to put together the government's financial affairs in the near future, in view of the epidemic that is going on, there is a tremendous opportunity to reduce carbon levels and reduce emissions. If you get on a carbon track and put in a few flights, even if it's just one in a year abroad, it goes up tremendously. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. While it is of great importance to meet in person on a regular basis, does a minister not agree that there is good reason for both the Ministry and the Council to look for ways to reduce meetings? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u117	A respectable president. A brief continuation as soon as I agree that there needs to be more discussion, a double discussion, and it does not work if the president is rather shortening his time than extending it. But there is another story, and it reveals a measure of ambition when it comes to foreign affairs, which are extremely important. We need to provide a specific vision and leadership in trying to map our interests for a shorter and long time, and I described earlier that I feel that there is a lack of vision and that I continue to follow that lead. But it may not be otherwise to expect when a government class does not want to contribute much to such changes, so it is really not unexpected and perhaps understandable in that regard. Only about human rights. That's exactly what I want to go after the Minister of Human Rights with the National Rights Commission. Our session was over for the New Year's Eve, and even though we have received this committee into our hands, it was playing well, and what really matters is what was done, and I rejoice in it. Of course, you're asking yourself how we're going to follow this, not just within the Human Rights Committee. How do the government come to form the decision of the European Court of Human Rights? How does that make a decision? I feel that the vision about human rights and that we take seriously the international commitments we've accepted might be sharpened by the reaction. I feel like there's a shortage of that on the part of the government. I wonder, now I can't remember on page what it is on the report, the state of the International Business Agency, WTO, which is really paralyzed today by the conduct of the United States. For those who are listening and observing them, the United States has refused to serve as the decision - making committee of the Agency, which is important in the sense that it greatly encourages the promotion of international relations, which helps to make good and really active goals for healthy international relations. The United States has countered this issue, and as a result, an emergency is under way. The European states, which I am going to allow to mention here, and Canada has temporarily established a ruling committee to try to solve this and perform the work of the International Business Agency while the United States is under this hat and in effect undermine this important agency. This means that the Agency will not reach the peoples who are really in need of the most needed care, which is needed to think that they are prodded and scraped and said: Remember what freedom and open business are of great importance to the quality of life of all the nations, to the quality of life of the peoples of all lands. There is a lack of it and a serious need to see that the Third World does not have that support, especially in these times. I think and I came to my first talk that it is so important that we take the climate into it in a specific way during this revolution. The World Trade Organization could have made a huge difference in promoting the green economy all over the world, both in the Third World and even more, in promoting it worldwide. While America is in this way blocking the work of this committee, it is missing that we have an open and free trade that is far more important today than just for Covid. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to that, he may be involved in his second speech, how the Ministry has already used it. Has the Ministry inspired these indications and encouraged Americans to appoint judges on this committee? This is important to the big picture. It's quite clear, let's just have the final words for now, at least, that, of course, we're living in a time where the lines of liberalism and international community working on the other hand and isolationism are taking place, and that's why it is important that Iceland's voice be heard clearly and well, always with democracy, always with an open market, always for human rights everywhere and at any time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. First and foremost, I'm going to go to the International Business Institute and review it only in a short line of conflict. The World Trade Organization is something that followed GATT, and all of this is built up under the leadership of the United States. However, it is not just with the United States that men have thought that the arrangement as it is today has. I don't expect things like the fact that the same person could be an economic empire and a developing state, which means he has a premedication, we can say, in terms of contracts made by the World Trade Organization. Then there is no denying that there has not been much new negotiations with the International Business Organization. It was thought of as an umbrella, it'd be all under it and we'd only have one market in the world, but the Uruguay process hasn't done much, unfortunately, and little has been happening. There have been disagreements between the United States and others, and they also felt that there was discrimination. This does not change the fact that the decision - making committee does not exist because it is not a mother, nor does it mean that there is any room for design in it. This means that when there are issues between countries that are based on the trade agreements of the International Business Organization, they cannot be determined, there are not enough judges in the court to do so. Our stand has been that we put forth all the emphasis on maintaining the International Business Organization and we are in contact with the states that are now looking for other ways to do so, and we have likewise encouraged the United States to search for solutions in these matters because there is no good news when the World Trade Organization cannot resolve issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u119	A respectable president. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to push the pressure of the United States so that at least the International Business Organization can continue to contribute to the normal foreign trade and try to speak for others. In the world's economy, green solutions are long-term. It is of great importance that international institutions are not being undermined, as the United States is now, unfortunately, with regard to the World Health Organization. But that's another story. I think it's important to mention the defenses, I didn't bring it up before, it's a natural huge package, and it's part of what we should talk about, and as a member of the NATO committee, I think it would be fine if we were to ask for a president to have a special discussion about NATO and the defences. There has to be military exploits and its activities, and I've supported it, but I also feel that it's acting on the right channel. It needs to be passed through a political treatment, through a democratic discussion. For example, it has always been a prince of the Independence Party not mixing business interests with defences. It's always a matter of personal interest when Iceland's defenses are assessed. Being members, founders, to the Atlantic Alliance, has had tremendous significance for us Icelanders, and we have exercised that authority. We have held up a democratic discussion, but this must be done on the grounds of the council, that is the opinion of the council which is the national defense rather than the economic interests of certain areas or branches. That is how it must be viewed. I'd love to, if anything. A minister comes up here countering to know how he looks at the evaluations of these specific interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u120	A respectable president. Hv. A senator can be absolutely confident that I speak for freedom in business and always have and will always do. Hv. A senator speaks of taking out a particular party, and then I have, for example, more as a senator than a minister, when I have had the opportunity to meet with European leaders, speak highly against the protective and protective policy there. Happily, when it comes to business freedom, we stand far beyond the European Union. Hv. A senator was discussing these matters, and I felt that she forgets even those who are even closer to us. We know that if we walked in the European Union, customs on various products would rise dramatically. Our freedom to the Icelanders is about 90%, while it's in the European Union, if we take the toll line, 26%. This is one of the data presented during the adaptation discussion. For example, would it not be necessary to place more billions into a system that would interfere with a relatively simple system of customs that we now have? Then we can go to the technical business barriers too. If we are talking in general about the business affairs of the world, customs are no longer the biggest problem. Every country is affected, but especially to us Icelanders, who have so much to do with their own free world trade. In terms of the defense and security, I have to admit that I didn't quite understand why. A senator was leaving, but our position is very clear. Of course, we are following the course that we have made for a long time. We are active members of the Atlantic Alliance and with a two - sided defense agreement with the United States. That means, for us as well as the alliance because we are an important link in the Atlantic Alliance and its defenses, that this must be a position. However, we Icelanders have so far used it, both in the time of the flight, by the beacon, by ports, and by other means, for decades. There's nothing there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u121	Mr. President. It was extremely important to get in. For a time, I thought the minister of foreign affairs had become a spokesman to try to raise walls and oceans rather than the others because it is not a secret thing that we have experienced that ministers in the government have talked about raising customs, increasing toll protection during this situation. We've heard that from a government minister. It is of utmost importance that humans are on the watch for this matter, and I must be glad to give it to them when it's the highest level. A minister has a conversation with the British because of Bfenit, he maintains these very views, that there is a need for freedom of business between countries. If so, he must deal with it when the British wish to do so. bringing agricultural products into Iceland. It will be interesting to hear a minister's attitude toward it. However, I feel sorry for all the suffering that exists from time to time toward the European Economic and European Union, which has paid the greatest benefit to the Icelandic nation in the past 25 years. All the time, the relationship and agreement need to be resolved, and everything is so impossible, so ruined, and tried to speak it down instead of talking it up and trying to draw out the important things. [[Up front.]] What's important even. In fact, consumer protection has increased. [[Up front.]] We have bills from a minister of the government, from the Independence Party, which, in fact, draws. from consumer protection. Do you want to talk about ownership and travel agencies? Just a few examples of how men associate with this power. Or that bill from the Independence Party members of the government, which includes. Rather than aim to increase the competition and competition, it's to reduce the surveillance. That's why being a democratic is important at the council. [[The president calls.]] That's why this sort of conversation about foreign politics is important because eventually it is always trying to squeeze out instead of expanding. [[The president calls.]] We need to have a discussion about a free society, an open society, a global society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u122	Mr. President. We have been talking about the time we lack to discuss this important issue of foreign affairs. I just wanted to add in my shorter speech the battle with false news and misinformation. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir, president of the Council of the North, reminds us that Iceland's prehumanity in the Northern Country Council has shown a willingness to consult the Arctic Council for answers to how authorities, politicians, civil society and other institutions can respond to the information and distribution of misinformation. This is of utmost importance because, like epidemics, this is a national security issue, and these two things require a little higher in the order of importance as we discuss foreign affairs and national security issues. Although at first there were laws for national security and national security not particularly high in paper, in view of the experience we are experiencing today, we really need to have it that way. This has exactly to do with the history of Covid-19 distribution of false news and wrong information about people who have lived and lived in the same way. to put pressure against listening to experts and scientists. In fact, it is in the discussions here at the Senate Hall when members of the council, such as presidents, are present. The foreign Directorates are here to say that we have to push ourselves into opening up the border as soon as possible. I just want to remind you that one of the reasons why the Icelanders have done so well in the fight against Covid-19 is that we have a lot of good experts and very good scientists, and we have borne the wisdom to listen to and obey them, but we also listen and listen to and respect the international institutions we are members of, such as the World Health Organization. We have had the wisdom to accept the counsel that comes from that source but not to undermine the international institutions we are in. Even though we want to make everything happen, we must continue to respect science, respect the advice that comes from experts in the international institutions to which we are involved. I'll just make it right and give it the best. Secretary of State to do so, and I know that he does, even though it causes pressure from several members of the Parliament not to do so and to help or relax. We are always better equipped to deal with such decisions when we listen to scientists and professional advice and trust in what international institutions agree on. I also wanted to remind you about the defense that there may be reasons to talk about them and to have special discussions when the Senate work is being done in the proper form, but then we must also be able to talk about the change in security, the security assessment that is fundamental to the decisions we have been taking in terms of building and expanding investments in defences. We may need to include it in that discussion too. All of us are a little more talkative here after a few weeks of different congregational duties, and that is why we are very anxious and perhaps especially when the time in this discussion is not quite as long as many of us thought it would be. But it is clear that in these strange times we have experienced over the past few weeks, it is incredibly important to maintain strength when it comes to international cooperation and cooperation, and not to undermine the international institutions we are involved in, but to strengthen and strengthen them. By doing so, we strengthen the worldwide and international cooperation and the worldwide conversation we must have. Although telecommunications may have led us to take more meetings through our computer and at home, it is also important to meet and create relationships, as well as to have conversations, to go out of our own borders, to meet people, and to see how there is experience elsewhere in other communities. This is what I think we all agree on, which is now in the Hall of Congress, at least. I just wanted to talk about it because of what happened. paritaprevir Silja Dögg introduced these vital factors as false news and error because we have seen them threaten democracy and human rights and respect for law and order. We've seen it happen at tremendous speeds. We have also seen this when it comes to increasing hate crimes, and I wanted to mention them over the years. þm. Birgis, the son of Thorin, of religious persecution involving false stories and misinformation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - Thank you, chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u123	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Councilmen for a good discussion. What I'm taking from this discussion, I'm going to try to review it at this brief time, first of all, I'm glad to see what's wide and it's improved a lot since I took over the office of foreign ministers. It just tells me that the knowledge of the senators, and I hope for the country too, is becoming more international, for we have many interests. We have limited resources and resources, and it is important that we take political discussions about how we make the most of these things. I also appreciate all these thanks to civil service. What I want to say is that civil service is always there. It's just that it hasn't been prominent in the media. Those who normally work, though not many, have always done a very good job helping Icelanders who are in trouble elsewhere. However, I think that one of the things we've done to change the Ministry, and I think it's all played together, has helped now. We are trying to communicate as much information as we can on what we are doing, so to speak. This helped when more training came, not just in the information department, but in general and in the thinking of getting information through, and when these circumstances came up, a lot of things went out on it. Also, I think we can say that the flexibility in the Ministry is great, making it possible for some 140 people, at the most, to be involved in this matter at the Ministry. Since then, a dignified president, we have been encouraged to do some things and I just like it; although we are happy about this work, we have not achieved perfection. This is a source of encouragement from various sources. Councilmen, therefore, are merely very positive. There's a lot of talk about opening borders here, and that's very normal. Why the discussion? That's because we have to gain economic resistance. We have to. As long as we're closed, it won't happen. Then we find ways to open the land, and we do so. with experts, we have the lowest chance of experiencing a severe relapse in the field of infection. But I don't know anything more than any other whether this virus will be here for another month or ten months or ten years, I have no idea. It's just a whole different world scene, and we need to take it into consideration. But as long as we don't open up, we'll bleed out financially, so to speak. It's not sustainable, and we can't afford it the way the situation is now, it's in the middle of nowhere. I don't know why some in society now show up, thinking that a government fund can be walked on as if it were an inexhaustible source. It's not like that. The money's going really fast. Happily, we were prepared financially. But this is going to change very fast, and we need to think of all the ways to get economic resistance back. Here the safety issues have been discussed in a larger but frequently context, and that is very good. This was a talk about things that I liked to hear from. Councilmen, Internet security, 5G, and so on. It has not been in the discussion before, and it is very important to take this discussion. I've certainly found it in my meetings, so I've taken it into government and national security advice and elsewhere and, like my Ministry, whatever concern we have on these matters. We think it's a serious matter that needs to be exactly the same as the countries do that we're in most contact with, and I'm specifically referring to the northern countries. Then we need to discuss the defense. And if defence has ever been important, then now it's because we don't know how a case is going to develop. It is very unlikely that they will fully develop in a more favorable direction. It is easy to imagine some people who do not have good intentions to see opportunities in the present situation. We're a very fortunate, respectable president, a defensive team, we're in the Atlantic Community, and we have a two - sided defense agreement with the United States. This has helped us so far, and in these circumstances, it is very good that we cooperate with them. Then, as it is said, it is absolutely clear, and the decision has been made, and we are working to establish that foreign services are now setting priorities for exporting interests, for reasons I mentioned, which never before. Of course it's always been a priority, but I don't think we all, Icelanders, need to be aware that now we need to make money because we're not exactly sustainable right now. We're going through a very difficult time and we need to try to get out of it as fast as possible. This is a legal procedure. Ever since I took over, I've thought that it will always be our job to make progress. The only time the embassy has been shut down in good school is in recent years. It's never been done before. When looking at foreign service business, it has not had an increase, but a decrease if compared with business statistics from 2007, 2008. This is very different from what you can see in other areas. Thereafter, members of Congress have to decide how to set priorities. I believe, however, that at some point there was a need to maintain the services and interests we have had by foreign policy, is now. I'm afraid we'll see everyone for a project that we haven't seen very long, and we thought had left the table, and I mentioned it in my speech earlier. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir is gone, but she pointed to me questions and comments, and I don't know why. A senator said I was talking about the EEA because I was talking about the EU. There's a big difference. I was talking about the EU and I was talking about the EU's protection policies on business, not just customs, but technical business barriers. I wasn't talking about the EEA, it's not a union. That's why we can do our own free shopping deals. If we went into the EU, we wouldn't be free anymore. Then Brussels will do it for us. For the agricultural treaties, a tax agreement with the European Union, there is something we've been looking at, and I have to admit that I'm not sure that it's the best deal we've ever made and when it comes to our business policy we're very liberal and, as I said, we're much more liberal than the EU. This is only shown when men compare EU to Iceland's legal freedom, 90% in Iceland, 26% in the European Union. These are just the facts. This reference was made to Bexit, and since the customs contract was made at the time of the European Union in Britain, and the large market for our agricultural products is in Britain, their import is also high, I think it is normal to take this into account, but it has been difficult to discuss it with the European Union. A respectable president. Once again, I want to express my special pleasure with the discussion today, I've always felt that it was good and perfunctory, and I thank all of them. members of the council who participated in it. They all came prepared to play well, and they studied things very carefully, and they brought me good words, and I've observed all those talks, and I've made answers to all of them, except the afternoon talk. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Björndjörndótttir, that's all there is to say, but that was the last speech before mine, and I didn't see any particular reason to react to something that was otherwise than in general in my final words. It's good to have this discussion about as important a group of subjects and the more discussions we can have here at the council Hall, the happier I am. I think we've taken steps now that we shouldn't go back to, i.e. to divide up the business of foreign affairs, and I think we can go further. I'm not going to go to list it, I'm just declaring my will to participate in such a discussion, but of course it is. Parliamentaries decide what such an arrangement will be like.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u124	V.E.G. President. I'm here to recommend more of a committee party than anything else. The legal committee on bill for funding before 2020 Of course, it is special to stand here in such a situation as measuring for money during this time of the year and for the second time in a short time. But we do live in a special time and, of course, without any condemnation. As in the budget adopted at the end of March, the bill is primarily requesting budgets for markets and temporary measures to cope with the epidemic's impact on the Icelandic economy and society. I'd like to thank all the reporters who responded quickly to the Commission's call to give comments in a short time and come to the Committee to discuss the suggestions found in the bill. They're numbered here, all these numerous people, on the front page of the committee list of the greater section, and I refer to that list. This is called a greater understanding because it is also presented with the opinion of smaller objects. I suppose, though, that there was a meeting with the Committee on the suggestions presented here, but of course there are a number of other ideas also mentioned in this opinion. Others will then recognize them in their talks. The measures made in this budget are only part of a massive government operation to face the economic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic. As soon as it is important to deal with them rapidly, it becomes increasingly important that we do not lose perspective, that we have a complete view of the measures we take, and the goals to take in which the measures are to be made, and how to react to the consequences of the epidemic. Among the measures already granted by the Council are unemployment improvements along with reduced employment rate, pay due to the pay of the persons under the district, demand of taxes, and granting the State responsibility of the State on the credit of certain companies to the credit. This has been done in a special investment campaign and has been provided for a marketing campaign in tourism, as well as the budget adopted by the Council on March 30. Of course, this is not a complete list, but the government's emphasis has been on protecting the survival of households and businesses to deal with the sudden disturbances that caused much of the economic system, ensuring that the recruitment relationship between employees and companies could continue. The purpose of this bill is to further expand support to groups that have not been reached by the previous measures, linked to other financial arrangements in the tax and financial support of the operators. Hence, it needs to be viewed in the context of two other prime points, paragraph No. 725 and No. 726, covering financial support to less management and further changes in tax laws and support for innovation companies and private media, as well as measures to improve the financial status of your community. For these bills, there has been a difference. We talked about a financial and business committee and we talked about one of them yesterday. A respectable president. The bill we're discussing here is a key element of two things. On the one hand, it is called for permission to provide support loans and, on the other, to provide bills for more than 13 billion dollars. These are three basic suggestions. First, the figure 8.4 billion dollars is social action. Second, contributions to innovation and evolution to $2.3 billion. and thirdly a donation due to a close-up carer estimated at a total of 2.5 billion dollars. and it refers to the case that I referred to, and is discussed in the question. The Economic and Business Committee. Of 8.4 billion, 5 billion are assigned to work for students and jobseekers and summer studies at advanced and university levels. One billion bucks. will be used to finance the stress payment for healthcare professionals who have progressed in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. There are many social challenges for the epidemic; 895 million. K. is intended for various social resources to work against social isolation of the elderly and disability, to help families of disabled children, to support children of foreign origin, to care for long - suffering children, and to treat children of foreign origin and domestic violence, to promote social services and child care in the most scattered, and to promote police, social services, and child protection to make services more efficient for children. Then, on the bill, we expect a mental - health campaign of 540 million. K. Documents to the project Health in Homeland, consisting of a number of measures. National Health Care Service will be promoted with special emphasis on mental and mental health. 600 million. K. it is designed to go through the rural areas and provide grants to less income homes so that children can pursue their leisure activities and sports activities. 250 million. K. will take action on the Southnes, where efforts will be made to promote social and educational activities in foreign populations and to establish cross-cutting applications in social, health, and educational fields. In addition, it is intended to strengthen and develop Réjanes Geopark. In the end, 125 million are going. K. to promote digital technology and rural services and the development of a staging model. This is a very rough list of the social activities provided in the bill. Another factor is 2.3 billion for innovation and development. In the context of all these bills, it can be said that innovation and evolution are highly emphasised. It is 1,150 billion. K. a donation to Kross, sceptres and innovations, which, however, do not need charge, will follow up with the Commission, where it will pass through the financial and funds of the state funds. 500 million. K. it's for the Food Fund and 300 million. K. In the student's new creation fund. That leaves 250 million. K. In the artist's payroll and 100 million. K. There is a special presentation campaign that will encourage business in the local trade and services. Finally, a warrant for 2.5 billion dollars is obtained here. to fund a close-up to companies, as per Parliament No. Seven hundred and twenty-five that I referred and I'm still on the subject. The Economic and Business Committee. However, the committee discussed economic developments. Economic and global economic developments are very uncertain. While a number of people draw visual pictures, traditional predictors really fail to grasp the situation, and they change rapidly. I think it is generally possible to say, as most of the agencies mentioned in this committee had a conversation with and a review, that the film was darkened when we were discussing the last financial bill. Not long ago. We know that a valid policy has been removed, and its underlying factors are actually completely smiling. It is not easy to determine when it is reasonable to plan a new course and schedule. During a normal year trip, we would be in a position to discuss financial programs. So it is safe to say that the scene has darkened as the period has passed. It is well reflected in the fact that the value of tourism in exports, employment and valuables is more available here than elsewhere. That is why it is seen that the contractions are going to be greater here than in most of the countries we compare with. Here we go. magazines, into the stage in OECD and the International Cash Fund, and others. The workforce's partners have drawn up stage images and in one of the business films are the tireiest picture of predicting up to 13% of contractions. Of course, the priorities of progress will be determined by the way that it will be successful to restore the households and the reduction of the limitations we have set for the fight against the virus. Of course, the only real solution to travel is that the world is going to travel again. That's the only real solution. However, we need to step in to cope with the consequences, as those weeks reveal to us. Advisorys were generally positive to the action being proclaimed here. I think I can claim that, a respectable president. They pointed out that further measures need to be taken. It was then noted to many that some would not go far enough. The comments covered a great deal of the measures outlined in the case of No. 725, bill for granting loans the responsibility of the state's funds to the full, and the capital, and the case of No. 726, for further measures to cope with economic impacts following the pandemic. The requirements for sealing are also stated in case 725 along with the supportive loans. I'm not going to discuss it any more here. There was a lot of talk at the time. The Economic and Business Committee and a number of reviews there, and certainly it's called on these issues. The bill's report refers to the bill on terms of financial arrangements, No. 726, which I have referred to, and is about further measures to meet economic impacts. In the 9th. It discusses business support for special media. Hv. The Economic and Business Committee has proposed changes in this article to set out support, guidance for Ministers to implement regulations. So we need to take steps in the budget bill, and we're going to make some adjustments that allow us to use the financial resources available in current budgets, up to 400 million. K. For this reason, there is no proposal for a special bill in the bill for financial support. A few commentators rejoiced with a proposal for stress, but they thought that more would be paid to help provide such a reward than is suggested here to form a number of nursing homes. This, of course, is difficult and obvious that much stress has rested on many. The results are especially due to the fine performance of a number of progressive measures there. Nurse homes have, by their actions in general, achieved good results, I think we can claim that. I have heard a pathologist, and others talk about the results being part of the interesting results we have achieved in the struggle with the virus. The majority of the objects point to the highest. Healthcare Minister to have their arrangements checked out. It is important to reflect some of the pressures and extra costs in domestic negotiations. However, the committee discussed this somewhat, and this is always a problem and a fair matter. I think it's very hard to draw a line about who gets and who doesn't. I think it's gonna have to be examined, but this has been 1 billion for a while. This was a great deal of research, evolution, innovation, and education. The Commission gives special attention to a sufficient supply of academic space in the colleges of the country, especially at university and college, and high school technical studies. It was a general pleasure, I think I can claim, with the labor market and educational resources offered, but the greater part points out that there is a need for a variety of people, including disabled people and people with limited working skills in a job market and within the school system. The same views apply to strong health care and mental - health care and the support of leisure strength through rural society. The majority stress that there will be consultations between the parties who have the share of the community's activities and/or accept them. We're here to represent the local community, the Sports and leisure councils, the sports and youth society themselves, and all the representatives of a hobby that falls under this strategy. At this time, an increase in alcohol consumption and dependence is not expected in the community due to the effects of Covid-19. How important, then, that the difference and variety of treatments are! It is therefore suggested that Iceland's Medical Insurance be negotiated for staging outlet services and working on waiting lists at the U.S.A. after alcohol therapy generated by the outbreak. This project will be added 30 million. K. Then I'd like to mention the role of health care in these matters and the mental health care teams. This is important, but the focus here is on the variety of therapeutic options and after conversation with the SÁN showed that the effect of Covid-19 has been maintained so that they have a loss of income and therefore, if necessary, they need to reduce the basic services of the health system. When the committee fails, it is important that they bring back money quickly so that they do not compromise their ministry. One of the consequences of the epidemic is the increased isolation of disabled persons who suffered from impaired service or who were suspended because of personal or social circumstances. A number of places in this country offer reunion or employment and activity for disabled people, some of which, for example, have some of them. those who are partly business-based on goods or jobs, who have difficulty maintaining function because of the consequences of Covid-19. In view of this, it is important that funding and emphasis be put on ensuring that the potential for rehabilitation, training, and protecting work will not be impaired because of the pandemic and its consequences. So the majority is suggesting 100 million. K. financing to ensure special temporary support for members such as their ministry. A detailed report from the rural communities, as usual, was given by a respectable president. They vary from time to time as soon as they are responding, they are greatly dependent on the action of the State. A number of actions, both on the table of the countryside and on the State, call for greater consultation between rural society and the state. Here, opportunities to strengthen the balance fund will have a positive effect on performances and therefore direct the committee to the rural groups to make progress in making good use of it to improve the bioavailability of disabled persons. As I said before, there is a high priority on innovation and development in the administration procedures. The resources funded here and those proposed in the tax-based initiatives of the reimbursement of research and development costs - they are raising the roof on those payments and rising the share - will be of real use. The same can be said of the financial resources we provide to form a Feed Fund as well as the investments already in Krea, sceptre, and innovation funds. We had a conversation with the Scientific Committee, and we want to respond to, in order to protect the relevance of basic research, by suggesting 200 million. K. who go to Research Fund. I would also like to introduce to you the research and development that the Commission directs it to the State Department and after the events of the Ministry of Education and Culture to complete the European Space Agency application in accordance with the approval of the Generals on October 13, 2016. 1827. It was noted in a more difficult way not only in the discussion but also in the field of employment, research, and science. The emphasis on innovation involves increased research support and development, as well as an important economic resistance tool. I think that this is the exact time, both to deal with the situation and also to look into the future, where it will be a huge challenge to reduce the rapidly occurring unemployment rate. A major challenge is to prevent long - term noncooperative activities. I refer to a group conference that is in the shape and was recently approved here at the General Assembly. I was involved in bringing it up, and a digital carpenter, which is a matter of course. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson served at the General Assembly and was approved. These are both tools for promoting innovation and its environment. It's the most part that wants to direct it to the highest. Ministers to consider that a newly formed position throughout the country, using these tools to unite the public and the general sector, create cooperation and facilities, provide resistance and work against unemployment. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson made this fine contribution to the work of the committee, and I expect him to take it further in his speech. The Commission reviewed a number of factors; the level of the sport movement, increased support for sensitive groups, national initiatives and, in this context, tourism's budget, direct access to companies, those whose positions fall outside the cut-off of closures, NPA contracts and number of jobs, the expansion of the general sector of the sector and the increase in contracts of the artist worker. Not all of these were met with agreements or additional sources in all these areas, but the majority suggest changes outlined in a special Senate document. These changes were met together and that is all. This is reflected in the warnings made by members of the Committee, in particular, by special figures in my parts and by the proposed changes. A respectable president. I'm about to finish this tour. As soon as it is important to act swiftly and vigorously, it is here drawing up that we will return a government fund with a high angle this year. It should be noted, therefore, that the scope of current financial laws has not been reduced. It is important in all these battles and debates and measures that the measures set out here for protection and resistance are actually being added to 1,000 billion levels of valid budgets. Then I feel forgotten during my discussion that the state fund is about to undergo a huge drop in income, both on the side of expenses and on the income gate, and we are making arrangements to get companies and households through this scrap. This year the loss of income will be severe, and the economy is, of course, about to decrease. This will lead to high-speed fluctuation, especially through unemployment insurance. Of course, having the strength to live up to the basics of our times is the role of a treasure. We must remember that there will be a day after that day, and it will be another year. We need to consider baseline laws on public finances that are self-sustaining and careful. It won't leave us. According to this, it is important that we take all these measures, meet this, defend the resources of homes and companies. Then there are other opportunities that the greater part will focus on the government to work progressively. In this regard, he noted a review of the film - making work. There is increasing interest in bringing big film projects to the country, and this may involve an application of opportunities for resistance. The Commission has called for further information on the situation and encourages the highest levels. Minister to give careful consideration to these matters. We've been informed that requests to the DCS have been made to determine whether groups that are filmed on such projects can enter the country. The Commission calls attention to the fact that the bill does not contain fees due to the large increase in government management and transfer costs in relation to the pandemic, making the most of the cost of employment insurance and health care. The Commission directs the government to call for the necessary tax rights as far as is needed. This can be done concomitantly for the economic crisis. I've already reported some adjustments made by the Committee to Conspiracy, in basic research, 200 billion. K. And with the contributions given by the Committee that last year, donations to the fund have increased by 31% from current budgets, a monocommunication to the U.S.A. to 30 million. K. to prevent the deterioration of that vital ministry. Then the commission suggests 157 billion. K. to ensure full funding of NAPA contracts this year. So here's a suggestion, like, 100 million. K. a business venture to ensure the function of protected workers. That suggests 25 million. K. contribution to congregate society to support vulnerable groups. I reviewed the technical proposals of Krea, sceptre and innovation, which goes through the funds of the state and is added to 6. access to this material, as well as support loans with reference to its specific bill. Otherwise, I refer to adjustments in a special Senate document. A respectable president. Finally, I want to thank the members of the board for the cooperation and solidarity of this and the proposed issues and with full respect for the fact that here are other suggestions and other factors and many ideas. This, of course, is to be the case. But this was achieved, and it is often so that not everyone will get all the things they want. But I'd like to thank them for the solidarity of what is suggested here. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, an officer on the committee, supports the suggestions made. But he doesn't think they're going far enough, and he'll figure that out here, I guess. In a specific chapter, you will find a warning report on what other committees do and write under the opinion of more things. At the same time, I assume that they will be further aware of them. According to all of this, the commission suggested that the bill be agreed with the changes proposed to special Parliaments. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Inga Sæland, and do so in advance, Birgir Þórarinsson, and do so in advance, Bea Leví of Gunnarsson, and in advance. Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson, Páll Magnússon and Þóra Árnadóttir Ánardnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u125	A respectable president. We're going through some committee opinion for financial aid from a financial committee. There's a lot of good things going on there, but unfortunately, I'm just gonna get right into what I really feel is missing into it, for example. on the issues of disabled people, i.e. NPA. It has 157 million, which is very good, but more is not being added. There is a real need because those inside may have seen that they should now be added to this party, that they would escape the prison they are in by getting this help. I wonder, then, if it can be feared by the state's position that the increase that was promised will not be in the near future?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u126	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for a good question. We used to call for information on the NAPA treaties, both local and the Ministry, and we also had an excellent conversation with the Microcolleague Coalition. There are 87 contracts made this year between rural society and the state. It was found that both through dressbacks and by other factors, the contracts were well-finished. We wanted to step into it, and we wanted to make them finance, that's 157 million. Regarding the increase of agreements, there was an interest in the Committee, which reminds us that there must be a conversation between rural society and the State because the state pays 25% and the rural community pays 75% and we want more information about how many contracts there are and where they are out of the country before we begin to enter with a 25% contribution and perhaps leave it to the local community. It would be to the peer, too, something unusual. But these contracts are going to grow substantially next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers, so he hopes it will work. Another thing I've wondered about in this is what I feel is missing and owes or not, that's, unfortunately, as I've called it a hunger lice, 20,000 bucks. alone payment for disability, and nothing has happened to older citizens who are in a bad position. There is another factor that shows just how much more it is necessary to give to those who, such as disability, that only in March and April has the church's Help Department increased by 60%. It shows how serious the situation is and how serious it is, unfortunately, as it is today, that at the same time we're shoveling money in a company some are abusing their situation, we're not helping the most needed and simply starving people today. I feel sad that we couldn't have -- I know there was a higher monopoly at 100,000 bucks. Perhaps or something, but this was not taken into account. [[The president calls.]] I ask: Is there nothing ahead of helping them, making sure that the worst of them have only more?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u128	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A good question for a senator. Of course, there are many things called social activities. 8.4 billion (U.S.) for those groups that are sensitive and particularly in these situations. Here, though, are some of the resources designed to produce, including 450 million to work against the social isolation of the elderly and the disability and for the families of disabled children, etc., both in child care and throughout the country. You're right. A senator came in. Our study made it clear that the demand for assistance, food support, and other activities had increased, and we add another 25 million to that, and that is, in addition to all the measures already being carried out on the bill in this social support.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u129	Mr. President. Before Covid-19 arrived in Iceland, it was decided to spend 400 million on the budget of the press, i.e. for Covid. Then, in the government's second course of action to meet the Covid incident, it was announced on the part of the government that 350 million people should be put in the media to face the loss of income caused by the outbreak of the media. It was a pleasant statement, but then when you looked at the data, the funds discussed here were 0K. to the press. It turns out that the majority of the Committee is not going to add another 350 billion. K. as it might have been understood that there was an additional 400 million but, as I understand, an additional 400 million to replace that money, the 400 million that was supposed to go into everything else with the media. That's why I'd like to ask him why. Councilman, chairman of the Committee: How is it that we are not fulfilling what the government itself was boasting about when she introduced this pack of measures, that there should be a certain amount of money on the media for the Covid pandemic. [[The president calls.]] I think men are mixing two things that really need to be explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u130	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst, Ólafur of Ágústsson, had a very good question. Of course, it was discussed here, not just when. The Board of Education is held in the General and Education Committee because it appeared Spanish when it entered the council. This is shown in a bill report, but there was no permit at all. It is true that in current financial laws 400 million were intended for general support to the media. Today, the result of Covid's media shows that there is a greater demand for their reporting and even their entertainment, etc., so the part-back route may not be the resources that would benefit them. I said in a speech earlier that not everyone gets everything. We still have our bill on the General and Education Committee. It's not left us. If it is available from the council and is drawn up as general support for the private media, with the points agreed by the Committee, we need to get a special account because we are on a budget to suggest up to 400 million. K. join this Covid support.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u131	Mr. President. It simply promises the media what had already been promised them on the basis of financial contributions. It's strange. Even the amount will be lower than 400 million, so there may be a drop of support to the 400 - million media. I'd like a later answer to focus my sight on unemployment. Hv. In the morning, a senator and his colleagues of the government passed the United States's proposal to raise unemployment benefits. They're now 289,000 bucks. per month. I'm asking why. A senator: He trusts to live at 289,000 years. months? Why did he go down? So, the senator's suggestion? Clearly, this is not much of the increase the Conspiracy just offered here. This was really a realistic proposal to make progress in this hall, especially in view of the fact that now it is reaching 15,000,200,000 on unemployment. All Icelanders know someone who is on his way to unemployment benefits or is about to land there themselves. People can ask: Why should we trust members of Congress who do not rely on themselves to live on 289,000 dollars? a month? Why should we trust the members of the council who decide in this room that the people who face unemployment benefits should accept so little benefits while members of Congress would never accept such a low income?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u132	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I think that's a perfectly normal answer for the person here says that with a family of seven, it would shake a dose and I have a clear understanding that this is low and difficult to let it work. I'd like to say, though, when making decisions to raise unemployment rates - we raised them by 30,000 dollars. In 2018, and it was well, and, of course, there is a great deal of pressure on the rise and nature of the case as it is high unemployment, it's a small sum, and hopefully it will succeed -- then, of course, it needs to be in some context of the general interest and contact of the labour market. It is quite possible for a panel to step in there and say: " Let's just raise the unemployment benefits. I just warned you, talking about the money in general, and I went into it a little bit. I think there's something we shouldn't step in. But I suppose this discussion will continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u133	A respectable president. I wondered about the overall vision of these funds and previous financial provisions and the next funds. Why is a final concentration of 2.5 billion instead of 2 or 3 or 5 or 1? Why are contributions to mental health and telecommunications at 540 million? K., which is somewhat accurate in the context of the budget, but not 1 billion or 500 million or anything else? A question I asked at the first meeting about this was, "What problem does each operation face?" Who is expected to reverse the proposed actions? As usual, there was no answer. It seems to me that there is a small characteristic of this bonus and a previous budget, a semi-important operation that is carried on without specifically being made known by the council for the reasons involved in this operation and not the others and why it is this amount and not anyone else. Then I wondered about the responsibility and supervision of the legal committee. Who is she?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u134	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn wife, the Leví of Gunnarsson, has a very important question. It's something that's just part of our work. Maybe I'll start where I can. A senator ended. We have a very well-supervised role, and it's called a controlled budget operation. I can totally agree with that. A candidate is to be brought forward here, often in a way that is not clear and specific, and the data that follow the decisions made. In terms of closing concentrations, it is another matter of Congress, behind a plan of how large a number of enterprises will fall under its proposed limits. Regarding mental - health matters, there is a fundamental number of jobs that are behind the recruitment of more psychologists, psychiatrists, and those who are expected to fit into the picture of health care and a team. But this is a very important point. A senator pulls out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u135	A respectable president. In a sense, it is an answer to say that there are a certain number of employees, etc. which comes into the mental - health world, which explains that amount. But behind that question is if the need arises. We have no idea. That is exactly what the Generals were doing. When the company comes and says they need money, we need to ask why. What are the benefits of financing the activities the Commission asks for? There is a passage in the budget that if anyone, the answers to them have not been very thorough. The feeling I'm getting in all of this is that the government is actually admiring to guess, to copy the actions taken by governments in other countries, and to shoot simply at the amount that seems to be high enough to atone something.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u136	V.E.G. President. Thank you. This important question was raised by a senator. I would not, however, go so far as to say that there was some type of atonement involved. We know that the consequences of the epidemic are profound when these factors and many who experience an increase of anxiety, depression, and isolation, and so on. So the need has increased, we feel it, and that's why we want to step in with an additional donation. Will we reach out for the need to care for the problems of all at once? No, I'm sure it's not. But I think we're taking a very important step by putting this money to further this aspect.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u137	Mr. President. Thank you. For his history, a senator and chairman of the legal committee, Willum Þór Þórsson. I just wanted to come into my rural society at the same time. A senator. It was noted at a meeting of the local organisations with the Committee that these measures had to take on a major loss of income and expenditure. The representatives of Reykjavíkurburg, who arrived at a meeting of the Committee, for example. Emphasis on the need for financial contributions to the local community. In addition, the balance fund has been affected by a loss of income, up to 4 billion, so it is uncertain about its approach, as it has previously been. Also, let's not forget that 80% of the population's side is pay. I want to ask you why. Senator: Is it to be expected that the government will offer proposals for special support to the rural communities?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u138	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's a very good question for Þórarinsson's son. It is important to note that we regularly had a very good conversation with our rural communities and were given much publicity. We talked even. to represent the city of Reykjavík, and to be seen in the scene they are considering, and to both the Union of Iceland and the city of Reykjavík, it was stated that they missed more consultation. It's a lot like government funds and homes and businesses, and we all feel it. The rural population is responding, and their responsibility is great. They require a discount on real estate taxes and every pay, etc. I think that before making any decisions on whether or not there will be any direct support from a state to a rural society, and I haven't heard that there are any decisions to make on such issues, it is important that this consultation be improved, that there will be more and more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u139	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. A senator and chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, sees the need for more cooperation with rural society and consultation. It's totally necessary and something that hasn't been accepted and it's written on the government, it's just like that. However, I wanted to get closer to my rural society and, in this case, Southnes. Now the latest South American unemployment figures were coming, with a ratio of 28% in April. These are pure and direct disaster numbers, if we can put it that way. Smokeytown has 28% unemployment and a total Southnes with 25% unemployment. There's a special procedure for Southnesia in this bill up to 250 million. K. I'm sorry, but I'm afraid this extraordinary payment and operation is very effective, so I'd like to ask you why. A senator will see whether he can support himself or be expected to have further support in Southnesia.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u140	V.E.G. President. 250 million. K. Into this terrible position we need, thank you very much. A senator for bringing it out here. We were discussing our rural communities, which made it very clear to the representatives of the European Union that the situation varies according to the level of the sector in each area. Of course, the principal reason why this terrible situation in Southnes has been drawn is obvious. I think that there will be special campaigns where and in other places where travel is as much as it really is. Then there is a further analysis and how we are working through this step by step. I think that's pretty much the answer I trust to give here, but I think it's gonna have to look at the situation in the whole country. This is one of the things the Community Talk Committee has to go through.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u141	Mr. President. Here we are discussing the two so-called operation package, presented by the government. It has to be said that this package, in case of a call, has caused quite a disappointment. The frustrations are made clear by the tourism services, by the labor movement, by the pro-employers, by the Scaring Alliance, by the older citizens' society, and, of course, the government position, which is somewhat more ambitious than the government groups in this regard, to name a few. Presumptuous actions in this budget are not enough to address the serious situation facing Icelandic households and companies. You know how big this raise is? It's over 13 billion. Is it a high number or a low number? It's a very low number, this raise is about 1% of the government budget. I know it's going to a bigger angle. I know this isn't the only pack of action. The last increase was 25 billion. This is not enough to face this crisis that everyone agrees with, right and left, up and down, about being very deep, serious, even one of the deepest economic crisis we've seen in 100 years. Why, then, should we jump for joy at getting 1% of the money as discussed here? It was said repeatedly on the part of the ministers: " Let's do more than less. ' I've kept calling for it, so let's do more. This is not sufficient to meet the serious situation listed here. The government groups know that. They say, when you criticize them in this way, "Yes, yes, it comes later." It was said with package one, now box two, and next week a pack of three comes. However, there are already ideas that could be made, and we on a budget committee have repeatedly received reviews from the masses of people, stakeholders, that there are more to be done here, and more can be done. Now we need to put a public resistance into the system. While the demand for a private market has broken down, the government needs to come in with its power. In terms of the legal committee, because we are here at 2 Timothy 3: 1. um., the results of a massive meeting session were to make only five modifications, rather small, in the larger context, of 500 million, which is a 0.05% increase in budgeting, to put these figures in context. It's so little after everything we've been through on the budget board, meeting in the morning and evening, it's the result. Some of the adjustments are so small, it's something the Ministers are just supposed to take care of their drawer money, really. I was very disappointed that a financial committee did not trust to do more in harmony with the comments we received. We got some good reviews. I feel that a financial committee is too weak in spite of good efforts, too weak when it comes to putting more money in the coming direction and is necessary. I have also mentioned that with this pack of measures, the government presented a clear package of 36 pages. There is no mention of one word in the house. I know people work for companies. People are not companies and businesses are not people. This only shows the attitude, the approach of the Ministry of finance. The focus isn't in the homes. This is illustrated by what the government itself uses to produce. It would have been necessary to consider the actions directly involved in household income loss. It is noteworthy that such facilities are for example. not mentioned a single word in this pack, but we will see what comes next. The common relationship, the large bandit, described in its review of this package as a major disappointment, including the U.S. to ensure that there were no suggestions, this is just a direct review of it, to ensure the safety of groups falling between ships and docks in previous government procedures, such as individuals with underlying diseases, pregnant women, parents who have missed jobs because of limited school and school activities, employees who work for business under the direction of local authorities, etc. These are groups of people that ASI says they have to do more for and consider in these measures. So if anything, direct suggestions for homes are extremely shameful. In this regard, too, I would like to direct it to the banks from this chair that it is important that the growing numbers that the Secret Bank has raised to its homes. We can tell by the bank interest rates that it's not done on sufficient terms. It's fine that the banks hear from this chair that a decline in the Federal Bank has to return to its homes. I would also like to contribute to the camp loan fund, which has a payment on many of its loans, to consider taking it off so that people may be able to repay their loans, even move to pensions or banks where the interest is probably lower, but people are trapped by the payment fee. This is a consumer - related operation that we should consider, for people are paying a substantial amount of money in housing matters. Mr. President. There are tremendous disappointments with the fact that in this bill there is no increase in unemployment. What are unemployment benefits? They're less than 290,000 bucks. Can you imagine, 290,000 bucks? I don't trust myself to live at 290,000 bucks. and claim that no senator in this hall is trusting to live at 290,000 bucks. per month. Why, then, do we expect people who face unemployment and who make these benefits to live on this small amount of money? Congress was given this morning an opportunity to raise unemployment rates, not too much, but up to 314,000 bucks. What happened here? Senators left green, senators of the Foreign Party, and members of the Independence Party all said no to these small increases in unemployment. I think it's a shocking message to the number of people who are now going to unemployment benefits in today's condition. Unemployment is our main concern today. It's headed for lack of metalleagues. We've got as many as 15,000,900,000 people on the unemployment list, plus the people on the stock market. As many as 50,000 to 60,000 000 Icelanders, one fourth of the labour market, need more work or work at all. Unemployment, much less long-term workaholic, is one of the most miserable things people get into community, health, economic, etc. How important it is that we use every means available to combat unemployment! At the same time, we should increase the benefits that these people have to rely on. We can't expect people to live on 289,000 bucks. per month. We can afford to raise these improvements. We're doing a lot of action here. You can't tell us: No, Iceland can't afford to have more unemployment money than $29,000. That's not true. We certainly can afford it, Mr. President, and it's necessary that we slow them down. It is important to increase unemployment rates, but it is also extremely important to create new jobs and protect jobs. A major issue of this government is the laydown of lay-offs. This is the way in the third package, which will likely be discussed here next week. I have raised the idea, and others, that while creating new jobs in the private sector, we also need to increase the number of public jobs. Of course, we need to do both. We need to increase the number of jobs in the private sector, but he is responsible for more than 70% of the work. But we also lack public employment, and we needed it for this disaster. We needed more nurses, more medical staff, more teachers, students, police officers, child - care professionals, psychologists, physical therapists, scientists. There are all the public employees missing for this epidemic and much less now. To increase the number of public activity is good ideologies and economics. But that's not a new idea. One of the most famous economists of the 20th century, Keynes, spoke exactly like this. During a crisis and a crisis, we increase public employment and increase public activity. Public activity cannot be increased without increasing the number of public employees. This enables us to increase the number of jobs we need but also to improve our service to ourselves. The hospital has repeatedly sent us a message that we need more nurses. Why do we not answer that call? We have fewer officers today than we did 10 years ago. Medical therapists, orderlies, and other classes; people themselves sense that they need to be added. Roosevelt did this, the president of the United States, increased the number of public jobs. He also contributed to increasing public activity, increased the public demand, let the commercial cycle begin with public funds. That's exactly what we're supposed to do now. The Kingdom can strike. Of course, not everything can be done, no one is talking about it. Of course, we also need to care for the private and innovations. Private sector is extremely important, creating currency, etc. It's two pillars. The prisoner must not be merely another factor. I'm not saying that we just have a focus on public jobs, not at all, but I think the government message is that we should focus on something else, the private sector. When I brought up this idea, the chairman of the Independence Party, and this is a direct quote from him: 'This is one of the worst ideas I've ever heard,' he said when I suggested we should increase the number of nurses, medical staff, police officers, psychologists, etc. The fundamental difference between the Union and the Independence Party will not be clearer. It would be informative to hear from the left green and forwarding parties where they stand in this ideological discussion, whether it is wise to promote public service with more public work to meet the undeniably needed need in the welfare system or in the educational system. The Independence Party doesn't want to see this. A poor message, I thought, to public employees from the Chairman of the Independence Party. I always feel that the Independence Party is approaching the discussion of public employment and service as if there's some booth that needs to be fought against. I'm just going to review what an official employee does for the secretary of finance and the entire public in the country. It is the official who welcomes you when you are born. It is an official who teaches your children. It is an official who cares for the needs of disabled and elderly citizens. It is an official who is now in the lead of a pandemic, and it is also an official employee who studies Iceland's geology, monitors the danger of avalanches, designs the roads you drive, cuts out a helicopter to save a sailor, pays you benefits, and prevents you from being broken as a consumer, but also as a human. Finally, it is a public worker who nurses you on your deathbed. I think the Independence Party, and its chairman is always getting closer, so that all valuable things take place first in the private sector. It's simply wrong. It is as if some right - handed men did not realize that public employees create something very valuable and pay taxes. Official workers are particularly responsible for the fact that much of the private sector's valuable creation can take place. Let's go over it a little bit. Private companies rely on government workers to teach prospective employees of their private sector, their humble employees, to get them back to work in the private sector. It is public workers who are building up communications systems and transport systems that the private sector rely on. There are government employees who enforce competition laws, so the big pig is not on the small one. It is public employees who negotiate free trade agreements that the private sector is undeniably counting on. That's a long way to count. We are not to accept that the public system and its employees are being talked down by certain politicians forever. Then it is of great interest, and it is especially in times of emergency that financial ministers on their right turn to the State and want assistance from public employees and receive money from the public. The bottom line is this: There is both a social and economic way more rational for people to have jobs, although publicly, they seem to be a disgrace to this government than to be benefited. We can and should increase the number of government employees and, at the same time, we are improving our ministry for ourselves, whether it is improved health care, social services, improved education, innovation, legal care, or whatever we rely on. We must not and should not let the right rule rule rule in this world, for it is both unwise and costly. But I also want to repeat, as I mentioned earlier, that, of course, we should also increase jobs in the private sector. Of course, 70% of our jobs are in the private sector, and that sector is very important. But it is interesting to remember that during the past ten years, government employees have decreased proportionately compared to the country's population. It is also of interest that one third of the gross expenditures of 1,000 billion will be paid. Nobody here is talking about some way the public will be lifted. We're just talking about the fact that it's not enough to substantiate information, as if it's the best way in the world. We are also required to create and defend jobs. We can do that in this room. Mr. President. I want to do something else. Undeniably, the small companies seem to be forgotten, and especially the travel workers, in this pack. The most valuable resource for them is the so - called supportive loan, of six million. First, this is a relatively small amount, and second, we hear that the banks that are to be lent these loans are not going to do it at all, and we don't want to see these loans. This strategy does not seem to serve the purpose it was to perform. This can be a good thing to do. At any rate, we need to pay close attention to whether or not it will turn to the companies that need it. Therefore, Mr. President, you need to put more thought and force into how we meet the small companies, especially in travel, which is now bleeding out. This is not necessarily an enterprise that had to be closed because of the government's proposals. Rather, it's the companies that closed because of the loss of income or decline in demand for services. It is not enough to subsidize information as will be done in the third package, but we are still in another package. Hence, the government is concerned with a joint change proposal to decide whether we should not support these companies. The companies who have support loans or who can benefit from them are already restricted by the government. Why not give them direct support, as the government has decided to strengthen a so-called closing company? It's the companies that had to be closed for the recommendation of the DG. This is one way that they might be able to attack to meet the losses they suffer. I hear in many places of employment that the little companies, which are almost all of our companies, see nothing in these measures, or little, there's always something in this. These are the companies that don't get lock up, they won't take advantage of the loans, they will achieve an enormous amount of support loans. The rest of it is, what? Yeah, the part-change process. We support it, but we need to be much more ambitious to reach those little companies who are in grave trouble but who may not be asking for very much. These are companies that deal with e.g. We're paying rent back. I'd like to ask a real estate partner who has a large part of a living home to show understanding and flexibility toward these small companies at the rent. That's what matters. Giving these companies six months of rent renting would be important. I'm not just going to wait for these three big real estate partners, I'm also going to court those who own these real estate companies, and in some cases our pension funds, are giving us community responsibility. Everybody's taking on something. When it comes to such action, they need to be flexible. The pensions are a little bit of a state in the state. They have 5,000 billion. Can you imagine? The state has 1,000 billion. Pension funds are five times greater than the government's budget. The pension fund has 12 billion each month to invest. They are very important to us to get our wheels back on course and also to show their flexibility and understanding of the unprecedented situation that our companies now face. Pension funds, come with us into this, the banks, big business and real estate. So, in the long term, it's so important that we have a very powerful job life. We must have a powerful career, an exciting job life based on innovation and technology and optimism. People need to have hope in this darkness we are in right now. It's all about, like, three or six months of rent money, so we don't lay down too soon. Mr. President. Consider, then, the social activities in this package. They're kind of miserable. They hold 8.5 billion. It's not that much. I like numbers, and I like to put them in context. This social package is lower than the rate of reduction in fishing costs during the period of election for this government. Of course, we welcome those who receive some money, but we need to think much more about the social activities to take action. It's not just an economic shock we're going through, it's a shock in so many different areas. If we look at practical activities in this pack of measures, it will be very quick to do so. There are no practical activities in this money. When we handled our first funds, they were immediately criticized for being too small, even before the ink on that extra money dried up. It's about what I could do before, that it's so important in such a state that the government increases its demand for services and projects. I know the senators know all about this, but this needs to be more handsome than you're ready to do here. It needs to be more handsome. For a longer time, it pays to spit in so that the job will be restored and then return to paying taxes. We'll get out of this sooner. We must not think about the seemingly dominant form of independence. We must not allow the leader of the Independence Party to control our reaction to this crisis. It's not good for society if there's a ideologies above it. Now I'm courting my friends in the left green and forward. The Independence Party needs you even more than you do at that category. It's a new thing. I have said from this chair: New creation is the magic word from a crisis. It may take time to get the product out, but we don't know where the next Meniga or the next Marel is. It's so easy to put more into innovation. I know it's being put a little bit more in, but these are all too small money. The most part wasn't there to put anything more in the Technical Development Fund this time, they didn't want to put you in a movie fund, but it's really cool, and they don't call for a lot of money. When the movie projects are ready to come, they'll come to us sooner than the tourists, and the movie industry's begging us: Put more in the fund, put more on the reimbursement. I know that in the leading party of the greater part, it's said that it should be the policy to do so, but what matters to me is just the konscret numbers. If we mean that we want to promote the film industry, let's let the numbers speak for themselves. They don't do that, because they don't go to a movie fund in the presence of the Committee. I've only talked about artist pay. Here we're adding a little bit. There are 100 artists being added to an artist's salary, and prime minister said that this idea was derived from us in the United States. We welcome it, of course. I still reiterate that we'd wanted more for artists. There are 3,000 artists who are independent of culture, those who are not on the payroll elsewhere. These people are going on unemployment benefits. They haven't been able to win even. on the basis of transport and the recommendation of the regional authorities by the 20-yard rule, etc. I think it's so damp ideologies and politics: why shouldn't it be better to have an artist on a salary where he's working? An artist's salary is a salary. It has to be paid. Why is it not better to have an artist on the payroll instead of making unemployment benefits? It's a ◯win-win, if you don't mind me, Mr. President. Here we're adding 100 to artist's salary, and we're celebrating, of course, but I would have liked to have the 3,000. We could have afforded it because unemployment is so expensive. A 1 percent increase in unemployment is 6.5 billion. Can you imagine? You know how much is 6.5 billion, too? That's what costs ten times the number of artists on artists, just to put this in perspective. I'm not saying we could have made it, but we could have put more members into this system that we already have. This requires no special thinking or system changes, we only amplify the artists who pay artists. They would create a more rich society. Artists also create activity; they hire other people for work. This makes money, literally. Then there's the media. I find it odd that the 400 million people who were determined on budget before the outbreak into Iceland are now going to the press under the hat of the Covid epidemic. It's very peculiar. Everyone in this room knows that it may not have been quite the check. But why don't we straighten it out? Why are there still 0K? ... intheweaponstothe press? Why are we allowing independents who are stopping the media bill called on the Committee to win this fight too? They're doing it. In this series of operations, we discussed the use of 350 million people in the media to meet the Covid epidemic. So when you start looking at the magazines, you see that there's no dollar. They say: "We're going to use these old 400 million who were set for Christmas. Not at all, Mr. President. In fact, to bite the head off the shame, it is a lower amount. We had set 400 million, now 350, anyway, in the Declaration of Action. The rest of the part is gonna be able to deal with this because there's going to be a new proposal tonight to add. We need to take special care of the local community. They said in their account that they will be worth up to 50 billion dollars. loss of income. There is little or nothing in the suggestion of the greater part that attracts them. We need to take special care of individual groups, disability, older citizens, tenants, students. We have repeatedly identified it, especially since then. paritaprevir With a Oddný G. Harðardóttir, she clearly explained that not only raising her unemployment needs but also taking much more attention to the women's classes in this country. We've all got the campaign working with the merit tax. It even added car shops to it last time. Why can we not add women's so - called women's jobs to the same resources? We received reviews and conferences from the U.S.A., Psychics, the Concerts, and they were all members who spoke to us in the budget and called for additional support. Mr. President. In the end, there are positive factors in this contribution. I mean, there's pressure paid for forwards, but we want to let them reach more parties. Why are some of the staff of nursing homes or law enforcement officers being left behind? In fact, other positive measures have been made, some of which are made by our contribution first to the previous budget, but the administrative body dropped it. That's it. It doesn't matter to me. It's just a weird sandbox game. Finally, I'd like to say that we need to watch out for the passing of time and we need to start paying off our undeniably debt, so we must not let the Independence Party bring them down by cutting down into public service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There must be a way to stick together, huh? Councilmen in the left green and forwarding party, and standing on their feet for the cutthroats of the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u142	Mr. President. Hv. A member of the Sanhedrin arranged for many parts of his talk and covered many fields. It's okay. Many things are taking place when it comes to the financial affairs of the State. But I'd like to stop for a second. A senator came to his conclusion because it matters how we go through this crisis and how we get out of it and how we react when we get out of it. In the prehistoric debate, which is why. paritaprevir Regarding the views of the greater part, Willum Þór, the son of Þórsson, restated that the budget of the year is in effect. It is important to keep it in place that no one has been cut down. We're talking here about what we're going to do. However, it is also clear that this will be a problem because government funds will also earn less money, due to the development of the job situation. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator who is offering a huge amount of expensive suggestions how to visualize this. I agree with him that in the future we shouldn't have to stand down. But how does he, if he could explain a little better, want to do the work of increasing now? Because it's difficult.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u143	Mr. President. Yeah, it's a problem. I find it odd to hear from a senator left-green that these are costly suggestions. I was a member of a board of directors with this blessed party. Then, when we were together in the government - put students on unemployment benefits that summer. But there's obviously not a left-green policy this morning, since you took it this morning to take it step, so I don't think left greens are the same type I used to work with. I've been calling for more costs, yes. It's just, I think, in a condition like this, to attack on costly and ambitious suggestions. I know we have to pay it at some point, of course, but just after the last collapse the Union and the old left decided to go the so-called mixed way. The welfare system was tried as much as possible. This has been confirmed by the World Cash Fund, OECD, and others that it was a very reasonable way to protect the welfare system and the school system and then to consider certain routes of income. That's the discussion we're going to take, whatever form you've got in the left green sea to face. My experience with this blessed government partnership is that the Independence Party will control this. He'll cut down. So it is in your left green to stand on your feet and prevent it. We're in a position of command. We're trying to give you some serious attention, but you have to stick with us in protecting the welfare system and the school system. You're part of a group that doesn't have the ideologies, works show it. So I want to turn it to rest. In view of the fact that she chose to cooperate with this class at this time, it is your job to defend the system, it is yours to protect the public, it is yours to defend public interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u144	Mr. President. I can't help saying that I'm sorry. In his speech, a member of the body makes a decision. I don't think it's shy to talk about the cost of any action. It's just a fact. But that's good because we're reacting to the situation, so I'm just being out of line with my words in case of trouble. A senator wants to pretend that it's something negative, so it's not. But how it is done is important. Hv. A senator speaks of the need for a greater number of people who have the right to unemployment benefits, but at the same time, he says it's important that people have jobs, they don't work well, and I agree with them. Here, more than 4 billion are being suggested to strengthen the very idea that students will be able to get to work during the summer. I haven't heard anything. A senator will talk about it. Doesn't he think it's a positive operation? And then I have to ask it here in the end, because I don't feel it in a committee party. Also, in his speech, a senator did not hear from whether he simply agreed or supported this money proposal presented here. In fact, Jesus'words on whether he supports it and the suggestions here are being added everywhere. On the other hand, he has discussed other actions that he foretells and speaks of in his changing suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u145	Mr. President. I'll answer first: Yes, the Consequences support the government's proposals. We have. We support practical suggestions. But how is it that you do not support any suggestions from the government? Were we not talking about working together? We were in the same boat? In different categories of government opposition, we gather for certain adjustments, the Convergence, the Central Party, different categories, and the responsibility to return together with suggestions that we can combine. But how is it that you in the left green, forward group and the Independence Party don't support one suggestion from us? We're here for your good suggestions, and we're not shy about that. In such a condition, all you have to do is lift yourself up out of your holes. For jobs and benefits - yes, we want to create and protect jobs. There's nothing like that. But we also want to raise our benefits, since they are shamefully low, 290,000 k. Hv. A senator must agree with me that it is too low. It is possible to do both. For the students, this government is not about to be able to provide jobs for all students. That's for sure. The Continental Council proposes that students who are not going to be employed for a summer or who are unable to take advantage of the resources offered can obtain unemployment, those who are left out. But what was the message today from the government? No, no, no. You all made that suggestion. Again, another shocking and cold message from the left to students. It wasn't such a huge proposal that you couldn't support it, but it was very important to this group, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u146	V.E.G. President. I must say that I felt that I was listening to the exact same speech at which I was going. A senator and he moved here on the budget bill in the fall. There's more to be done here and more to do. But let's leave it in the middle. What disturbed me in this speech, apart from the fact that it was all full of semi-truth and twists, is this peculiar claim that independents have some disliked government officials. What invention is that? Of course, this is so that the combination is very important. It is an important support to society, a large part of the health and education systems, and a great deal of importance. But, hey. A senator has to realize that in order for us to stay here properly and properly involved, the business environment needs to raise the money. Hence, the main focus now is to ensure the support that makes these valuables possible. This is not a priority for this situation, which may be temporary, to begin increasing here in particular psychologists and teachers, etc. for a few months' work. It is a strange presentation, a strange priorities, and all talk of the investment that needs to take place, of increasing the number of individual employees in individual classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u147	Mr. President. Hv. A senator tells me that I hold the same speech over and over again. Yes, there may be rich reasons to hold the same talk over and over again. Hv. Similarly, a senator says that I want to do more, at the same time, and at the same time. A senator has an appointment to reduce, reduce, do less, be negative, and tear down. This is all I see from what I see. Senator. From what point of view, I see very few upbuilding things. Senator. Where are the ideas? A senator to deal with this? I don't see them. I don't quite understand why. A political senator when this is his only enterprise, week after week, drawing others down and being the most dangerous person on Facebook.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u148	That's not the discussion right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u149	No, you're criticizing my lawsuit, I'm criticizing your language. With regard to the public employees - I'm stressing that I'm not just talking about it, we're both doing both, doing business, and creating jobs in the private sector as well as making public jobs. The increase in the number of nurses should be a priority. Hv. The senator must agree. Very well if he doesn't want to multiply the number of psychologists. In fact, I think it should, too, but it is time to improve the public ministry and increase the number of jobs there. It is. We're not talking about a government that should be lifted above the economy or anything like that. Hv. A senator needs to keep in mind that more than 70% of the workers are in the private sector, but we have seen a decrease in the percentage of public employees compared to the number of people in the country over the past ten years. We have seen a call from the educational and welfare systems and the social systems that need more employees to improve their ministry. I'm not asking for much, huh? Senator. Is it not logical that there are more officers today than there were ten years ago? There's fewer of them. We've grown a lot. So this is a priority. It's about action that not only we are ready to attack. Every nation in the world is talking exactly as I do. There's only one political party in the world that I've been watching, which is against these paths, and that's the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] This is a 100 - year - old debate that shows that in a crisis, the public is improved, whether working or driving, to soften the crisis and get out of it sooner. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u150	The Honorable President. What I'm doing in politics is that I'm in a more administrative business. My political view is to promote the professional life that the left men usually call special interest. I aim to promote Icelandic employment, to make it more varied in order to make my contract effective. We can do more there. When I see a temporary situation in my life that needs to be saved temporarily, I don't think of raising jobs in the government, but I might think of making good investments on the public side as a private client. That might be important. My work here doesn't include community media, I'm a member of the board, and it sounds like it's a problem. Apparently, a senator doesn't know what's going on there, he just comes here with the same speech every time he comes up in the platform, never new. Always have to add here and there, and he always says, "It's very small. But when it's all taken up, it's only very much. We need to consider, and people must begin to realize, where value is to be made at the start, and what we must do to make this important combination more meaningful and varied. That she's made by government employees, I don't make any remarks, in the combination. I'm not against government employees at all. I've even been a state worker myself, although it hasn't been in my career very long.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u151	Mr. President. I don't understand why I have to be taking this fight that it might be wise to increase the number of nurses, police officers, etc. I'm not gonna take this list. I don't understand why I really need this conversation to say that now is just the time to add more. Hv. A senator claims to be a part of this administrative work. Yes, you are even making some improvements. I'm just saying, there's more to do. A lot of things. A senator has told me in the media, as if increasing the number of artists were the most insane idea he's ever heard - before. A senator remembers - now he is raising them. Right?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u152	I don't control everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u153	No, but it's up to you to decide something. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u154	Something.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u155	Yeah, I hope you take the least of those ideologies you're playing out here is a failure right-guessored ide that if you get public in front of them, it's something bad. It isn't, just like me as a left man wants a powerful private sector, of course. I want a very free employment life, but I must be able to allow myself to think that we can do better when it comes to the public ministry. I'm not talking in the air, there's a need for it. This is a reasonable economy that has been new for 100 years to cope with a crisis. Right and left groups have done this worldwide. We are to cultivate what other nations are doing. We're not supposed to accept that when the job life, the private sector, gets into trouble, then there'll always be losses and personal profits. [[Up front.]] We're supposed to take this - no, we're supposed to take this ideological discussion, how we react to the situation today. [[Up front.]] It matters. Now, an amazing move of money, including some, is going to happen. ... becauseofthe administration of this. Senator. Let's get all of this on the table. Let's take this ideological discussion. But you know what? I'm convinced that we in the United States are right because that's what we're saying and doing around the world. [[The president calls.]] Happily, the Independence Party is not at the government in other countries, but unfortunately it is here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u156	It's something new if the Conspiracy is right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u157	Mr. President. The central category has since the beginning of the economic catastrophe, so to speak, which is now going over the nation because of the viral epidemic stressed that timely and massive measures are taken to minimise the economic damage we are facing. However, the government has decided to take many limited measures, doing this in small doses that will make it more difficult to find the important refuge of employment and the necessary homes. The central category has supported all the proposals of the government in the measures involved in minimising the damage the viral epidemic has caused us. The central category supports this 2 pack of measures in advance, though the need to do better, and I will get in more afterwards. In general, the Middle East has been in the early stages of this case in cooperation with the smaller members of the Committee proposed a change form, all of which have been made by government classes and were introduced here earlier. In addition, the media has published a number of suggestions and suggestions on how to minimize damage, and we have also sent suggestions to the Ministry of Presidency, as requested by e - mail. V.E.G. The prime minister requested an e - mail proposal, and we have. Thus, the central category has contributed much to getting homes and companies to safety until the economic system is restored and here, in turn, reflux of tourists and exports and exports, which we hope will be as soon as possible. In these unprecedented times, the work within the legal committee has been extensive. It is known to all members of the committee who have attended many meetings for the lifesaving activities discussed here and who have been submitted. Despite the wonderful promises and good wishes of the Committee on the arrival of the smaller part of the proposal, this has not been the case to a considerable degree. Unfortunately, the majority of them have not already come up with support for the proposals of the Central Party, and they cannot help but search for this in the face of government opposition. That's my opinion. If this is the case, it is an abnormal interference between the European Commission and the budget. It raises questions as to what the real role of the Generals is in these fundamental duties of democratic elected agents. As I said before, the Central Party believes that the government's actions in this bill are not going far enough to meet the urgent need for resources in these difficult times for the citizens and business companies of the country. Thus, the media contributes to their own transition to the bill, as well as to the development of adjustments in cooperation with other members of the committee in a smaller section of the Committee. Of course, the measures established by the government are all important and there I would like to mention, for example. Social resources. They're important, and there's a lot of good in this bill. We also need to keep our eyes fixed on the importance of those who are unemployed, not being mentioned in the bill. It should, e.g. researching and giving coincidences so that people can study articles where there is no shortage. We must try to use the position we are in to benefit the future and increase innovation to important classes, as among nurses. It requires motivation, and it takes money, but the benefits are great. We need to take care of our children and the well - being of children in these difficult times. We need to strengthen a response system that works against children in the face of violence. This is a good thing because in these circumstances domestic violence has been found to increase, and in many cases, reports of child abuse increase. In the 2008 and 2009 economic collapse, the increase was 40%. It is good to be supportive of parents of long - suffering children. These options include the parents of children 18 years of age and younger, and this plan needs to expand and reach older individuals. The strength to engage in children's sports and leisure activities is a positive matter in relation to a low - income home. This group of people has an important assignment that would be ideal if they were to place money in this situation. These include the construction of apartments where disabled people live in so - called rooms. It takes effort to improve the circumstances of these individuals, who are totally inappropriate. It's an investment that makes and creates jobs. Under the conditions of work and unemployment, a special effort is expected to increase temporarily for students aged 18 and over. This will be the case with each individual paying the employment agency to a local society or public institutions over 316 of you. K. each month, and then a special campaign is expected to increase the study and work programme for jobseekers during the summer and the next winter. I take to heart what is presented in a paper with the bill that there is a great need to deal with the circumstances of the thousands of people who are now out of work and who are making use of their right to pay unemployment. However, the middle class feels that it is necessary to expand these resources to partners and private companies and transport the changes made to its subject on the bill so that organisations and private companies can employ those without employment with the support of the State and those who have been long without employment. It is one of the most urgent tasks of all of us here to try to recover our unemployment and try to create jobs for those who are unemployed and some resources that can be found. Even if we cannot find jobs for everyone, there are some options that we can offer. Another tool proposed by the Central Party for the bill on the insurance bill. As we know, the fee is calculated as a percentage of the salary paid by the company to its employees, the more money the company pays in pay, the higher the sum of the money paid in insurance and the higher the higher the insurance fees the company pays, the more expensive the employee is for his company. The price thus reduces the ability of an enterprise to invest and create jobs. Therefore, private companies' growth potentials are blocked by high insurance costs. Now we are in such a situation that every job, jobs will not come about by themselves, and governments must do everything in their power to reduce unemployment, as I said, the most in history. As the Central category suggests, temporary down payment of the insurance bill makes it easier for companies to stay in their employees during difficult times and hire new employees who, in turn, increase tax pay. This truly is the benefit of the temporary delinquency. The budget was estimated to be 100 billion per year, 50 billion for six months, but when one person is out of work, it is quite clear that this does not cost 50 billion to eliminate the cost in the year, it would almost cost some 25 billion. Then there is encouragement for companies to hire employees. They will have more money for it, and it will also bring in a treasure of the Kingdom. We suggest it follows 10 billion bucks. of this suggestion that we consider very important and well - chosen. I'd like to mention only our communities. I came in against what. Chairman of the budget board, what? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, the importance of consultation with the societies in the future. The rural community has complained that there is no consultation with them in these measures, and they call for special reinforcements to the rural community. I think that it must be examined with an open mind and seriously because of not forgetting that 80% of the rural population's population population population is paying and they've had a huge pay drop, as well as an expansion. In addition, the balance fund has been affected by a loss of income. All of this plays into the fact that rural income is smaller and must be met. I'm happy as hell. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, in answer, said that it was important to consider this possibility. I'd especially like to mention Southnes because there's unemployment now 28%. These numbers are so amazing that you don't believe them, 28% in Smokejanestown, 25% in Southnes all. The actions proposed by the government, 250 million. At that rate, the dose will be sufficient. I also welcome it from the wind. A chairman of the budget board that needs to be considered. According to the Industrial Association, there is more to come than this increase, and this, of course, is a high priority on innovation, which is of great importance. There is action on innovation and innovation that creates work and value. In the past, as far as income taxes are concerned, I have mentioned that the roof is too low. This has led to the conclusion of the industrial organization. As for research and development, it is not to be forgotten that when a government fund puts money into this important category, it is an investment. All innovations in a time of high unemployment are very important. All I want to do is bring in the inflation. Those who were questioned about the development of inflation feel that there is still a relative mood for inflation. However, I think we need to keep a very close eye on it, and the middle class has suggested that if it is found that there is a refreshing inflatable inflation, then the index price must be removed temporarily so that we do not have to go through what we went through during the economic collapse, that the homes and companies, and especially the homes and home loans, and the home loans, are out of control. It must never happen again. What may be particularly critical of the government's actions in general is that many of them go too slow and too complex. As regards the support loan, consider that they will be related to the loss of income so that they can be borrowed in proportion to the loss of income and the fixed cost. This allows more companies and more money to be used. I would also like to mention, in particular, that the Government Accounting Committee was conducted and stressed that they will be disfellowshipped from conditions where Kingdom responsibilities are present, such as on bridges and supportive loans, this government responsibility will fall. The surveillance committee involved in the work needs to have in the setting of season monitoring, and the treatment of the case needs to be agreed between financial institutions, that is very important. We now see reports of the misuse of the partial relief pathway. It's natural for companies to do that. We're all in this together, getting out of trouble together. Then they should not engage in such illegal activity, if not for this reason they should not be used. A few words about the closing power. It was shown by the tourism service that the density of the closing concentrations is not sufficient. It would be wise to increase the figure of money and see if it would be normal, for example. Places of the restaurant fall on that side. In support of the loan, tourism stressed that levels of income would rise from 500 million to up to 1 billion. The article emphasizes that there are oversteps in the right conditions for a certain course of behavior to the future. We need to listen to such comments because it is very important that our actions take place quickly. The longer it delays, the more the damage, the harder it will be for these companies to get back on track. We certainly hope that something about it, perhaps in August. It was found at a meeting with tourism that there are expecting us to see tourists here in August, but it will likely be on a very limited scale. I particularly welcome the present stress payment and remind them that the middle class suggested this at previous levels in a pack of action items within the financial committee and received a very detailed budget. But it's in here, and of course I'm celebrating. It's a bit fun to see the government making suggestions from the Central Party, from the government groups, and then appear in the next action pack later as suggestions from the government. Of course, you rejoice, but you do not understand why some human proposals are being offered; they obviously do not want the government to offer them. I stress that we are keeping a close eye on economic developments. That is a very good chapter in the section on page 5 of the chapter entitled "The Secret of Life. " 4 and 5 dealing with economic outlooks and trends, scenarios. I'm sorry, but I think it's very important for all members of the council to study this section especially in the committee's opinion. There's a lot of interesting in there, and we're seeing some very difficult natural numbers in terms of economic growth. Iceland stands out as different countries in such a way that there will be more contractions than there and in more countries, and there is concern, of course. I see my time is running out. Finally, I'd like to say that there are, of course, the bill is action and measures that are important. However, such efforts need to be made quickly. The bridge's not up yet. The support loans will be the same. The performance factor in this doesn't go well enough and needs to be improved. I really hope that the greater part and the government will push it over because it is very important that this will bring up enterprises as soon as possible and that social resources will provide for those who need it and to the households so that we can work together to minimize the damage we face in these difficult situations, remembering that this is a temporary situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope we'll come by to see the light soon enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u158	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u159	A respectable president. Political is a game played with other people's lives and money. Sometimes the game is played for everyone and sometimes only for those who play the game. In most cases, however, the game is in the interest of a particular group, which can be positive and negative. Are the poor improving or strengthening the situation? Is increasing the democratic rights of all people or protecting nature? Or are you just thinking about your own political asshole? A recent quote from the chairman of a political organization showed how the good things that most people agree about are sacrificed in political entertainment. It said, by permission of the President: ▪ The number of undisputed cases that the government will bring forward will be more severe for the interests of the government. This statement unmistakably reminds us of another earlier comment made by another president of a political organization, by permission of a president: ▪ I made all cases suspicious and followed the hunter's rule that you can't just throw a fly that you think is beautiful, because you never know what a fly will take. So I took up all my cases, even though I was in my heart in agreement with them, and I wheeled them because I viewed government opposition as a position of government. Both are examples of an attitude in the political game that leads to worse results for all, since good things that could improve people's lives are less accepted and money is spent in an unnecessary argument that has the sole purpose of making a person look better than a person who is ashamed. A recent discussion of a pack of three energy is a crystal clear example of such a virtual argument. It took a straw to distract from the corruption of ambassadors and debates about penises and bodies. Was there a better opportunity than a relatively complex matter about energy resources and foreigners? One of the worst logical cases in the history of Congress cost tens of millions, yet it yielded to political failures of politicians. How sad is that? You see, political is a game played with other people's lives and money and in the kind of emergency we are facing today is more than ever before. Thus, it is necessary to remind you of the extremes the politicians can offer before they say: Everyone is doing their best. I repeat, they're all doing their best. This is my assessment of the reactions and measures proposed. However, it is different whether the best is enough, and it seems to each one about it. Since the start of Covid, the situation has changed very much and easily to say that the initial reactions could have been better off from the information we have received since then. When the government's first reaction was presented, there were signs of serious conditions and the words "thanker" to do more than less ◯ are already quite empty. Many reporters have called for more extensive measures, but the government has drawn down certain lines, and only time will reveal whether these lines are sufficiently progressive to deal with the situation and whether steps will be taken in time or not. The economic hole facing us surprised many because of its sudden onset and the reason for its formation. In the past, serious epidemics have never occurred at this magnitude in the international community that has developed over the last relatively few years. No one seems to have any idea how to react to health, community and economic issues, at least depending on how different the reactions have been around the world. In some countries, there have been very different reactions with frightening results and very effective results in others, e.g. Here in Iceland. Economic reactions have also varied from country to country, yet economic measures, such as the plague, have spread to some extent between countries. In this way, there is a common reason for government action in this land that they are simply similar to that in other lands. They're just a little bit of a reason because they don't follow why they're being used. Either that or it's the same procedure that was used in the last crash that went well. What a fine price it is to grapple in the probationary bank and to draw out the tools that work! As we are repeatedly told of sources, however, there are no two Great Depressions. There are different reasons for each crisis and different consequences. That means that although a pipe was a good tool last time, the size of the pipe may have to be adjusted to help solve today's problems. Today's biggest problem in the economy is the hole left behind by the tourist industry. This sector had become enormous in the Icelandic economy for the pandemic and is most influential. It is a industry that had quite much tax appeal to help build up, and it actually blew out as it did. It will very likely take some time, though, for the tourism to reach the same peaks as before we cannot wait until then, but we need to find something else to do. That's where we come up with Pirata's focus on innovation. In view of the greater part of the budget board, a section on economic resistance is referred to as a recent synonym for the shape of cluster policy development and digital access to the target. Both suggestions are on the expansion of innovation throughout the country and the availability of innovation. Both suggestions offer a wide variety of opportunities to cope with the economic conditions that we will face in the years to come. There will be innovations all over the country where both the public and the general sectors meet and can use the available opportunities, where the Blue Bank can be looked at at in Thyatira or by the scientific parks in Watermam, and from everything in between. In order to make use of innovation and to curb unemployment, it would be reasonable to take a step toward these two interpretation proposals. They need to build a situation across a country where people can get together, companies, and individuals, and use the facilities that are accessible to them in order to do more and more. It is a key factor in the community restoration by Covid and future construction. There's no money in this raise, but it's a call to come to the next package which, according to any message, is coming soon, and we'll see how it's gonna be. I'm signing more of the committee's opinion, mostly for two reasons. To begin with, as I said before, because I think everyone is trying to do their best. I think it might be possible to do better than you can just take steps in the right direction, even if they're small. Some people may feel a little larger than I say, but size degrees differ in people's minds, okay? For the same reason, I have a change in the size of a smaller item, where more and larger steps are put forward. In addition to that, Porta's council has yet to make further adjustments. Of course, the suggestions Pirats, along with others, are still available for the first amount of funds, but since the greater part has already rejected them, there is no need to spend the duration of the council in repetition of them. Maybe it's someone who thinks I'm thinking more of the part. If so, I would just point out my explanations at the beginning of the speech on how the political bitch can work. It's easy to just be upset and pretend to know better, but the real thing is that nobody really knows better. At least we'll get at least one. not much information to work with. This means that while members of the administrations may have trusted stewards to offer intelligent suggestions to the council on how to handle this situation, I do not trust the government's advisers at all to do so. I believe that the reaction of the government is the smallest form of agreement that it can agree on, and that's where it resides. This does not necessarily mean that the suggestions are bad, just that they are limited. That is why I can agree with them and, at the same time, contribute to their restoration, and that is my reserve for this opinion. The matter itself is not necessarily something I can claim to be enough, but it is considered to be what it takes for me to agree with it. It is based on a hope that this will do us well and that we will be able to respond in time in the future. That's where I'm like the more part to guess something. You see, there is never an explanation of how much these actions should be done, only hoping that they will do. I hope so too, but I have as much as the greater part have no basis to tell them whether or not they'll do it with just a guess. So I also find that further adjustments are made, as previously said: Now is the time to do more than less. I was going to go over a little change in Pirata's council. It is twofold, one way to cover the health costs that have come from the epidemic of the health system. We received a memo on the dissociation at the expense of over 5.3 billion that obviously comes to the hands of the Alliedis and I don't understand why there is a hole not yet to be shut. That's another suggestion. The other motion turns to the pension of social security. In the 69th. Social security laws show that the pensions of social security should be increased by either the higher, the higher pay development or the index of consumer prices. The problem is that at the beginning of the year each index price will be predicted and the pay rate will be, and in most cases, this has been predicted. This means that basic pensions have nearly always been below both pay and the index price of consumer consumption. Now on May 1, the members of Parliament and the Ministers received a raise of 6.3% based on figures of pay development for 2018, 6.3%. In the same year, 2018, those who receive a pension under social insurance law received a 4.7% increase because of the anticipated trend in pay and not a real pay development. This happens year after year. A cumulative increase due to this, for microdotal areas at any distance, is 2007, which is already the last major system change, more than 30%. There's a 30% rise that's about 22 billion. Of course, on the exact terms of the government's pay, members and ministers's office have increased the cost of social security should be followed in the same way. I remind you of what I mentioned at the outset: Are the poor getting better? That's what I said. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs and referred to the famous comments made by Mahatma Gandhir and Kim Larsens as to the importance of poverty in the government. When you see this obvious difference in how calculating for those who have been good profiting them while calculating for those who have the worst not profit, when these are actually the same calculations, men will fall short on the projects that the council has to deal with. Other factors that Pirats have emphasized beyond innovation, which must put forth great effort to increase the number of jobs. It was said that more than 50,000 people were on unemployment benefits in the whole or in part, and much of their underlying jobs, in the tourism business, are not coming back soon. There is also another factor that we should generally aim to achieve, not having so few professions that make up more of Iceland's economy; the tourist industry, the aluminium industry, and the sea route, not all the eggs in the same basket. That is why, in its own time, innovation would be a fourth support. We must start to take care of it, and fortunately, more part has become available, and the council has listened to people's counsel in this very situation to contribute more to innovation than the government has ever done. I think the government's only gonna be pleased with that, at least I've heard the highest. Minister of innovation is celebrating increased financial and financial resources for that category, as the opportunities are definitely there. We saw this in the funds placed in the Research Fund, to Ranni. You hear a number of applications in the person who was previously rejected, though they had one of the best grades, for they did not have enough money to finance all the applications that are now behind them to be strong. The result of this will be very great in the years to come. We need to be careful not to think of this as a monopolitan solution to this situation. It must be a step in this and that we can provide the basis for this fourth support, the diverse support, which should, in my opinion, be the most important support ever. Then we will become more flexible and sustainable about the economic catastrophes that have often hit our major sectors and put us in trouble. With varied jobs and a variety of economics, we will be better able to cope with the depressions we face. Finally, Pirantar and I have proposed a bill to stop forced sales. It may not be necessary right now, but it will be needed. I hope not, but it is not likely that it will be needed, at all, if going ahead. It is good to know immediately that the safety net is in place because we know that the last action was too late. A correction that was tried to do afterwards was completely out of the map. People who had lost their home had nothing to do with anything, but those who survived the storm were then corrected, i.e. Those who really needed it. True, she was justified by the premise that there was a certain failure and that it was all right to improve, but not everyone received that correction, and that is what was unfair. Perhaps the most unfair of those who could receive or were to receive correction was those who needed it least. I would not belittle the fact that those who were corrected were definitely entitled, but the greater the right was for those who did not receive correction but had lost everything, including students and tenants who did not receive anything. That's why we need to watch this right away, bring a law to stop our forced sales, that it's a break in that field. When that pause is lifted, another network will also be removed, where government sales even grab people's legal homes and become a creditor until the person is able to find a refund. In fact, this is a free operation for a government fund largely because government funds cover the loan or the forced sale that may even be a capital loss, since loans can be sold on subsidiary, as they happened last time, and then they get back the funding once the loan is paid. It's a very cheap operation. These are several factors, innovation, health, home safety. These are the things we need to signal immediately that the Council has finished before we are in some trouble, even at once in the summer, where the council may need to be called on in the middle of a vacation, whenever it will be, not as I believe it would necessarily need a vacation in this condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u160	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator's speech. I had no intention of coming back, but just at the end of the day. A member of the forced sales asked questions. First, what do you see? A senator of events? Hv. A senator said it would be a cheap operation. How cheap from that stage as a dog. A senator pulls up? This can be quite complicated legal in terms of property and other matters, so I wanted to hear more about the methodology. It's a good idea, of course, in the light of experience. I won't hide it, but if he could get right into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u161	A respectable president. At first, we hope that the actions of the government and the council will lead to the conclusion that, as most people do, they do not have to sell extort, borrowers resort to it. If there's a break for forced halls, with law from the Council, it gives us more room to complete all the problems between loanrs and borrowers with some kind of funding and such. When the shelter is lifted, it is hoped that most will be left behind, but there may be some. At that point, the prospective lender, i.e. The bank, the appropriate housing of forced auctions, and the state uses premium or something to buy the property, and divides them into loans in which the person has a legal home, and becomes a borrower again, directly from the state through a pay deposit or some kind of contract that the State holds for a long time, a store loan can do this or something, until the owner can make a debt or reimburse a loan from an ordinary lender. By then, the government has bought out the loans and has sold the loan back, and all that under it should in effect be on zero, perhaps the financial cost, or some loan that will be completely lost, or something like that. However, if the person falls away, the State remains with the property, or something similar, so the property is behind it so that it should be a very inexpensive operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u162	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. The senator's answer. I'm not further in considering this, but it's an interesting approach to a subject that can be complicated. I'm not talking about when the politics begin to approach it here in the field of lawgivers. Let's have it. It's an interesting approach. Then you wonder about the time limit when you are in such a crisis, let's hope that this will be temporary and not lead to a mass collapse, which would require a very dramatic operation. Where would that be? A senator with such a period of time draws his limit? Of course, in this world, people are in trouble, inevitable, and have made a commitment to treaties that go wrong. We need to have some law code on it. There would have to be some limit when the state steps in like this. Is that just an infinite resort, or what would be the limit on that diagnosis? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u163	A respectable president. It is very difficult to predict the limit, but it is likely for several years. Whether they would be two, four, five, or ten, there's not much in the context. The amount of money under the state due to these measures would be small, relative to the amount being set up in a company and trying to set a wide range of laws on how to use them. So I don't have a problem handling the legal bills, considering the cost. Once we're in the comparison, I don't see exactly any problem with this that can't be solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u164	Mr. President. We're dealing with one piece of what we're starting to call a case of action coming from the government and this package is number two of them. He's considerably smaller than the first, and maybe he's disappointed. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson covered the committee and the work of the Committee, and I would like to start by saying that I think the committee did a good job, called in many guests, and the committee was given many opinions. We talked back and forth about various things, and the bill has changed slightly, i.e. The amount of money to be used, and if it seems right to me, 500 million were added to this package, which was 13 billion cubic feet [13 billion] away, so that it did not change. The report discusses a number of things the committee might have done, and it would be necessary to do more, pointing to, but not to taking greater steps. I'm an emissary on the budget board, and I have an opinion in the sense that I approve, but at the same time I do--it can hardly be called a warning; it may not be formally correct--a comment by me supporting these suggestions, that I don't think they go far enough to deal with the problems we face. The economic situation is certainly difficult, and uncertain, and the ideas I put forth, and at the entrance, there are in itself not very many, there are few that do not. We didn't want a lot of numbers, but we didn't want to get anything straight. Our ideas go primarily out in the effort to ensure that employment life continues and unemployment will be as low as possible. That's the most important thing. We know unemployment has been fired up right now. Thousands are on unemployment records and part - time reforms and are trying to prevent it from becoming permanent, of course, because it is so dangerous. It's what you're afraid of, that if unemployment becomes extensive and it grows, we'll be facing a lot more people than we've ever seen that will not return to the labour market and that would be very sad. That is why we here suggest that insurance costs be changed in order to be generally reduced to six months, so that there will be 75% of what is now, but for the next 12 months, it will be only a quarter of what is now when people come to work by unemployment. Now I know perfectly well that when we talked about a so-called bandorm and he was taken care of here earlier today, there were suggestions for this being in that bill cut down. I think, however, and I am convinced that the government, the greater part, will offer suggestions that go in this direction. I'm totally convinced of that, and that's why I think it's very important that we turn away from creating room for that action. We also stress it, and it also aims to maintain a level of employment, to add the funds aimed at putting students into work. Already the proclamation has been made of operations to place 2 billion in making summer work for the government. We want to add a billion to that pot. We want to expand it to reach the general market as well. It is no less necessary to hire students than it is for students to have financial needs. For some years, many students have worked for the same company, are familiar with them, and are just as much work as they need to be solved. In addition, going this way will make the less expensive jobs available to the State, since the government is obviously paying for its work. It will pay half or half to the general market but 100% to those who will be with the State itself. It's obvious. Finally, we suggest that we make a lot of money for transport construction around the country and here in the capital area, especially for the city line. We need to make money in the design, preparation, offering out, and speeding up tasks so that the next step will be ready for action that can be done quickly and safely. This is important not only because we need it for a long future but also because it will create a job for many people. All this information I've mentioned above is designed to stimulate your job life, increase your activity, and speed up your business wheels as quickly as any of them can, and at the same time suppress the misery of unemployment. As I said earlier in my speech, the great danger I think we should do anything to prevent is that we start looking forward to permanent unemployment, long - term unemployment. We know this from many other lands. It is a very difficult task when people are long out of work, to get back into the job market, and thus become active in the community. But as soon as we're looking at what needs to be done in a shorter period of time, which certainly is a good solution, we need to be bold, and we have to look to the future for a long time. That's why we've worked very hard on doing all we can to stimulate research, innovation, and technological progress in this country. You see, and I've often talked about it in this chair, that we're always saying this to ourselves, that's always being said to us by our advisers from abroad, and from where they come: you've got to make more money for the economy, you've got to increase the variety. You can't rely so much on a few monotonous jobs. But we are always prone to fall into the trap of forgetting that good advice and to joyfully accept it when articles spring up and become so populous in our economic activities that we're in a lot of trouble. By taking up the innovation process, we are creating a much more varied way of life, which will be much better equipped to cope with various types of traumas. That's why we've said: "We're supposed to spend a lot more money on this. We need to do it now. That is why we suggest that there be more money in research funds, more than any part of it suggests, also in the Technical Development Fund and Investment Fund. It was in the media today that the Technical Development Fund was, for example, in the media. As part of 800 million, there have never been more applications. Visitors to the Committee who spoke of all this funds said: Our distribution rate is way too low. We are rejecting assignments that are worthy of a career. They could use much more money. Now we need to be bold, and we need to pump our money into these articles. They may not be returning their jobs tomorrow, but they won't be long before they start to arrive and return money and change Icelandic society. Here we must be bold and think in the long run. I'm sorry, despite all the efforts in this direction, I don't think it's going well enough on these subjects. That's why we suggest that we put money in this fund and then add some 600 million to the Technical Development Fund, 600 million in the Research Fund, and 50 million in the Investment Fund because we have to hatch more companies and projects. Another thing about innovation, earlier today or yesterday, we were doing the blessed duel, where we also covered innovation. It certainly led to this - and therefore to rejoice - to take steps to increase the payment of companies through tax discounts for tasks that have been evaluated for reimbursement of taxes, that is well. Sadly, humans did not want to have these actions intermittently, but they waited for them that are not what innovation, evolution, and science need. They need to know that they can rely on their long - term support system. Another thing that we have brought on is that we have many innovation companies that are far in the process of funding themselves for the future, or some future, that are now extremely difficult. In this context, it should be noted that there is a fund that is now to be formed, that is to be passed on by the government, and that is fine. At the same time, the so - called support of Kría has been discussed. This time, there is no funding for this project. That project is urgent, and I know that the government is interested in making suggestions to that effect. Sadly, though, the funds given there are far too small. This will work out that the State promotes protests against investors in order to keep these companies going. That is why we propose a change proposal that allows us to be authorized to the highest level of industrial innovation. The minister of innovation has said that these matters should be handled, given 3 billion warrants for financing on these leged - up companies and has already been accepted. It is now very difficult to see whether 3 billion are enough or are too little. But we can say that if this is too much, the warrant will not be new. If it's too small, we'll add a very modest way out here, but it's very important, because it's only once so that the innovation companies now face tens of them. If these companies, many of which have been in years and years of building up, lie down now, that damage will not be improved, so it has to be done immediately. That is why I suggest that we agree here at the council to provide this warrant so that once these companies can be started to save. It's been wanting to burn, and I know that it's not because of some ill will, that the actions, though some of which have been announced to individuals and businesses, take far too long to be carried out. We're talking about a bridge loan. It was first today that the first agreement between the Federal Bank and the Bank was made, several weeks after it was announced, and the bank says it will take weeks more to make it work. We must try to make enough effort to make sure that these actions are not just promises but will be carried out as soon as possible, since there is little good for the promises of something that will happen later. I am convinced that the council will respond to these suggestions, which are very moderate. They're wise, and they'll bring us a better community as we go ahead and reduce the expected damage if we don't do things right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u165	A respectable president. We're discussing the fundraiser, and I have to say just as it is that after the news of Channel 2 tonight, I am completely shocked by how a company can behave. It is quite surprising that at the same time as biofuels are being calmed to save companies, homes - and less homes - a company that seems to be going to make 7 billion profits to take the hatches into the state fund and ask for survival of 35 to 40 million. One percent of them paid for these benefits for two months. I'm just asking if it's not time to do what was done in the past. Then it was the state insurance agency, and the loud discussion that disability was so corrupt that they were cheating on the insurance agency's benefits and that it was vanishing out billions, which then turned out to be just empty nonsense. We can do exactly what an insurance agency did back then, create a trip button, and place it at the Ministry of finance. We can also do as the minister pointed out so that everybody calls 1717 and lets know when companies act this completely irresponsible. That would be the best, and I'm sure that they in 1717 could gather it and bring it to the Ministry of finance. We have to, and we need to stop this. To say this, I'm going to turn to being president of the Gangs, Inga Sæland, second vice president of the Board of Justice, a book of this budget, by permission of the President, word for word: ▪ Although the changes in the majority of the items are about many positive things, they do not go far enough to secure support for the most vulnerable social groups, social security workers, jobless and poor families. People living in poverty for the Covid-19 pandemic are not mentioned by name in these so - called government rescue bags. This group of people, like others, has suffered the loss of income and the increase in income because of the epidemic. The government groups refuse to extend their penalties or to provide similar resources for the pensioner. Nevertheless, they find money for the private media owned by rich people with direct contact with political parties. Then, in the Commission's opinion, financial contributions to the United States are expected to negotiate their provision for Iceland's Medical Insurance. This is a single - change operation designed to meet part of the loss of income caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. So it is very important that the payment is immediate and direct so as not to be impaired in the ministry. A further aid organization beyond 25 million is needed. K. which is expected in the Committee. Based on the hundreds of billions of dollars to be put on rescue operations, it is amazing that eating is not expected to be given to the hungry. For example, consider Iceland's Family Help in a relationship that is now active every day with rations. We must make sure that all those who provide food can function with full force as we walk through this dark valley. How sad it is, then, that the government does not intend to take preventive measures to prevent large increases in the head position of the secure housing bar! During this uncertainty period, it is necessary to place 2.5% roof on the index price of consumers, and it is possible that a large number of people will lose their home, as was the case here in 2008. We have to figure it out, a respectable president, that insurance is bad, especially insurance on apartment loans. I can't believe the government isn't going to learn from the previous government failures to collapse and take insurance from mortgages. They can attach it to 2.5%, e.g. in the first six months. Their Jag faith in the absence of inflation was recently stopped when the bank predicted 0.1% of inflation, which ended in 0.5%, five times more. Now comes the Secret Bank and says that only 1.4% of inflation is at worst. If it does the same thing as the previous bank and the inflation is five times as it will be 7%. I'm just saying, Guð bless your homes. In this context, we may be surprised at why more is being done for disability on the other hand. Where, in all the few that have passed, is a word destroyed by older citizens? Where's a dollar for an older citizen? There is not a single comment about helping older citizens who are the worst in this series of crown viruses. This is a disgrace to the highest authorities because we know of the promise of the head of the Independence Party to older citizens in his day, where he promised to correct the masquerade back to 2009. But it was only before the election, not when he was in power. We have an amazing system of discrimination against people, discrimination against the worst. We've created some amazing numbers; 250,000, 290,000, 335,000, 400,000, 700,000, and somehow we've set down that the lowest should try to reach 250,000. There are 70% disability. Next comes 290,000 k, and already the number of the unemployed is closer to 30,000,400,000, even 50,000. The minimum wage is 335,000, and it is necessary to fight with the mouth and catch for keeping the biographer contract in place where the target is to attack him as well. A request was made in these budgets to install something more for the poor and older citizens. It would have been slowly and would have been good, as tried, to arrive at a hundred thousand bucks. ...employment, taxation and inadequacies, senior citizens and disability, the worst of them, this summer. It's not in the picture. KPMG reports that by 2019 the income of foreign tourists was 470 billion. It's almost all gone. The report predicts a reduction in currency income that could study up to 330 billion dollars. It's a huge amount of money. It tells us that with the same going on, they're cut off to the country's currency reserve. One factor that could be 25% of the population's total income. Iceland's damages would be more than just other economic systems we compare with because tourism generates a larger part of the economy here. That's what we do all the time. We've created a monster that's a tourist service and it collapsed. We're creating a monster that's fish fueled. It may take just one infection until it collapses. We've got to start looking for an equalizing, finding and creating new jobs, new income companies. Government officials were kissing off having a social business package in this up to 8.8 billion, but they forget who the bank tax was. It was 11 billion. If we look at this in practical terms, they are talking about a pack of 2,300 billion rescues. What, then, are we talking about? Only 10% of it is 201⁄230 billion. Would it be unnatural for 10% of it to go to the worst, that we would just fit the worst in society? Yes, they will place 22.5 million, 25 million who study the need, in food assistance, to relief agencies. Earlier today, I told of the church's relief agency's increase of 60% in March and April, as well as a great increase in the need for medicine. This tells us the whole story, how desperate the need is. But it doesn't mean anything to discuss it. They don't listen to the government. A financial committee called for suggestions from the IBI, which answered with a proposal for an increase in basic life, a very reasonable proposal. With the permission of the President, I'm going to read a story from the Commission of the Quantum Community: A U.S. request to respond to the unprecedented situation in the Icelandic economy followed by Covid-19 was presented at a meeting of budgetary bodies. Here's an ENTER proposal for an increase in the production of microenergy and rehabilitation services. This is a minimum requirement. The unprecedented conditions that we are living in today call for a new thought and approach, where people must have their best interests at first. With the rise in biofuels in agreement with minimum wage, we are working more quickly out of the present challenges. The lack of self - control during the past decade must not continue under the shelter of the present crisis. Now it's 80 yards. K. in the microenergy and minimums and looks of the currency of pensions are further reduced, after nearly standing in place during the terms of the current government. The disability spending has been greatly reduced by other groups, such as labour market pay development, day - to - day minimum insurance, and unemployment benefits. In order to reduce inequities and ensure survival, it is necessary that the funds of the social security system follow the pay raises of collective agreements. Basic pensions rise by 41,000. in 2020. The target of stratosphere increased by the same level of centenarians at the same time. The proposal is in accordance with BSRB proposal for an increase in disability and rehabilitation in the BSRB declaration of Congress 726 and 724.156. This is an enormously modest requirement, especially in view of the fact that we have just increased our salary of senators, ministers, and other top public employees by up to 70,000 and up to another hundred thousand. There is no money to raise 41,000, but there is money to raise some 70,000 and over 100,000 dollars. in a month before, which is especially needed. This is their righteousness, or should we say injustice? Sadly, in the current crisis, apathy in terms of disability is complete and is also apathy toward older citizens. We are in the amazing situation that somehow we overlook human rights. We do not follow the Convention of Human Rights and do not ensure that everyone is equal to a host of shelter, food, clothing, medicine, and medical care. Unfortunately, the fact that what has been forgotten in the situation as it is now is that more people have suffered from disability because of waiting for the longest in all kinds of action. I'm going to have to spit on it, but I'm going to see how much it's gonna be because it's already starting with perhaps some of the rights of a lot of things, about a huge angle in the state's budget. But what does that usually mean? I say for my part that if it is what it has been before, then there will be more to those who should, least of all, micropunchers, senior citizens, low-payers, unemployed. It has been shown that they have never been able to go up in a crisis, and then, when the good ones hit, they are forgotten. We can best see how we handled the salary of members of Congress. That's where we left behind a pay number. It stands, as we know, clearly in the 69th paragraph. Social security legislation that the improvement of social security should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of an index price. It's never done. That's why last year's districtors received much less than we did, members of the U.S. Marshals. The situation of micropier and older citizens and the worst is especially better in the country. We know about Smokeynes' position. The epidemic was an extremely difficult situation, unemployment, and growth. In this regard, we should not forget that we are to protect our children, long - suffering children, disabled children. We have a responsibility to protect them, but in order to protect them, we must also protect their parents. Now, even both parents are unemployed and completely altered. We have to identify and find out where the need is most and help is. We have to take exactly the same policy as the older citizen, the disabilityd, the disabled children, the baby family we're taking on business. It's always said that we have to save our companies to protect their jobs, but it's also necessary to save their homes to protect their jobs. We know what happened in the collapse, and we know that there were about tens of thousands of homes just taken from people. My biggest fear is that it will be that way again because only the latest inflation shot was 2,030 billion. Not many of these things happen to send the bill to your home. They are sending $2,3,300 billion of the world's budget into homes, and for what? To save the banks or state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u166	Madam President. We're gonna discuss a two-way budget bill here. We've just given up a budget bill, which is very special, and I don't have to explain the reasons for that in the General Meeting's symposium on this day. I think it's important in this discussion now that we're trying to figure out the bigger picture we're facing when we're discussing and holding the money. In my mind, the overall picture is that we have here the value of budgets that were approved in advance before the last year, which, in fact, expected a compromise on the business of the state funds. From that time, with what we turned into a budget bill alone, there are e.g. is 18 billion. in an increase of investments in 2020, which means that we have entered the 100 billion investments on the part of the State. In this financial bill, we also had increased contributions to various projects. There's been a lot of discussions about innovation and technology, and we were raising a lot of money. We also made more money for the parish plans, for the tourist trade, and so on, all to stimulate, all to initiate an investment, all to create jobs. We are in an unexpected situation, a pandemic, and we create the unexpected problems we face. It is not simply a matter of dealing with this problem, and it is not as simple as it is to be taken out of the hat, it is to the nations and societies to feel how they can best defend themselves, to enable companies to have strong support once they are released and we can begin to create valuables and create the community we know. I think this is the picture of what we are facing. It has been announced on at least one more budget bill before long, and it is actually born after actions belonging to this budget bill are presented and further implemented. That is why I would like to attend this site in a discussion about the two fundraisers bill to make a special statement because they said earlier in my discussion that everyone was disappointed with this additional bill and that this is not the case. There have simply been more than fewer, and this was made clear in the reviews. The budget was received, generally welcome the action taken, although it is reasonable to understand the ways and methods, etc. I think it's important that we conduct ourselves in the way we do here, pretty gently, or responsibility. That is why I would like to give a witness, a respected president, to the Committee opinion of a greater proportion of the legal committee, as we were at our job trying to figure out the economic status and state funds in the situation we are in. It is certainly not a simple task, but it is important that we at any given time try to paint a complete picture of what is going on. I, a respected president, allow me to read from a committee list greater than that of economics and trends and scenarios: There is strong uncertainty about economic developments both in the region and in the global economy. Normally, a financial agenda for the next five years would be discussed at the council, but uncertainty makes it difficult for fortune - tellers to do so. A successful policy has been removed, and a new updated plan is not available, and it may not be possible when it is practical to plan for a new financial policy and plan. After the epidemic, economic forecasts have not been reexamined. March 25th, issue of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania was published by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. two stage photos that are partly based on OECD stage films on global interest. From that stage, the prospects have been darked, and most evidence suggests that the economic crisis will be more and more chronic than previously thought. As a result, the scenes were updated in the beginning of April. The focal point picture estimates 4% of the economy contracting product and services by 18.7%, unemployment averaged 6.1% and reduced private consumption by 1.7%. The darker stage is a further decrease of 6.9%, a 27.2% decrease in total economic depression, a 7.5% unemployment rate, and 4% loss of private consumption. The bank predicts that in spite of economic turmoil, in the face of a small change in inflation, or in 1.4% between years. The latening bank will continue to work on the economic impacts of the epidemic and new scenarios will be presented on May 20, 2011. In the opinion of the committee, we also witness to the World Bank Fund, by permission of a president: The World Bank Fund recently published a revised economic forecast for the global economy and for a unique state that covers the current year and the next year. That is the first projection of AGS after the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. This would include 3% decrease in global economy, which would be the greatest reduction since the Great Depression of the 3rd and 1930's. In contrast, global economic growth was reduced by 0.1% during the 2009 financial crisis. The World Bank Fund's base view suggests that the economic impacts of the epidemic will be temporary and disappear into the late part of this year. The next year, powerful economic growth is predicted, or 5.8%, according to the prophecy. It is emphasized that there is far greater uncertainty in today's regular year trip and that there may be an increase in the size of the contractions in the current year. In Europe, economic growth is estimated to be negative in the range of 32/10%, across countries. We publish in our committee study of the economic climate between individual countries, which I may not consider further in this talk, but it only points to the fact that we are dealing with an incredibly powerful reversal of economic issues. There is therefore every reason to, more dignified President, that we are not expanding our national spending thoughtlessly or virtually without responsibility and faster than we do and now is enough. I think it's a good lesson, and I'd like to consider that, according to a forecast that the Ministry of finance has been working for the next five years on government funds, we could simply get into the position of increasing the debt of state funds so much that it will be up to 50% of national product in 2025. This is the task we face, how we will be able to stick together to keep our society, our economy, the work of people, and the building up of valuable things, and therefore the basis for us to run our community as we have done and how we are going to take longer to see Kingdom interests develop. It is not bright if we fail to achieve the rotation we need, according to the scenarios that fortune - tellers have just published us. More people who sent them what they wanted. The budget panels and followed up, have also set up stage photos on their own terms. From this year onward, there are stage shots of a tourist, predicting as many as 13% of economic contractions as possible in the world scene, with the expected release of tourists and their habitats over the past year. This is the big job. That is why we can never place enough emphasis on the budgetary products that are prioritized by the government, and the greater part of the Council and the Council are in an effort to deal with the situation from day to day. On the other hand, I think, a respectable president, when our response is taken together in a budget bill alone and in the currently discussed financial bill, is that we are in many ways reaching this project in a very responsible way. I'm just going to refer to one more thing I'm going to refer to, in addition to, as I was doing here on the increase of money to public investments, which is primarily in the aspects of society that can last longer, and we can have a fine benefit and prepare our future and growth and the growth of our community, which is the emphasis we put on innovation and research here. I believe that she is extremely important right now. More of it. As a matter of fact, legal committees make very little changes in the provided financial bill, but they do, for example. the change to continue raising funds to research and thus to add to basic research. No matter what steps we will make for innovation, and to improve the work of innovation and application in this area, it is important for us to keep tight on basic research as most areas as possible. Hence, more than a portion of the budget suggests making adjustments in order to improve it. I think, a respectable president, at this point in the discussion, I cannot explain more clearly what we're dealing with with the terms we address these days, and we generals are working on. But in view of the emphasis on innovation and application in research, I'd like us to reflect on just what we've done in the past few days and weeks, and how much changes people have been facing, whether in the workplace, in education or in health or in whatever area we've been dealing with in our community, e.g. how senators have changed their way of doing things, not completely going back. We're in an amazingly short period of time, I think, of creating a lot of social changes. That's why I just wanted to bring it up, a respectable president, at the end of the day, that it matters in what the government is to invest in for a long time. The government has, for example. ... with good luck to support and stimulate investment in telecommunications, and I believe that, as I stand in the public speakers here on May night, the failure to come to the money spent to further the communication system in this country could have made the crisis even deeper. A respectable president. We can discern ways, we can agree or disagree that there may be more to do here and there, but all in all, I think we have in this country a bright future that is before, but it really matters how we are being held.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u167	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I wanted to introduce only what is in the process of innovation, research, and knowledge. It says that there is no new fund, a feeding fund, and a set of 500 million. K. in the fund, which, of course, is fine. However, another fund, which has been a innovation and progress fund for agriculture for over half a century, is being laid down. This is a nice fund and has divided the countryside of this country and farmers very important. It provides a wide range of concentrations for agriculture, some of which do not directly depend on food production, but are important in the wide range of national trust. It is very important that those projects not be left out when this new fund is established. The sea has supported projects that are not directly related to food production but also education and reeducation, and it has been particularly important that farmers in addition to traditional production and funding have contributed to many new jobs in rural areas. It is open - minded that has marked the work of this fund. I wanted to ask you what. In view of all the experience this fund has, a senator will agree with this, and now it is important to get this money to work as soon as possible, if that is the case, to put it in the money already available, i.e. The seabed and then the agricultural sector, i.e. Production fund. Wouldn't that be the way the money would have been used right away rather than start over and start a new fund and everything that goes with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u168	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his question. It may now be that soon another of the fine funds laid down, the product fund of farming, the past. I know that treasure well, we were peers. I also know pretty good about the AVS fund and the projects he's taken care of. I gave a talk on this matter of Congress earlier in this issue that I believe in many respects to be a success. It is as if, in the care of a greater part of the employment committee, the handling of the jobs is taken care of. A senator mentioned here that had made a difference. I just want to use this opportunity, a respectable president, to say that the product fund of agriculture at the time, when we dealt with massive overproduction, was extremely important. The fact is, though, that in recent years, we had greatly reduced donations to the fund, so he was no longer the powerful fund he was in his early days. Would it have been more correct to channel money into them if they had not? I'm not necessarily sure it would have been the right way. We are here trying to integrate more energy from marine and rural projects, thus creating a uniting and exerting power out of these funds. With regard to basic research and research funded by the Manufacturer's Fund, we can take that discussion further and later. However, just as with basic research, a majority of the budgetary committees are focusing on their changes, basic research on agriculture and on the fishing grounds is of utmost importance. I would suggest that. A senator, when he later makes an answer here, is there also a question about how the industry itself can support basic research and research in its field?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u169	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answer is excellent. What I'm worried about is the fact that I'm putting extra money in two - 500 million, now a lot of money - but that is, in fact, a single - trade operation. We don't know what comes a year later, and I guess it's time to start cutting down to meet the huge angle we're seeing on the government budget, and then there's the danger that there's two important jobs fighting for little money, i.e. The fishing and agriculture. It's a concern to me if at this point, in this situation, it wouldn't have been most successful, to place money in them immediately and to use them for creative projects and construction instead of going this way. These are the views I have had in my discussion, and it's good to get past it. A senator who knows this sect very well, his viewpoint. I think it takes at least to make sure that the projects produced by the Manufacturer's Fund will continue to be kept in line for the settlements he has carried out and for the important work he has done in this regard. You fear that it will come about with something to wash out when attention needs to be given at the same time, i.e. on the fishing road and what turns it. These are things I've wondered about, and it seemed natural to hear the attitude of a boy. A senator who has a lot of knowledge about the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u170	A respectable president. I'm getting closer to thinking. A senator's claim that they are entitled to do so. On the other hand, we cannot say that at the end of this transition, there will be some conflict. It has been funded in a specific way, and in part it will last for a longer time and possibly as part of a contract agreement, e.g. We farmers. But what I consider to be the main target of the new Food Fund is simply the fact that one of our main resources is food production from each of the articles, whether by means of fishing or by agriculture, and then by trade. There's just a lot of parishion in it, huh? A senator, to activate these forces together so that we keep our hands around the high chain, from the resource we are using, whether it is the grass that swarms around the country or the sea, and then through the processing process, we are making more valuable from the food we are producing and thereby promoting more innovation. That's the big means we have, and that makes it a very positive step in my mind to combine these funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u171	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says this is being approached in a responsible way. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the side issues we have as a modification proposal, this is a small question of justice relating to, for example. but during the same year, social security increased by 4.7%, despite the high pay rates of the year in the public market of 6.45% and should have been increased by the same year compared to 69.3.g. in the Social Security Act, approximately 6.45%, and is a fall-of-the-life of 1.75%. In any case, when we know who real wages have become but under social security laws - not under the law but under the interpretation of social security laws, we are predicting the level of GDP or pay development. Each of these real pay development or GDPs will not affect the growth of social security. And only six times out of 23 times since 1997, the increase in pensions according to social security has been greater than either pay development or GDP. From now on, it is now now more than 51%. In fact, an assessment of how much pay development or price development will be at the beginning of the year depends on what it will be at the end of the year. That's how much time it takes. I wondered if it wasn't natural for us to adopt the exact formula for this group according to this law, which we do for members of Congress and Ministers, who say to do it by the end of the year when we know the salary and prices of development.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u172	A respectable president. Thank you, too. A senator's inquiry. He spoke that comparison. I want less of it. A member of the council suggests that in a discussion of the salary of the Generals, Ministers, and officials, it is usually brought to some delicate light. First of all, I want to review and remind you, even if I don't have a percentage on rhythms, just like that. A senator seems to have, in fact, separated himself from the general pay development of the country. Is it normal to adopt the same formula between these groups that he makes here a subject and set it together like this side by side, I simply want to say, "Have you been broken in these waters?" Is this the question of whether this rule is any more accurate than any other? There's only another discussion I think I'm ready to take here in a short answer to the dog. A senator. At any given time, the pay development of the general body may be put in a negative light. It is a sport of some politicians to do so. With this, I'm not saying in any way that there's any way I'm willing to say that there's any way I'm willing to see how the development of social security has been in that situation. I just want to say that since the time I've spent at the General Assembly, since 2013, this discussion has been made up every year. We have followed and followed the formulas set out there. Specific guidelines were set out for voters or for the development of their government officials and nationally elected individuals. A senator testifies, and we're completely applying that rules, but there's a whole other debate whether it should be the same algorithm.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u173	A respectable president. Sensitive light, I don't think it's really fragile. I'm comparing that it's an attempt to use the same means to calculate the pay of groups that don't have strike rights or cannot argue about their terms, at least here, we can make our own pay by law, etc. When a decision made in 2016 on the salary of the senators and was asked for the evidence behind that raise was made, for example. only on very vague terms. I'm trying to say that these two groups, and more groups, I compare these two groups in particular because they are just raising the salary of senators and Ministers, that in the social security laws, it is very obvious to try to follow the same formula, which are said to take into account the pay development so that they will never increase less than the prices of consumer prices or pay, depending on whether higher, while the senator increases the pay of public employees. That's the difference. For members of Congress it's about government employees, but in the pensions it's just the pay process in general. All right, nothing from complaining. The difference is that it is not used for real pay development or for a real price of consumers, but it is a real rise for members of Congress. Yes, those with high pension get it in advance, that's one thing, while the senators get it afterwards. There's a difference, too. I wondered if it's not natural that it's anything like this, or if an error is at the end of the year, it's settled. We are repeatedly underestimated by the rise as if it should be in accordance with the Social Security Act of more than 50%.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u174	A respectable president. Hv. In both cases, I have participated in a discussion and listened to a discussion in this hall where we're making these plans, building a social security agreement on these programmes, that this has always been discussed, as I said. I'm not going to go through that discussion in short answers to which rule is more correct than it's been followed, I'm underlined it. It even appeared. in it as a boy. A senator runs. I was not trying to say that it would be a sensitive matter to discuss the ideal generals and the prowess. A senator howled that I was in some way doing so, unless less. This, however, is always this sport when the entire body's salary changes, so there's going to be a riot. Therefore, there is never the right time and never the right time to change their terms. But that discussion. There is a candidate who makes the most of his own rights. I can totally agree that these factors, when the plan doesn't work out, if it doesn't have to be re-evaluated. It's probably just a discussion that's going to be emptied. But I remind you that this method has been followed for years, and no one has been moving on in changing that formula.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u175	Madam President. In unprecedented times, we're writing the story. That's kind of the thing. Unforeseeable times mean there is no precedent. The script is not available. We have to write our own script every day. It even reflects that fact. The government's operations package, which has been introduced to the council in the last few months. They respond to a position that no one expected. Like what? paritaprevir For example, consider the case of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, mentioned earlier today, who may not know exactly what to do because the manuscript does not exist. I mentioned 1st. this question that I would have been surprised to learn how the development of a total budget law had been from an action pack of two, which we will discuss today. While budgeting one amount of $2.6 billion, today we are talking about funding of 13.2 billion, which strikes just up to half of what was done in the first section of the operation that is currently being done, even if we take up the half billion as a financial committee proposes to be added. I think good stories should have other steps. This isn't the stairway that I thoroughly link to a manuscript, but as a result, we'll have more extra funding when the picture becomes even clearer. How Would You Answer? The extent to which I feel that this case has become even more clear to us when it comes to the final payment is how bad we often have the ability to analyze situations, to process data, information, numbers, all the necessary raw materials that good policy needs to be developed. The bill is the most obvious assessment of the impact of the bill on the sex status of the sexes. The social activities included in the budget bill, to be said, a very positive initiative, a very good part of this bill. It has hardly been surprising that these actions are well determined by the gender effect assessment. On the other hand, I might have had to evaluate all the bill because I suspect that the part of the motion that had made such an assessment worse was just the things that were not intelligent. It's because of such little things that you get the same feeling as yours. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson described an extraordinary procedure - perhaps some kind of friendly way to say it. We've got a lot of wood being done here. We're in the middle of a gathering. They are the ideas that can easily be presented in a class that may have become reality in the years ahead, and they are packed together in a pack of actions, and carried out sooner. In addition, old toolboxes and older ideas are recycled, sometimes with good results and sometimes a slightly shorter one. In an action pack, we agreed to bring back everyone's job, which I'm not sure has been enough analysis to prove that it would be as important today as after the collapse of the bank. Then the part-change process is recycling from the same time. I think that when she was started earlier in the year, she may have promised more than already have seen that the space she needs to bridge is considerably longer than she was supposed to be meant to be. Then there are smaller items in this bill, such as offering summer classes for high school and college students, so that people can continue to be educated on vacation and stay active if they don't have a job. But I think it's a cry as to how desperate it is for analysis, how desperate it is to listen to the appeal of the stakeholders involved in the operation. You can, for example. Ask yourself, " Do the summer after a crash have actually given as much opportunity as it was hoped, each graduation rate for those attending it, e.g.? ' I should have checked to see if students had been calling for this. This might not have been necessary because students were not calling for it. What students were calling for was their financial security secure during the summer months. Adding 800 million in summer studies is educational, but this does not serve as a purpose for the advancement of people. Students have simple groups to reach out to those to whom we can look. It's a large group with very well-known annual fluctuations. It is known that at this time of the year, people are released from studies and are going to the labour market for three months and then back to school and are not working because all the analysis in Icelandic students shows that they are working more than they do in Europe. The vast majority of students are working along with studies while people in the same position in other countries can more often concentrate on the study alone. Icelandic student chairs are absolutely in this season's trade to ensure safe living. This is even more important to them than their foreign colleagues because the Icelandic students are usually older than the average European students and more likely to be responsible for family and home, run home. So their need for financial security is great. The fundamental question, when it comes to this group, should naturally be: How do we secure it? There are, of course, two fine ways to do this bill that we will discuss today; the creating of some 3,000 summer jobs in cooperation with state and rural society; and the giving of 300 million. K. in the student's New World Fund to create jobs there. But if we come out of the figures presented in a survey of various students, the National Institutes of the University of Iceland and others, we might estimate that about half of the Icelandic students expected to spend the summer without work. About half means that if the jobs you suggest are made with this bill, we may be able to control about half of the group that needs to be involved. I'm sorry that our students have not yet reached the point where students will be allowed to obtain unemployment if nothing else is offered to allow people to have a safety network that involves secure implementation. If the bill was to be analysed into the basement, it would likely be seen that the group it touches most, the group that would be the worst out of being unemployed and uncoupted throughout the summer, would have to suffer the weight of the next loan months, just the people who have a weak social network, the people who come from homes where they don't have much between their hands, people who are trying to educate themselves in order to have a better future than their parents could allow. It's the people we're supposed to be supporting. Therefore, I hope that while the proposal for unemployment to this group has been dropped here earlier today, she will be back here in the hall, like many good ideas of the government stand, a little later as the next government exercise package. I would like to take into account some of the innovations that are widely discussed in the bill, and I would like to express special satisfaction in paying attention to the financial committees, which pointed out the need for basic research because they are often forgotten. Research is all too often thought about job opportunities and practicalities, but the innovation of enterprises is not in the country unless basic research is done, because innovation companies spring in countries where education is good and where economics are not a barrier to education, where social support is strong. To have someone decide to open up a new business and attract foreign workers is also a matter of paying public transportation, good nurserys, short nature. All that makes life good is what people want along with the exciting work they do. The committee suggests an additional 200 million in the Research Fund, which will remember a time when almost perfect applications will have to be turned away from that fund. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson proposes 600 million, and I don't think we're going to have to strengthen anything less than applications, even though the fund would grow that much. I think there's a discussion we need to take with us into the fall, into the budget, with a view to expanding the research fund permanently so that it doubles the extent of what it is today. Then I would like to express the satisfaction of saying that the budget of my administration at the European Space Agency, which has overstepped sufficiently within the administrations, is a very good example of a small, simple change that can greatly remember. You see, if we're involved in the NASA of NASA, we'll open up opportunities for people in the college community and in innovation companies to pick up partners and sponsors from outside, and they can run on high levels. If we look at the parallels that we know well and often are discussed, then the Weather Service has been hoping further to finance research with foreign funding, so well that this year's budget is the total business of 2.5 billion Western Customs, but it does not come directly to the market. Most of what is lacking comes through research organization funded by funding. Finally, I cannot help you by referring to today's news of companies who abuse emergency resources funded from a joint fund, an enterprise that pays its owners' interest at the same time as they use the part-change process set up to help companies who would not otherwise survive. It's an amazing lack of judgment, and I hope that firms don't want this to be their chapter in the story they're writing. But this made me think of the differences that sometimes appear in our legal system when it came to the way we deal with the rules presented here. It made me feel closer to looking at the closing power bill, which is part of this pack of measures for financial support to less operators. We are talking about hair salons, massage rooms, and physical therapists, who are given a maximum of 2.4 million because they have had to close because of legal orders. These are not high sums for the state, but small companies will remember this. However, if a operator provides incorrect or insufficient information that affects the strength given to the person, the tax should allow him to pay 50% of the stress on reimbursement. We have a bit of a clear, tough plan here. In fact, if we get back to this bill, we have an article on wood laws in which an individual or a legal entity who deliberately violates or gross inadequacy against the law may have to be imprisoned for up to two years. This penalty is then a little rough, considering that a few weeks ago we agreed on the terms of an enterprise's compensation, unfortunately, can abuse in the interests of capital owners without any punishment. I think there's something that we need to think carefully and ask ourselves, whenever we face such decisions, whether they really fulfill that we are all in this together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u176	Madam President. We're here on the government budget bill, another budget at Covid. Investment, yes, it's a law bill that makes up the budget, the Icelandic General Assembly, a decision on how to handle public funds. Unauthorized public fees must not be set up. Because of circumstances, uplifts may be needed at an assembly table, perhaps not weekly, but frequently, to cope with the situation. This is a 13 billion injection into our system to cope with the indiscriminate state of life. 13 billion is a lot of money, not enough, but a lot of money, especially when this is one of the many measures we are taking. Yesterday we had a why. Group president of the United States, Harðardóttir G. Hardydourddótttir, and why. United States Parliamentary Chairman of Refugees and Chairman of the Year. The legal committee, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, here puts it how important it would be to get financial advice to discuss with members of the committee at work. The budget and the what. The Economic and Business Committee on what was really going on, what was going on, how financial advice would imagine what was going on in this unprecedented situation. Budget is to ensure that objective evaluation of public financial policies is conducted. A financial body appointed experts, professionals, are independent of their jobs. The Iceland Government has wisely hid experts in dealing with health risks for Covid virus, but when it comes to economic operations, I fear there is little consultation with experts, with little attention and little perspective. I'm afraid, Madam President, there's a staging analysis, an analysis of the effects of a complete scan. Sadly, this has appeared to us too many here at a council and in a public discussion. Unfortunately, this feeling grows as I listen to more directors, but it is still important to point out that today, in 2 Cor. which is a prime discussion of this extra funds being pumped into the system to rescue, only three members of the management board have relied on to discuss the rescue operations. It was prominent in 1st. how they seemed to be ill aware of the package of action, because they had received little introduction to what was going on. They are not invited to the table when it comes to organizing and not even all government stewards. I also miss all the work that takes place because of the general debate about the direction we want to take, the kind of community we want to build. How do we want this? What's going on? Where are you going? There is no such discussion available here at a council hall or elsewhere, either among the governors, among the members of the Parliament, in general or in the government. True, there are unprecedented times and many things to do. One day we must give ourselves an opportunity to sit down and talk about how a country we want to build, how we're going to have it. We can't just take public money and kill it out with no perspective. But we're here with these billions that are supposed to go in different directions. Before we go any further, I'd like to say that I'll vote with the fundraiser and I'll vote for more of the budget proposals. There are some good ideas, others less good, I would perhaps do differently in some measure, but I will vote with. I'd like to discuss what isn't in these proposals, not the motions, and not the proposals of the government. Let's start with the medical system, Madam President. Now, for years our health system has been heavily stocked. It is a financial failure if compared with other comparable countries, underdeveloped with the OECD state, underdeveloped with financial resources in the country, and with a total amount of money when it comes to the tasks to be carried out. Then came the antiviral and had to be put to work directly to push every action and task that wasn't exactly vital and take major action to deal with the Covid virus in a way necessary to save lives, where health workers in Iceland have performed quite a miracle. It's supposed to be a celebration, and thanks to that. At the outset, health officials were asked to maintain the direct costs of the Covid operation and to give them numbers once a week, Mrs. President, to the Ministry of Health and were promised that they would all be paid. Less than a month ago, or the 17th of April, the cost of an unfavourable medical facility was $3.3 billion a month ago. So these were the expected costs when the financial bill was the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics has shown up. Nevertheless, this decision was made by the highest power. Ministers to do nothing at the expense of the existing institutions. How they're going to do that, especially my institutions, are paying bills on a month-and-a-day basis and ensuring the staff of pay is absolutely uncertain and the operators involved in these institutions are completely incomprehensible. In my work at night. I decided to call around the country and ask, "How are you going to do this? For example, if we used the Western Institute of Health that had to be hired 50 backs, this is a one - third increase in all the staff employed there, the director did not know how to pay them. The government financial office that pays off pay has no authority to pay. How is it to do so when there is no authority? It's just gotta be taken off some other business, don't pay the phone, don't pay the food. This is a financial minister's decision, and this is the decision made by a financial body committee, who did not take this into account today, to leave it just for the future to find out. 3.5 billion were due to the direct actions of Covid less than one month ago. And there's no response. I think so, Madam President, very serious. I think it's serious that we're dealing with the fears of those who are not in sick, but rather strongly trying to run our clinics, but we don't respect them when it comes to such lifesaving work. How the government sees to it how it works, I don't know. There's nothing on this. Then I'd like to mention stress payments for health care professionals, all of whom, every member of the government and minister, fell here in a last traffic hall. Today, proposals to bring stress money have been proposed, but only for some health care professionals. The government post suggested that we attend these stress payments that are setting the example of neighboring countries. But now it is decided, cut by a nail, that forwarders in hospital transportation, police, medical staff in nursing homes are simply left behind. It's just for people inside the departments in the Covid outfits, it looks like. Why this decision was made is completely incomprehensible, especially for those who work e.g. in nursing homes, dealing with Covid patients. They don't get pressure money from the highest level. Government and what. Generals. We suggest a change of motion that this will be increased to equalize the values of our future population. I hope the senators get permission to vote, even if only by one motion of government opposition, because it's no matter where it comes from. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. These payments won't put it on their side, so I guess there's a lot of money. I'd also like to mention other adjustments made by the United States. They involve basic employment benefits, their increase so that they approach minimum wage, increase in unemployment insurance, and most not least the temporary action, Madam President, to allow students who can't get work at all in the summer, not in any of the 3,000 jobs they're making, to obtain unemployment. Yes, the government will increase summer jobs for students, that's very good, for I will be on green then, I will support that operation, of course. But, Madam President, these are 3,000 jobs that don't even catch students at the University of Iceland who have no job for the summer, not even one university of the many colleges we have. Just college students at the University of Iceland who have no work and can't see to get any jobs are 5,000. Then we will talk about all the students at the Art Institute, where only 20% of students said they had a job in the summer, who would not see to it that they had any work. Then we will talk about all the students at the University of Reykjavík, the University of Akureyri, the University of Bifrost, and all high school students. Of course, those under 18 are, or are supposed to be with their parents, but parents have no obligation to provide for those over 18 years of age. And let's not forget that in Iceland not everyone lives in a good deal. Not all students in Iceland have a chance to get food and shelter for themselves and their children at their parents'home during this storm. It's just not like that. I couldn't believe my own eyes today when proposals were offered by the government not to let those students, just the students who don't get a job, not that summer job they're going into, into our common system to save them. This is a check, Madam President, for people to drop out of school, especially those in the most vulnerable groups. This is an opportunity for us to create a lot of injustice because students also have to pay rent and provide for their children. Yes, Madam President, I agree. A member of the Independence Party, the Haraldur son of Benediktsson, who spoke in earlier this evening, is relevant to the setting up of funds. But note, too, what is not being put on and what is directly canceled from the suggestions that are made for good. Let us remember which groups will not be sheltered by the government and the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u177	Madam President. We're here to discuss this budget, which is part of the government's Covid-19 operation package to face the economic consequences of the pandemic. We know what the situation is there. It is followed by epidemics and economic disasters. Happily, the government is in the same position as the government in most parts of the world wants to intervene and help. A little too much help but too little, says secretary of finance in the beginning, and the government nods. The government situation is held in the dark, but it supports rescue measures, doing so as it can by supporting the Covid backing of the government's policy when it comes in spite of the loss of all government laws. And then maybe it's all right, because most of them fall into the government's next operating package, and then the purpose is accomplished. The fact is, the basis for a wide range of enterprises, entire industry and more, is gone in one winter, and rescue packages fall in. A general body of giants will pay up bills in record-time, all to catch companies, to grab homes, and to catch people. It's part-a bit improved, it's unemployment improvements from the state fund, it's the payment of public remuneration, corporate bridge loans, maintenance grants, support loans to SMEs, the equation of income taxation, and so on. We're in a fog, that's just how, with the rest, we're in the fog with which we're best able and which way we're going to go with the effect of the action we're taking. True, there are many things in the fog, and many of the things that have been done so far are quite fine. But fog has negative aspects. In Iceland, history has many sad stories because people have been affected. The fog has lost its vision and has misled, and people may even surrender at the front of the town door because they did not see in the mist. This comes to my mind because, in the past few days, I've had conversations with the officers and staff of small and large companies who have since the second part of March, since the first action began to take place, using themselves, according to the best knowledge and ability, the opportunities we've suggested as much as to discover it some day, even weeks, even months later, that it should have been different, that it would have been better, or that it applied to the wrong place, or would have done something differently than it should have done. I'm going to quote a hairdresser who said, "I'm certainly not educated in these studies, but I have the national team of lawyers and accountants here in my chair. They gave me almost as much advice as they could on which way to go, and there were many of them. These are the people who know how to do it. The bottom line is that it's pretty complicated. We have a variety of types of companies in trouble, established companies, with relatively simple business, all over into new companies that are at their feet, over to giant companies, very complex, and they're all in trouble; they have all kinds of commitments that they can suddenly fail to maintain, and there are all kinds of means available. There's a pretty complicated picture on their faces, even with all these packages. Small business, big business, all kinds of companies need clear guidance on this jungle. It also requires individuals, and that is what is becoming more and more evident. It is in this reality that the benefits of consultation and cooperation are so unambiguous. I have experience with, like many others, working on a major project in small enterprises, in large companies, within large companies, who are in a great deal of contact with other companies in a sensitive market position, and of course, such a large and important project is often replaced by a tight group. This is kept in place so as not to lose it. But at the end of the stretch, when it comes to driving a test, there are people who know how to access the table. It comes up with its ideas, their experience, and it points to something new. My experience is that it's always better to have more when it comes to the finish line, always. There is much truth in better eyes than eyes, and it certainly is true in the circumstances in which we live here, and there is no reason to believe that we politicians have some reality in it than others do. In addition, it is important that we avoid certain straw samples when it comes to handling matters. People come with different views to the problem. The only thing we have in common is to agree on what the problem is and to agree on where we want to go. If consultation with this aspect slows down, it must only be done. It will never slow down more than any mistake we can make right now because we don't call people to the table, because the management groups don't take advantage of the power of governmentism, don't take advantage of the ears, the experiences in which they live, etc. Had, for example. Would it not be beneficial some weeks ago to look at the first round of the improvement process with critical eyes and to get others at the table to roll up rocks? True, it took positive changes in the services of a health committee but apparently not sufficiently. Then perhaps there is one of these things that is interesting to take into consideration, and that is to look at what is. Now I just have the opinion of the committee with the funds, which, on the part of the section, covers the situation. In some places it may seem that, with good intentions, certain expenses are being proposed, but if you consider what has happened so far, this may not necessarily be in hand, even though it may be approved here soon, because the output is in place. I would like to refer to page 18. 3 In the opinion of the committee, which refers to the efforts of mental - health professionals with a budget of 540 million. In other words, mental activity is a matter of special importance. Now, for the General Assembly, there is a bill - that is, the matter of restoration, a record number of people, of all groups, and the approach, indeed cross-continent - which includes the transfer of psychological services into the health care system. The matter has been very detailed and very well discussed on a well - being committee committee, but it has not been published. However, here we are talking about a project that is yet to be implemented. Why not take advantage of what is available and let the bill pass so that it can be taken right away? Another interesting point is that the media support that's supposed to appear here, the unique support, is not really greater than the amount of money that has been spoken of on the part of the government, the rest of which is the elected period. Therefore, calling this one a Covid support is at best embarrassing and it is absolutely unacceptable to keep the media in this position at a time they are certainly meant to provide the General Assembly and the Government, companies who intend to take advantage of the methods offered for real security. Above all, this reduces the capacity of the media to sustain governments during this matter, this promised support, not a month after a month, but a year from year to year. Now it's time for this warrant to go in, it's due to be taken from the other one. It's an intermediate, and that's where the eighth part disappears somewhere along the way. That would've done better than that. We can go on. Without a doubt, there are other cases of any kind that could have been taken and used. This additional amount of money could have been put into cases that have already been won, covered, and ready to go out and make benefits. Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson's first speech was well conducted on the motion of restoration to this matter, and it's time to review it again that we will support these suggestions. I went over it earlier. We support good work. It's being done well, it's just the methodology I've been criticizing. We will assume that our suggestions will be dropped, so we have become accustomed. We will support the greater portion of the proposals but will continue to provide what we can. Among the suggestions for restoration, there is an increase in funding for innovation. Well, there's definitely more to it. We have such firm faith that a message of long - term effort on that subject will bring us great benefits. Therefore, we specifically proposed earlier today to make this temporary approach to the next two years. There is a possibility that when companies are doing research, innovation, and development work, they need to be sure that they are not camping for one night, so to speak. We would've really wanted to see at least... There'll be railroads. But that does not mean that this will not be extended at some point in life, and we will certainly talk to it and support it. We also have suggestions for raising students, working for the summer, to improve that. We also want to expand it to our private sector. There are all kinds of reasons. Some of the government's summer classes are paid 100% of the government, i.e. both the half being offered by a labour agency and then these are government jobs. If the private market is involved, they'll pay half, of course. This stimulates the private sector, and then it is worth remembering that there are many young people who are educated in articles that do not offer jobs in the public sector but in the private sector. That, too, matters. We're talking about students from years of study who have even worked for years in a company, come with good knowledge, and are an important addition to that company. We would've liked to see that there's something we can do about it. I think it's very important that we keep in mind that our job insurance system is not exactly friendly to students, and there are all kinds of reasons why it is. At the same time, though, we have a learning loan system that encourages people to cooperate. So we are not quite fair to our students in the way we build up our system and hence how we are reacting to it now. Thus, we contribute an additional 1 billion to the summer work of students and to this expansion of the process. I'm not gonna have this much further. It's already been evening, and we have a very long vote left. Many words have now been applied to the material content of this package like that of others. I wanted to discuss the methodology, and I hope that she made some progress. I think it matters. Except for the mature benefits of that, I think we'd be working better for our people. The examples show that we are sending out a very different message. The problem with that situation is that we are spending money on something that does not give up completely. Simply, I think it's a better way to look at the methods.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u178	Mr. President. We'll discuss budgets, others in a relatively short time period of time, but funding is about to add the funds that have already been decided through budgets and will be replaced in the current year. We are talking about measures added to the 2020 budget and should likewise be used in 2020. In the context of the suggestions presented here, it is about this year. It's what we're going to do now. I'd like to review what, of course, was traced when the case was originally submitted, i.e. about what it's all about. On the one hand, there is the authority to provide support loans, and then there are social actions, i.e. action to promote our social security network at this time. They think I'm very important, and I think it's important that they come now. We're taking on important social activities now, and that's one of the things I think we've learned from a previous economic collapse, that it's important to do certain things right away. I'd like to keep in mind that there are 5 billion people here in operations involved with students and jobseekers. This is of utmost importance. And within it, there is also a special effort to increase the number of temporary jobs for students who have limited right to unemployment benefits and who are promoting study and employment options for jobseekers during the summer and the next winter. There is also an opportunity for money to promote the education of young people during the summer as well as for summer higher education. I think it's very important. However, it is also called upon to contribute funds to reduce the social isolation of the elderly and the disability of the elderly. There's a group that's come back in many ways in the Covid flag. Hence, it is urgent to strengthen the current activities and social centers and entertainment that they make use of. Also, money is being provided for social services and child protection in scattered areas and is being promoted and added to child protection. Sadly, this has been shown to be an enormous necessity, for the situation has made the situation of many children worse, so it is so important to deal with it right now. That's a count of 600 million here. K. to support the sports and leisure activities of children who come from income - poor homes. This is also a factor that I believe is of great importance. Also strengthening the health - care services of the health - care providers are taking place when it comes to mental - health issues. It's really important, and I think that that's exactly the way, to do it through the health care. We want our health care to be the first stop, and in my opinion, it should be the same as any kind of disease or crippling people. This may well have been discussed with the nature of the case on the subject of change proposals made in this financial bill and the extensions being done. I think it's important to keep in mind that the changes in committee proposals and the changes in the majority of the items, which, in fact, a great many of my members agree, I've heard that everyone is going to support them, is down in a conversation. It's a legal committee. Thus, it is not possible to say that these are just suggestions from us who belong to the greater part. Of course we have a lot to say about them, because this is the opinion of the greater part, but there's no suggestion here that I've heard someone in the lesser part speak against. Indeed, during the discussion of the committee, everyone has contributed to the issues and has influenced the way the suggestions are shaped. However, there are other forms of change, and in itself there is nothing to say, it's just freedom of everyone. Senators making adjustments. But I think it matters, and we have to keep it in mind that all the actions that are now being attacked cost money. I think it's okay to talk about it. It's good that we put money in order to promote our social systems. But we also need to keep in mind that at some point there will be a need to regain balance in the government budget. Hence, it is important that what we do is as specific as possible. Of course, it is about the prospect of a good and prosperous society. And for this very reason, I have to agree with those who have described how they are offended by the news we have received because companies that have been using the resources prepared to set up just to keep the people in this situation - then I am referring to the part-change process - that companies should have allowed themselves to put their employees on the stocks, which are, as I say, measures that are taken to protect people's recruitment activities and their survival and that are precisely financed by our common funds. This is financed by our tax dollars, and that these companies have allowed themselves to pay their bills at the same time is not good enough. It is to us who are working here to help us deal with what we're doing. But I'm also hoping that this will be a message in the community that we'll join together to say, "This is not how we want to do it. This is not how we want to treat our public money. We're supposed to step in and protect people's survival, but we're going to do the same for the future. - It reminds me that I forgot one thing in my speech, which is just about the future. I just leaped over that section accidentally. That, of course, is all we are doing and strengthening our innovation. There we are in a large part of the legal committee, adding further money to basic research. This funding is of utmost importance because it will strengthen us as a society for the future. I'd also like to mention another, and we came to that committee opinion, that it is extremely important to remind you, in all the efforts taken in a labour market, that the disabled and the long - suffering are also in the labour market. Of course, there is a need for protection in the workforce in this situation and to further contribute to the development of a single - time campaign to enable it to provide a special protection on the activities of protected workplaces that have been cut off by the pandemic. I think we have a very important budget bill, it's taking on some very important things. It is clear that this will not be our last budget bill this year, and I think it is important that as time goes on, we start to see how the action we take is working to learn from it and take care of our work around it. How true that this has been of a need! But I certainly hope that we will join together and stand together as a community, and we will not tolerate the fact that an enterprise uses this situation in order to become part of a common fund other than what needs to be done to keep people working and to keep seawater in order to continue in the future. Now is not to be greedy. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u179	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. The media has supported the government's proposals and measures. We support this pack of 2 or more items, and it is important to support all the measures involved in minimising the damage we are facing because of the pandemic. The middle class feels that it is necessary to go further and will move a change proposal, which we will vote for afterwards, which is about to increase the number of jobs. This year's ride is of utmost importance when we see that approximately 50,000 people are out of work or overcrowded. The government's priority is to increase jobs and reduce unemployment where possible and there we suggest that the insurance fee be dropped until the end of the year. The insurance bill is a very good way, i.e. to reduce or drop it, to protect the work and then the companies have more resources to hold on to their employees and even hire new employees. Then we set out a special budget to expand this summer line, allowing it to enter the autumn and winter, and turn to members of society, as well as to the exclusive enterprise so that a government fund can finance the efforts of these people to take on people. These are very helpful suggestions in our view. As I said before, we've been supporting the motions of the greater part. But I'd like to ask you why. Councilman: Are we expecting the Commission to submit the following suggestions from the Central Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u180	Mr. President. Just as I studied in my speech, the suggestions from a greater part of the budget are in a sense cooperated, and more have come to shape them than we, who are only in the greater part, though we are, of course, may be said, the primary responsibility for them, but as shown in the case of which. A senator says he supports them. I simply have doubts about the insurance route and whether it will achieve the desired goal. If I don't, I know there's been more discussion on these issues on the Economic and Business Committee, and it's been discussed and it's led to a certain smell there, what I know best. As for the expansion of the efforts to work and also extend it to the private market, I also have doubts about them and wonder how to implement it so that we can make sure that business does not reveal employees who are already at work to hire new employees, which, in part, would be part of it, or, to a large extent, on government pay. I quickly see not just how that path should go but how it should work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u181	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is relatively simple to accept that as a matter of course. A senator is concerned about the summer route. It is quite simple, just as conditions can be set in the part-change process, not to be paid, etc. It is relatively simple to do so. The central class has more adjustment proposals and is largely united by the anti-regional classifications. There are many practical suggestions, e.g. On the stress payments, to add them. The committee has found that there are groups that have really been left out on the front line, that is, in particular, nursing staff. Therefore, it is important to extend that route. We have a suggestion for special payment by poorer and elderly citizens. That's an important way to stimulate the economy. Then these groups will receive more provisions and will eventually spend them in part. It's going into the economy, starting the economy, trading and services, etc. In addition, we have a close-up to an enterprise, i.e. to those who are entitled only to the government-class support loans, we suggest that these companies also receive a close-up scholarship like those companies which had to be closed by a DAT interviewer's recommendation. This too is an important tool. We have a suggestion to freeze loans from all tourism companies to 18 months of age. What a need! Otherwise, we are simply looking forward to a mass crisis in this article, so it will not be ready to start when tourists return here. More suggestions; we have an increase in technology fund and research and development and film fund, tourist products, national parishion and to young pioneers. Now I'm asking why. Senator: Does the government body, the government party, come up with any suggestions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u182	Mr. President. Hv. A member of the council has presented a fine arrangement for making changes in his company, and it is only normal that he uses his opportunity to do so. As I have previously said, much money is being put into many things to strengthen society, to increase innovation, and to strengthen the social systems. It all matters. What is being done here is to add. I think it's highly responsible to go on a safe course because it really matters what we do now and how we do it. Hence, it is very important to have both feet on earth and not have a command when it comes to the action that governments are taking at this tremendously delicate time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u183	A respectable president. There was an interesting debate about the goals in opposition to earlier goals, goals with reductions in insurance costs; it would be unclear whether they would be successful. The problem is that every action by the government is under the same guess as this proposal to reduce the amount of insurance. In fact, it is an excellent guess that the reduction of the insurance fee would have a positive effect on this matter, but there are other aspects of the government's budget on two terms that are not necessarily obvious enough to produce the results it is intended, or what the result of the action was intended. An example is, in fact, the results of the first amount of funds have been made, by means of interest, etc., are only rare. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator: In contrast with what was last collapse, when a debt exchange was due to banks who obtained property for them and actually paid back the debt collection, we are not in that luxury today. In fact, we have no guarantee of the collection we are going out of that debt. So the recurrence after this decline will be completely different from the last one, i.e. In contrast with the past, we need to work at paying down the debt collection not only for one large summer when our possessions are built up but also for the other. And how does it look? A senator of this in his plans, e.g. the reduction of taxes, which is one of the conditions of the Life Treaty, from the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u184	Mr. President. First about the insurance bill. What I meant is that it would be useful to companies, no matter what else they are. It does not particularly focus on those enterprises that are particularly uncomfortable today. Hv. A senator also came across the issue that we need to think about the future and how we get out of it, for at some point in life there will be a need to get more balance in the money. I want to do it so that we protect our community, our social systems, about the public. That's why I think it matters that we're directing the budget as much as we can, and it's very likely that we'll learn something along the way about how to set it right off. It's, I think, just very normal. But I believe that it is just about stressing the importance of directing the money as much as we can and having knowledge of exactly what is right at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u185	A respectable president. Sometimes unrecognised solutions work better, at least to this extent. Pirats and I have talked about this, e.g. In terms of irresistibly shallow improvement, just where the foundation is guaranteed. There those in need - and those who may need less - receive a certain amount of money to succeed. The foundation is secure, because we can all get into trouble. Even if we're doing well now, we're not sure of the future. So I wanted to ask about certain insurance that I asked. paritaprevir Haraldur, son of Benediktsson, in the past. We senators are now under the law of pay to raise according to the pay of public employees, and I think this is an excellent arrangement. Of course, there are times when such an increase is inappropriate, just the situation now, for example. In comparison, there is another group that has it very bad. People who are behind the Social Security pensions have very similar conditions for raising their pensions, i.e. whether you have a higher, pay development or an index of consumer prices. Since the Law, the pension has always been raised as predictors of pay and prices, but it has not always been underestimated. It has been underestimated by more than 50% in these 22 years, 30% since 2007 when the last major system changes were made. I just wanted to think it over. A senator: Why aren't we doing this in exactly the same way for this group that is so bad as for members of Congress, about 50%? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u186	Mr. President. The changes that have been made in the way the people's salary change, I believe, are of utmost importance. Today, not by the way their wages change but by what happens in the public market. I think this is something that will reveal to the future that is the greatest happiness, and I think most people would agree that it is the right way, although it is spoken of as a matter of course when the rise comes to members of the council. But there's another story, and it's fine. Hv. A senator here spoke of irreprehensible advancement, what he believes is the advantage of that process. I have to say, I don't think it exactly falls to increase the equation in society, nor is it necessary to improve the terms for developing disability, since by that means everyone gets the same basis for what they have in addition to that. In some ways, money is being given to those who do not need it, perhaps even as the part - cut process ended. magazines which were paying their interest. This I think will cause so much money to go to the very people who don't need it, and you can't make the changes necessary in the social security system, the changes that are just so necessary to improve the terms of those who have no other opportunities to improve their terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u187	A respectable president. This has been an interesting discussion, an important discussion, for the steps we are taking here today, followed by votes, are natural ways of continuing to trust the foundations and build up our society. As we have been approaching our assignment, we wanted to help. We wanted to show a solidarity, not one-sided solidarity, but we have voted with all the laws of the government and are now a member of the majority of the administration party. Of course, we've made our suggestions, some have come in, others have not. It's all right. This is the beautiful picture of the council, we're having informal talk, and you see some of it coming into the motion, that's all. It is natural to think about something when the proposal cannot be made but then comes in 15 minutes because it is the government himself who makes the suggestions. But all right, this will take care of everything. We're working with this while the virus is being dealt with. I'd like to agree with that. Secretary of finance and others of the government have said, including... The chairman of the budget board that comes in here, that putting top priority on valuables, keeping the economy going. That's the perfect key. Protect jobs, create jobs, and create opportunities. There is a misunderstanding that this is what we are going against the homes of the country. It's not like that. There is an unscrupulous thread between jobs, companies and homes. If the job is on the feet of bread, the homes and the families too will fall. That's why I support the government to consider just how we can put our hands on the pros. There are also other things that have been done well, not always enough, but there are many things that are being tried to do and deal with, including The pay of unemployment improvements, the funding of schools, the various resources of high quality, research and development funds. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, our representative on the Economic and Business Committee and a budget board, was very much obliged to review our proposals for this reversal and approach. He correctly said that the big task is to prevent long - term noncooperative activities. That is why, in fact, we have to set aside everything else, in my opinion, for example. Discussing whether we have high or low taxes, a detailed state fund, or not. We need to place Icelandic, Icelandic, domestic, commercial society at the corner of this storm. Then we must take firm unprecedented action in connection with this unprecedented time. We must do everything to prevent long-term noncooperative activity so that the social problems and economic costs for society will not be too large. What does that mean for the state funds? Today, we are deeply concerned that we are putting too much burden on the wealth of the state that is being overcrowded in comparison with our major neighboring nations in the matter of debt. We must work very hard to keep our smallest brothers and sisters in mind, but we must also prevent long - term inactivity from becoming a part of the social consequences that come with, agitation, and also the effects on democracy itself. We know that this will eventually affect democracy. I don't want to think about the end of that thought if we see the consequences of the future that here some fanatic groups will rise on this basis. Democracy is the kind of thing that really matters that we think about it that way. Therefore, the vast and extramarital nature of the enterprises is involved. We have given tremendous importance to the fact that big steps would be taken immediately, not smaller steps. I can't deny that some of these things seem like low-dose medicine, but it's a good thing. There's a certain ambition, even though I would have wanted to see it more. Regarding the innovation, I have often said that there have been many progressive steps in innovation, research, and evolution. Now, though, there is a unique opportunity to do something better. So I was very disappointed with the message the members of the government and the rest of the council sent out today when they made our proposal for innovation and development, not temporary, but premature, so we're saying, "Yes, we're betting on innovation, we're investing in innovation for a long time. It is important to note that we do not temporarily invest in this sector, since innovation needs time. New creations and sceptres need spiritual and economic space to grow and thrive. I thought it was a bad message, not in line with what we're talking about, that there's more eggs here in the basket. We need to build up the travel service again, just to be clear. That's, so I'll drop, a respectable President, a fineolow-hanging fruit to us to get as soon as possible out of the economic depression and crisis we're facing. But we must not make the mistake that we have made in recent years not to gather into the sea, not to support the fourth sector; innovation, evolution, research. That is why we stress the exact nature of these factors and want them to be clear - cut. We should not forget, too, that we are competitive and highly educated, competitive, intelligent. All countries in Western Europe, both east and south, and also the United States, and we see China and other Asian countries coming in strong. Everyone is going to try to do even better with education, research, science, evolution, innovation. Then we must do so well and show a degree of competitiveness and adaptability, be quick, have a simple rulework, have a clear channel, and let the system work. It's just not working fast enough now. And why do we want to do more, and why do we want to put more money into the fund, both raise the payout for SMEs and further into research and development funds? That's even. at the expense of the crown, the fate beyond what is expected here in this hall. It is shown that 75% of innovation companies say that the main and competitive barrier to it is a dollar. Then let's just take it right away into the variable of the donations. That's even. The reason we want to do even better in the innovations and the wand sector. We have also provided suggestions on spending insurance so as to do so as a matter of course. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson said earlier today, to protect the work for the homes and businesses of the country, so that people can live in security and go to work. It has a lot of security, and it is also a force to keep commercial and economic machines going. That is why we have offered specific suggestions on the insurance bill. We've also offered suggestions on internalinvestors and they'll be more because what's being talked about here today is considered too little. We need to speed up projects, projects that we have already begun to assume in our long-term investment plan. We also need to make new investments. We need to show the immediate design of the city line and its design, also design for the Elfjörður bridge, and start immediately and even further with a medical facility - and now they are missing. The 100 that were now opened at the Plain Road placed a former oat. Councilman Resurrected, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, set off 2016, 2017. It's just been too long. We need to continue these buildings, do it now, and speed up our work. Why do I say that? Because we saw it last year, for Covid, that it was even a large recession in the building sector, which is a major industry, 15,000 to17,000 people who work there, and we saw that it would be at least A 20% decrease and an even greater proportion will occur after Covid. That's why a clear message has to be sent out. I feel like there's a lack of ambition because it's part of going to the restoration, the interview for an Icelandic job. So it should be clear. I'd like to see a lot more investigated investment than is being introduced and it's being offered at once. This is key. The big thing is the creation and the way we push it. I enjoy it because, fortunately, we are more in agreement than the other one here, not necessarily speaking a lot of politics all around, and I'm not necessarily sure that there's a steady demand for great conflict. However, I have observed a particular present between the right and the left categories here on the value of public jobs, the value of public jobs, and the valuableness of jobs in the private sector, as if it were some sort of black and white world that it is not. This supports each other. Oh, my God, haven't we had that experience today and in the last few weeks, how valuable our jobs are in the public sector, the health sector? But we also see that it is key that we can continue to strengthen ourselves in the field of well-being, education and innovation, that we can continue our jobs so that there will be increasing employment and valuables in the private sector. That's the perfect key. Of course, it is a challenge to hear at the same time the secretary of finance complain that there was a lack of increased understanding of the importance of private sector. We support him in promoting his work. Let us not forget that the period for Covid is somewhat blurred, and that is somehow forgotten the period, probably a bit convenient for the government. But last year, under the leadership of this government and including... The Ministry of Economic Independence, then the general market went down by 6,000 jobs for Covid because of too much taxes, too much on the job. Government funds, at the end of 2019 C.E., were no longer sustainable. The government faced the task of setting priorities in order for the government's funds to be long-term sustainable. It was a project that took place during the New Year's season. It is a little ironic to talk about the importance of personal employment, but at the same time, it has been possible to reduce the number of jobs in a general labour market by 6,000 last year. As we have come to realize that there is a great need for employment and management at the same time, it is certainly pathetic and heavier than tears to experience that a business that does not need government support in the condition that we now live in needs to take an extra turn, extra hook, to go to the state bed. The reason needs to be reasoned. I'd like to encourage the employment community simply to publish ethics in such a situation, because it's damaging to us who speak for us professionally, why it's necessary to build up companies. Why do we need to do so? I've repeated that it is a key to the family and to the security and survival of people having a very powerful business here. That's why it's boring if companies go that way when they don't need the money. Indeed, we need every cent in our work edification and repair. In the past, I was able to say little about the politics. I think you're right. We are not now, temporarily, to discuss whether to raise or lower taxes, cut down, or not from a government fund. We are to do what other nations are doing. The U.S. bank manager did not say long ago that there should not even be a debt of state funds in the United States but, above all, to deal with this short-term problem of action as soon as it is widespread to prevent long-term problems with all the social insecurity and agitation that follow, and I had the ability to do so. This is what the U.S. bank manager, the country we often look to about, maybe not right now, but about freedom and other things. There, a government fund owes 100% of the gross domestic product. What do we owe Icelanders? Less than 30%. So the position of the State and State Fund is much stronger than that of many others. I've pointed out before what the Germans are doing, which are the most conservative people, with full respect for all other nations, when it comes to government affairs, very conservative, whether it is for the SPD, the solsican antelope, who led the country for a long time with Helmut Schmidt and others in charge, over CDU, the Christian Democrat, who were also very conservative in this, whether it was Kohl Kohl, and that I don't now speak of the wonderful model Angela Merkel's model. They're going to take the debt of the German state from 40% to a high 60% because everyone realizes that now it's not a matter of hesitation, of being in bed, of being small. There must be unconventional ways to get professional life started as soon as possible. That's where I come to what I miss from here. I'd like to allow myself to criticize the government. Now we've got the virus under control. We've been listening to the experts in the public defence team. They have explained where they are going, they have set goals in cooperation with even those involved. Iceland's university, and everything's been right, more or less. The big movie has stood. We have always been able to follow them because they have explained where they are going. We've got the virus under control in this round. She'll be back, we know, but in this round, we've got her under control. Then I would have thought that the government was ready for its plan, not just the plan of action that will pay a fine price. But now it's been three months. We're an economy. It's not that we have a complicated economy, just not at all, but it's as if we're not ready. They don't tell us what the plan is. When do you start opening? How to open it? We only had the last experience today at the Assembly Hall that each hand is against the other in the government groups on whether to open May 15 or whether to open over. That's because the government hasn't shown the cards yet. Where are the stage photos? When will she put them on the table? I know that the representatives of the Archipelago have called for a staging analysis and information on this precisely, but no answer has been made by the government groups and the government minister. It is worth considering that we really don't know what the plan will be for the next few days and weeks, the next month. Well, we're trying to get some action done. And good for the signs, the bridge loans that were introduced to six or seven weeks ago, have already begun. There was news today about it. Yet, this is beginning to work in the world, to form a 500 million economic system, which is the European Union, which was severely criticized today for the gravity of it. Yeah, well, there's a lot to do, but these 27 countries have agreed on a huge pack of operations and have him start working. There's nothing ready for this. The bridges are starting now. I don't know why we're so hovering. It is beyond my understanding when we are in this small economy, where the channel is supposed to be clearer. I heard about today's dealings with a tourist in Spain. That Iceland had rented a house in Spain three years ago. He was clocked by the circuit service in Spain and said: "Good and good, this situation has been, but this is the government plan for how we're going to open up. Actually, we're not opening up in May, but we're going to have a date in June, and here's the government plan for opening up this important Spanish industry. For us Icelanders, it is one of our major sectors, a profession that would be easy to get back on track if we were to demonstrate any plan in this regard. That's what I'm calling out for today. Everybody wants to do their best, I realize that, but it doesn't work for me anymore that we don't get stage shots from the government. I'd like to encourage her to look to the public defense trinkets that have just shown up on the cards day after day, not to the point of being a bit in between, but to show them day after day how to work on the goal and to get the public to understand what was going on. This must be done by the Icelandic government. We're way too hovery today. [[The president calls.]] If this continues to be so vague, the restarting of the economy will be more difficult, the damage will be more severe, and the damage will be done in the government if it does not start to show its cards right away. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u188	Mr. President. Here we are paying votes for 13 billion allowances of about In my opinion, 1% of the government spending is not enough to meet the needs and appeals that are taking place in this community that has to deal with one of the deepest depressions for 100 years. This place is not raising unemployment benefits. There's little or no mind for the homes here. There are no practical projects here. The little companies seem forgotten. This is not a new job or defense for the current job. The ideas of the government are primarily abdicating information. Of course, the union supports all practical suggestions, but we want to go far beyond that. Here we have provided suggestions, along with others in the management position, to add stress payments, to increase funding for small companies, especially for tourism. We'd like to put extra money on disability and senior citizens and the U.S., the Motion Fund, the media, the country area, etc. All these suggestions are possible, and I know that in their hearts many members of the board agree with them, but I also know, unfortunately, that every form of government proposal will be broken. [[The president calls.]] Is that particularly unfortunate in such conditions as this, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u189	A respectable president. Here we go. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson to raise unemployment rates and to guarantee students the rights to them this summer. Students want to work, but they can't if jobs aren't available. Granted, summer jobs are being created for students, possibly 3,000 jobs, but there are little more unemployment involved. This suggests that students get a safety net during the summer to ensure that people have food safely and that they can continue to study in the fall. This is a self - determination and an important suggestion for a group we want to protect.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u190	A respectable president. We vote on one of the budgets that have resulted in action due to the pandemic and when the third one is due. The sum of the budget now totals 1,3β14 billion. In unprecedented times, many things happen without precedent. The government situation makes a new arrangement for over 60 billion here, 37 of which is the United States of Piratar 25. The funds, as mentioned earlier, contain 13 ◯14 billion. These are truly unprecedented omens. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u191	Mr. President. Among the suggestions for making this adjustment, students will be granted the right to unemployment during the summer. I'd like to use this opportunity, as soon as I account for my vote, to point out that the action that is currently being taken is comparable to the ones proposed to the last crisis. However, the system was converted to the then social and insurance minister, eh? paritaprevir Páll's Árnason of Aarnar, in that they were not paid unemployment in school, and that has been the case since that time. I just wanted this to be done on this occasion, but I'm not gonna support this transition.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u192	A respectable president. We vote for an extra proposal for a smaller company, and I would like to make a special statement to the press that is expected to be added to our proposal. There is no need for many to comment on the role of the media in these times, and neither does it have to be reminded of the great difficulty faced by the media in times of disaster. I trust that the U.S. Senate will respond in a fair way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u193	Mr. President. This is where we vote on stress payment for those in the front line to health care professionals, including in nursing homes, hospital transporters, etc., because we believe everyone should sit at the same table when it comes to stress paid to those who have responded because of a Covid problem. Of course, we should leave all forward workers at the same table, not just those in the home, but all medical institutions. Of course, we vote with them suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u194	A respectable president. Not only are we voting on the pressures for health care professionals but we are also paying special 100,000 charges. $1,000. One-on-one pay for the poor and the older citizens. It would be great if it could have been approved. Then there's 100 million. K. Support for the U.S.A. who has now lost so much as any Elvish sale due to Covid. It should be noted that older citizens have not been given anything and these 100,000 dollars. mallitive payments for poorer and elderly citizens would have paid them very much and showed a color, but unfortunately, it seems that they will not be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u195	A respectable president. In the music, the original version is often better than the even code. That's the way it is, for example. with the proposal to pay dues for future air support in the welfare system. This was suggested by the last pack of actions. At that time, it was taken up, and then it hung up in the motions of government officials - to fewer employees than it did in the original edition. Here it is suggested to move it to a better way of life but, unfortunately, does not seem to enjoy the sound base of those who took this song into a new version.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u196	Mr. President. These are changes from the control position that put nothing on the side. The suggestion is to place money in innovation, including in the Technical Development Fund and Film Fund. It is surprising that the World of Congress did not trust to place money in these two key funds. The film industry has been calling for greater government support and has not been given. The amount of money that runs to reimburse films dropped by 30% from year to year in the last budget, but the proposal that we also vote for is additional donations for tourism that you would have thought would be supported. It doesn't look like it to me, though. There's a proposal to make contributions to the national parish plans that you would have thought some senators could support. Everything, though, does not happen. That's a small amount for young pioneers, etc. These are suggestions that you would have thought would be possible to unite in an emergency, but as with all other proposals of the government, we will see what is happening. Congress members of the left green, forward Party, and Independence Party all drop our proposals at the same time as we accept their proposals. [[The president calls.]] This is sad, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u197	Mr. President. We'll vote on the Central Party's transition to the budget bill. She's in two teams, one on the other, cutting down the insurance fee until the end of the year, which will create a job. It will strengthen the enterprises in maintaining existing staff and recruiting. In addition, there is a suggestion to add and expand the summer work strategy so that it applies also to members of the organization and private enterprise and will be extended up to the autumn into the winter. In an effort to protect the work, we provide additional funds. The most important responsibility of the government in these difficult situations is to defend and expand our jobs. This proposal goes on, and I encourage the Senate to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u198	Mr. President. I support this suggestion, which goes on to give more money, a total of 2 billion dollars, in order to create jobs with a so-called summer line. I think there are a lot of things in this country that we can't do and can be used for various jobs, such as the U.S.A. In forestry. Forests need wood, roads, roads, and steps, and other factors. I think it's well worth spending more money on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u199	A respectable president. Here's a correction on a basic pension according to the 69th grade. the 2007 social security legislation, which calculates the increase in basic pensions, whether from pay or from the index price of consumers, whether higher. This has never really been done, so the rise in the law to more than 30% has gradually been determined by a degree of realism. This is the focus of the microenergy sector, so we simply suggest that, on the basis of Congress pay and Ministers'increase according to actual pay development, this should be adjusted to be comparable. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u200	A respectable president. It's a very simple adjustment proposal. We also received a financial committee, as well as a health committee, a memo, and a calculations from the Ministry on the disaster of the epidemic for health care. It was divided into institutions and other things, and the accumulated cost was just over 3.5 billion that we have to cover at any time in the year anyway. Of course, we should immediately and should really be getting better analysis of the cost since then. This is then mid - April, so obviously there are the missing funds and we simply suggest that they be approved right now. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u201	A respectable president. There is good reason to correct what has been observed repeatedly, that there is absolutely a possibility that all health costs due to Covid-19 will be improved. To make sure that we have an accurate number of these materials, all medical institutions have been put in place for maintaining these costs from week to week. He will be brought up to improve institutions in this regard. It is a complex matter that confronts the institutions when the cow is behind them, i.e. to take up projects that have been offered, but also to ensure that our health - care providers can respond rapidly and safely when and if the pandemic occurs again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u202	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal from Reunion on section 3, assuming 5 billion dollars. Unable to establish two tasks. One project is going on to provide 2.5 billion for the need, good and urgent work, while the other part of the proposal, 2.5 billion, is to march in order to speed up projects at the city line. The middle party can't support that case and we won't vote for 3rd passed that way. We believe that a city line is poorly prepared and vague promises to the future. So this is just the beginning of what should come, where the mayor of the mayor's business in the lead has forced the government into this mission. So we can't vote with this suggestion that's fine in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u203	Mr. President. We vote for a four-way proposal. It's about fixing insurance money to stimulate the fact that companies have people at work and that unemployment records are filled in. This is where we propose an injection to our research fund, we suggest that money be put to speed up the project, and most important, we recommend that 1 billion be put in the summer work of students, and that the arrangements be expanded so that they can reach the private sector as well. I can see on the board that this doesn't fit well. A world of sadness, unfortunately, is not surprising either.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u204	Mr. President. We vote to contribute 3 billion to the New Creation Fund for employment so that we can lend support to innovation companies, many of whom are close at present. Some people are bleeding to death. This is thought of as an antiquities campaign from private investors. I know it's the highest. Minister of innovation has decided that this sort of thing will work out, so I trust it at least. that she will vote for this vote. I see, though, that those hopes were hopeless and hopeless, all good things are cut off from government opposition as usual, including this good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u205	A respectable president. While the matter itself is indiscriminate, it means that I'm sitting by this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u206	Mr. President. We're paying votes for enormously important extras and important adjustments to that bill. I think the especially social activities proposed here are going to be of enormous importance. It may be that we have to vote for more money in the coming days, but these are certainly important for an Icelandic community to reach the fight that is necessary after the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-07-100.u207	V.E.G. President. I'd like to, at the end of a vote on a budget-a-law bill, which is an important part of the whole operation and measures to address the consequences of Covid-19 on the economy, and the community thanks both to today's discussion that has been very helpful and workful. The budget board. This is mainly a group of action not covered by previous actions. These include a number of important social activities, education and employment options for students and jobseekers, stress payments and leisure resources for children of income - rich families, and all rural areas of the country, mental development and mental health. Health care is strengthened as well as social support for children. In addition, innovation and support are of high importance to less operators.
