ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u1	Borist has a letter from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the requested request. 290, of the prices of livestock disposed of due to disease, of the Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and of the Foreign and Development Minister for a petition. 265 of the U.S. government's actions against marine mammals, from Inga Sæland Land.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u2	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill on the state-of-the-art air control of Iceland's National Reservation Guard. The subject of the bill is that the VAP has been in a strike since November 6, 2020. As a result, there is no functioning helicopter or plane available at Iceland's National Reservation Guard. It is a medical emergency that affects both seafarers and the public. Yesterday, November 26th, a final attempt was made to negotiate with Iceland's Air Force Association without success. In addition, the Society rejected the terms of state harmony. The purpose of this procedure is, because of the emergency situation that has come up, to put an end to the ground crew's aerospace workers and direct the debate to arbitration. With a discourse, dated November 18, last November, Iceland's National Security informed me of an impending emergency at the Agency, in terms of a rescue response. In this discussion, it said that air strike operations by aviators would prevent the National Guard from maintaining the necessary security and rescue services and that all of the Agency's funerals would be disabled within a few days at the latest Wednesday, November 25, but even sooner if unexpected failures occurred. The situation is now that there is neither helicopter nor plane available in the land, which is a serious matter, especially for sailors, when there are no other rocks at sea. Despite a strike, the National Guard has tried to ensure minimal emergency services and has done all within its power to keep the helicopter TF-GRO in an air condition. Painting and exercise have been delayed to cope with emergencies, but it is clear that such conditions cannot last long. On November 19, no maintenance work had been carried out for less than two weeks in the two TF-EIR and TF-Livation, as well as the strike to delay the introduction to the rent helicopter, the TF-GNY, due in January. The strike has also affected the activities of the state-of-the-art surveillance aircraft and is therefore unable to perform its legal role or enforce international commitments to the European Commission's National and Coastal Protection Agency, Frontex. A respectable president. There has been no success, and there is no solution after aviators rejected the peacemaker's policy of statehood yesterday. To bring an end to the present emergency, it is vital that we react. The Kjaradei, mentioned earlier, the public interests and the public security. This bill stipulates the family of peace between sides of the dispute and the ban on the workaholics, strike, or other measures intended to enforce the alternative dress code which the bill requires from the time the bill takes effect. The law, however, does not prevent people from making a bargain without the presence of a sentence. Contracts to which the bill covers are suspended until January 4th, 2021, to complete the contracts between them. If this is not taken care of, a sentence shall be determined to determine the discretion of the members of Iceland's Air Force Association. The Court shall complete its work prior to February 17, 2021, if the members have not concluded a bargain before that time. The bill sets out the criteria for a procedure to take into account the decision they made, as further explained at Article 3. The bill. In addition, the bill of this law states that when an issue arises, the Court's decision within the framework set by the bill should be taken into account. There is also the law that it is permitted to promote agreement between parties who have the same right effect as the decisions they make, whether on individual regulations or on their total agreements, and who will not make a decision as to what will be settled within the framework set by the bill. In 1st. 74. g. The Constitution requires the right of men to establish societies for every legal purpose, including unions. That is what 2 mg says. 75. g. that by law the right of men to negotiate their remuneration and other work-related rights. This law should be explained in the light of international agreements validated by Iceland. It is mainly part of the European Convention of Human Rights, which was legalized in this country by law No. 62/1994, but freedom of society is guaranteed in Article 11. His. While the Constitution and the European Court of Human Rights does not directly guarantee the strike court, the Supreme Court and the European Court of Human Rights have felt that it will have some protection on the basis of its interpretation. However, in this case it must be considered that the requirements of the Constitution and of the European Convention on Human Rights are set aside for cutting the strike rights. The three main conditions for which there is a general need are: First, a decrease must be based on law. Second, the legal arrangement needs to be for the sake of the public interest or rights of others. Third, it must be necessary to keep their interests and rights in check and must not go beyond the need to achieve the desired goal. These requirements are met in the case of the present, as further explained in the series with the bill and will not be discussed in detail in my speech. V.E.G. President. I have great respect for the National Guard, its importance in ensuring the safety of the public, and especially for its employees and ships and air cover, who are often in grave danger of looking for and saving the land and at sea. It is true to bear in mind that all the classes that are in the ships and in the upper deck of the mortgage do not have a strike - off point referring to public interests. However, this does not apply to non - crew pilots, but it plays a key role in keeping the airships operational. I don't think that a single class could in this way paralyze the function of the court, as it has now been, thus threatening the safety of the people of the land. So finally I want to mention, specifically, that a strike order is proposed for the sake of the greater good and national security and for the protection of the health and safety of the people and the seafarers. It will be necessary to put these laws immediately to end the present crisis and to ensure that the National Guard can perform its legal functions. It is suggested that the bill be obtained already. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and suggested that the case be followed by this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u3	Mr. President. We have a case for the treatment that the Minister of Justice has rightly described as a protection for the national security, for the safety of the public on sea and land. Today, she describes a helicopter as no longer available. The danger and situation should be clear to all. There is a situation that is responsible for the political responsibility of the Minister of Justice. It has described the situation and the legal process as being the result of its origin. As far as I'm concerned, it is absolutely clear that it is the political responsibility of the Minister of Justice that we are here today putting out the fire that now burns. My question to the Minister of Justice regarding a statement made at Visi Today, in which Air Forces declare that a minister has not been in touch at any point in the case. It is a serious matter, but it is understandable, in view of the circumstances, to enter into the legal arrangement. But it is very serious if it is true that the minister of judicial matters has not been able to communicate with him in any way before this serious situation came up, and I am asking a minister to see if it is right that it has not been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u4	A respectable president. That's what I'm talking about. A senator walks in on the situation today, then there's two days predictable, yesterday and today, at least, that we don't have a helicopter. But there are other ways in which we have ensured national security; with both orders, in connection with private helicopters and helicopters, in order to ensure the best safety in these times. I mean, about whether I've specifically spoken to aviators or an airline pilot, I haven't. I've been following through the government contract board, and I'm not directly involved in the collective negotiations and I don't have a direct approach to the dress-off business. I feel that it is unnatural to interfere directly with them but that they have received good information and have followed closely the position of the issue up to this point. My duty as Minister is to ensure the security of the citizens of the country, to ensure the security of the National Reservation Guard, and I have received detailed information every day since I received this information from the National Relations Service for the surrectum, which is at the hands of the National Convention Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u5	A respectable president. These are interesting answers. Of course, it is not the case when no helicopter is available, and it has been the standard for days, that the safety of the public is guaranteed as best chosen, as the Minister of Justice described here. The situation is simply everything else, and this is happening on her watch. This is taking place on duty, the Minister of Independence, who takes the political responsibility for this suit. The second is that the minister declares that it is normal for her to step into this conversation and this dresser's conversation. Of course, it is true that the longest law is to be avoided. However, a minister standing here on a Friday afternoon preaching a legal law because there is no helicopter available might have considered earlier how this problem should have been solved. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u6	A respectable president. Yes, we're here today with legal rights to ensure national security in the longest of songs, which is the biggest concern of more people, more days around the December/now if the two helicopters are not available. It was the biggest concern of the Land Guard in talking to me. The two-week maintenance need for the helicopter is missing, TF-EIR, and we need to make sure that this hole is not restored to the operations of the helicopters in this country. We're making sure of that here, with a legal system that had a moderate degree and did not intervene during a conversation. There was a conversation until yesterday between parties, and there are aviators who are involved with the National Convention Committee. She does business with aviators and has full authority, and she has no reason to interrupt her until the scurvy talks set sail. There is nothing else in this situation but to ensure the safety of the public by putting the stop to this strike.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u7	Mr. President. It is a serious situation in which we are confronted, so it is important that we be sure that all the necessary conditions are met to justify the procedure of a strike. Despite the strike, I would like to ask the minister what was done to secure the field service. It has been reported in the news that the request for an exception for the pilots has been rejected. It's a system we have in a work battle that works perfectly well. In a strike, requests to the parole committee are sent and if they do not yield a positive result, the conclusion can be drawn to Socialism, and in these circumstances, it is unlikely that such a conclusion could be made after two, three days, perhaps a day if the outcome went well. Now this strike has lasted three weeks, so I want to ask the highest. Minister if it has not been put to the test to go to Social Affairs with the card requests rather than to take the step to the full and bring a bill to the issue. In fact, it brings to mind why there is a need for a head parole request for a class that the minister says is necessary to maintain the core operations of the Landland Guard, because we also have a system, we have a record of the jobs of the state's agencies which are restricted to a strike warrant. The National Guard will record 52 jobs there. It contains e.g. Air Forces. Four such are reserved for strike rights. Why are the pilots not on this list themselves if they are so vital for maintaining the Country Guard? Who is responsible for the lack of pilots on that list?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u8	A respectable president. Hv. Senator, a great deal has been tried and rejected. A great deal of effort was made to prevent safety problems from occurring by postponing drills, such as I traced to a talk. However, the laws on the United States Reservation, including those who are aboard the helicopters and not the pilots who work for the welfare of the country, state what has been called a strike. It's not my responsibility. You can't say I'm responsible for the strike rights. That's what the General will do. It's a 2006 law that needs to be revised in my opinion after we saw this failure. Their objective is perfectly clear that the right to strike should never be prevented from the safety and survival of the National Guard. But that's exactly what's happening, and that's why I'm here, to stop the effect of this strike that obviously has the effect that the right to strike would never have on the security of the people of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u9	A respectable president. I'm a little worried that a minister doesn't seem to understand the question. A record of the work at government institutions, which are reserved for a strike, does not come to the council, it is established at the Board of Directorates, which, for example, are held there. The governor and the remuneration officer of the National Guard, who are probably not listed in the custody of the mortgage law, but who are excluded from a document responsible for which ministers are responsible. How is it possible that aviators do not happen there? And then there was no clear answer to whether rejection of an exception request was sent to a social court to get the final result. And because I have a little time left, what has the government done to call for Dana's help? It is shown in the case of the Guardsa that her helicopter exchange deal with Danish watch ships is merely a matter of calling in helicopters if they are in the area. If the patrol ships are not in the area, they need to go up to the pecking order. Then the government claims to go to Dana's house and ask for helicopters. [[The president calls.]] Has it not been done, to keep Iceland safe?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u10	A respectable president. Hv. Senator, it's only very clear that aviators do not agree with the laws that assume the request for parole and art and committees. [[Up front.]] The law of 94/1986 says this, they do not agree to the agreements of public employees in which these provisions exist. This is clear, and therefore it cannot be put on the following list and cannot be demanded by the current government. It is obvious that the Lawgiver did not foresee this by the legal process at the time according to the report provided by the law, the Law of strike should never have an impact on the safety and survival of the Landland Guard. But it's still legal that there are certain Air Forces in the National Guard who have this right, despite the law, and have been using it with these consequences, and that's why we're stopping it. Has the government turned to foreign parties? We've been in touch with the members that are close to us, including Dani. But it was not considered to answer that need for long-term safety because it is clear that the induction of the new helicopter for the years as well as fixing the TF-EIR, which takes two hours... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u11	Quiet. Let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u12	A Dana support wouldn't have saved it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u13	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister says he has a lot of respect for D.A., and I don't doubt it. But I ask myself, " How important is my priorities for the maintenance and working conditions of the National Reservation Guard to be really with this government? ' We know that the need for maintenance on the choppers of the Gestun is rich, especially her new helicopters, which the Ministry decided to rent on the payoff cutter instead of buying better helicopters that might not have got us into this position at this point. Does a minister not feel responsible for his and his Ministry, not having prepared his field service conditions, better funding, and better helicopters so that this situation had not come up in the middle of a storm?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u14	A respectable president. It was a decision to postpone new helicopters because of the social situation but to rent as good a helicopter for an indefinite period of time, to a year to begin with. This has had no effect on the state of the National Guard today. She's got three helicopters, two of them ready, and very good, and the third to show up for the New Year's Eve. I call to do this business well, to have come to the place at the end of the year to have here three fully prepared, very good, and no provisional machines, as it were. A senator came on rather as good a machine as we would have bought if we had not provided for today's economic crisis. That's why we put it behind us for a year that I believe was a reasonable arrangement. There has been an analysis of the ships' needs and the investments to come next, and this work is done in the final meters. We have two built ships that have gone to sea, either end of the country, to keep safety as far as possible. Of course, buying helicopters takes time. It wouldn't have changed anything about the present situation. And new helicopters need maintenance too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u15	A respectable president. Of course, new helicopters need maintenance too, but as far as I know, we wouldn't have to buy helicopters that need as much maintenance as those we're renting now. V.E.G. A minister cannot come up here and say: We are not responsible for not three helicopters available. It doesn't matter. We have no helicopter right now, and we have no helicopter until Sunday. What does that tell us? Would that have made no difference if we had other helicopters? Would it not have changed the fact that the government had more money than having to rent out her plane to earn money for a legitimate service? Would it not change the outlook of aviators not to be under constant stress, constant stress, and the pressures of having to witness and repair helicopters that need much more than the government is willing to pay? And then we could have a third ship if the government had been angry like 200 million to keep it going. Is the government's responsibility for this situation really no one? [[The president calls.]] Is that what they're telling us, the day they're supposed to put laws on an Air Force strike? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u16	A respectable president. The thing is, we've done a lot better with the National Guard status, and I don't think it's as well done as it is now, or the way it's going to be for the next New Year's Eve. But it doesn't change that no matter how well we're equipped with tools and tools, we can't have an aviators in a strike if we're going to have these tools and tools going to work. That is what we are facing. When aviators strike, the maintenance work as an aviators is down, no matter how new the tools and tools are. We have three relatively new helicopters ready for the New Year's season, which still need the vital service of an aerospace mechanic. I don't know why. A senator is saying that aviators should not just have a strike right or that they should have it and use it so that this situation can develop. [[Up front.]] It wouldn't matter what the situation was on those helicopters as a dog. When it comes to the matter of a pilot's ability to perform a strike, a senator comments on the safety of the inhabitants of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u17	Mr. President. It is a black Friday, indeed, when the inability of the government to legalize the agreements with the U.S. A.A. Air Forces makes the position that we are put between stone and war, and has to choose between respecting the legal strike rights of an aerospaceian and the security of the citizens. It is worth asking, " How could this situation have been prevented? ' Of course, treaties are the clear answer. It's been happening for quite a long time what has been going on, what this debate is all about, but for some reason, it's kind of beaching at the last moment, and apparently, by media coverage, it's supposed to be going on from temporary contracts to one year or three years of age. I would have thought that it would be good for both sides to meet in the middle. But all right, I'm not on negotiation committees, and I don't know all about what went there. For some reason, though, we're in this situation, and I suspect that this is just one team in the years of government failure in Iceland to ensure that the government is in good condition. Remember, this is not something new from the needle. As mentioned earlier, there were laws that prohibited aviation in this mission to strike, laws from 1968, which were removed from 2006. At that time, 2006, three current senators and ministers agreed that they had been removed, including No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, and the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Guðla Þórðarson, though at present. A president and a what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, with the help. I couldn't get into the stitches on why, but I think this is an important point in the context. I also feel that it is important that we look at only the context involved in these men's work. It's been very bad for a very long time, a lot of stress, a lot of employees, and a lot too small of aviators, I understand. In addition, the use of new Airbus H225 species has been received, I understand, approximately double the maintenance need for older helicopters, in part because they are newer and more complex and have much more equipment and are also larger than in part because these helicopters are known as certain defects. There's been a serious plane crash problem in Norway and South Korea, and it's an indication that helicopters have a tendency to break off in flight, which is a very bad quality for helicopters, I have to say. As a result, these helicopters need to be maintained far more than helicopters in general, and these helicopters were rented. I don't know why they were selected, perhaps because no one else in the world wants to use them, with any exception, usually because of similar conditions, that it was cheap. On top of that, we have to say that when we talk about the helicopter TF-Long, we need to realize that she's sitting in pieces right now. It's not usable. It'll probably never be used again in Iceland. It's been billions of years since the DLA operation. TF-SIF is being rented on extra projects to try to finance other projects, and even then there's not enough money to keep everything going. In these circumstances, airport pilots are expected to stay out of helicopter service 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and most of the maintenance services are scheduled for the day's work. When we set aside lunchtime, lunchtime, and so forth, it may be 5 to 6 hours a day, effective days. Any other maintenance, which is added because these helicopters are larger and more complex, etc., and, in addition, fixtures, is something that must be handled at some point at these shifts, perhaps primarily about which the issue is. The cumulative maintenance need is reported for one or two weeks. I'm not surprised. I'm not surprised that this is the situation when the National Guard is unfashionable in this serious and dangerous way, and the pressure is just sliding over into the mechanics. Then comes the question: Should the receivers, emergency operators, those who perform important security services for the country and for the whole country have the right to strike? Some people say they don't. In fact, I'm thinking that if everyone, including police and pilots at the mortgage, etc., had a right to strike, it might be a lot easier for them to make deals. If so, it would not be this situation that comes up in a series of shocks that they are set against a wall as if the nurses were put against a wall not so long ago. Then there is the proverb: You are so important that you need to sacrifice, but you are not important enough to make a deal with you. It's somehow so bad a political bitch and then a poor approach to the business because not only will there be a need for maintenance in the helicopters but it'll also be in the working environment because no one will work under such a state of constant stress in the long run without breaking something. You can imagine what it's like when the pressures and dissatisfactions in this environment are in place, and then political bites in here will be solved by the order that people are ordered to come to work without making a new deal, and they will just have to do so well in their jobs. That's not a good way to solve this problem. I'm worried about this situation, and I've been worried about it for a very long time. But somehow it is so important to be safe, but it is not important for them to be sure that they are comfortable at work. This is not to be done so that there are the right numbers of people with the right skills, enough money to manage the maintenance, and they do not have to go all over the world begging after work to finance the legal work. Honestly, Mr President, I don't understand this approach. Somehow we're in this problem. We are now being placed between a stone and a sledgehammer: National security and air strike conditions and aviation rights. Of course, I'd like to say no to this, and I guess I'd like to do it unless I hear a very good reason that this is the right way. But I haven't heard them. I haven't even heard anything that indicates that this could be the right way. Of course, the right thought of this must be to resolve disputes. It is a matter of discretion, to some extent, something solved with collective agreements, but in the long run, we also need to consider how the government is being used and remember that it is not always used well. Let's just look at the facts. The helicopters are referred to as not fully in a usable condition at this time. That happens many times. Often, there are no helicopters because they have been used too much, they are all in maintenance time, and sometimes because of projects that may not have been rescued, perhaps they were not needed, at times driving people. We all know about these examples. We've seen them in the media, even this year, and I'm not sure that this is really a good thing. It has also come to the point that we need to consider whether or not the administrative situation has already taken place on the land cover, not that there is something wrong, but I'm not sure that everything is wrong, in view of the fact that this non-sustaining failure has taken place for a long time, and in addition to our ability to work, e.g. is now, I think, the third time in two years being advertised by security and quality manager. That doesn't sound very good. I just wanted to put this context into motion because it's important that we understand the situation in there and why this gradade may have come from more than just salary and related materials. No doubt there are some reasonable reasons why the government doesn't want to do everything completely, and then it's just to solve it, for which there are negotiation committees, but for us to be put in this position somehow over and over again, that people are not considered important enough to be able to negotiate with it properly, but to be legally fixed on, in return, is ugly politics. It's boring, it's unacceptable, and we shouldn't agree to this kind of thing. We're supposed to be doing good. We're supposed to be well financing the Landland Guard. We're supposed to make sure people have a right to strike and a right to deal, and they're not supposed to be in this position, especially on a day like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. And I can say that it's black Friday. It's never fun to put a law on a strike, ever. Hv. A senator said that they could not have made a normal bargain. Then I wondered, " What's a normal bargain? What Is Normal Choice? Is it normal for aviators at the National Guard to be the only union in the state that has direct links in the collective agreements of any company in the city? It doesn't seem natural to me, and I find it very unusual to ask for it at a time in which this one has reached biographer contracts, and if I understand the right thing, the number of flight workers has increased, that we here in this hall are going to join some small class that wants something different and completely different and more than the offer to other employees. A respectable president. I'm asking why. A senator: What's a normal bargain?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u19	Mr. President. I don't know any better than people in Iceland have decided their freedom of companionship, and in that they include freedom of society. the right to organize their labor struggles in the way they like. Whether it is normal for this particular group of members of the state to negotiate with others or not, it is not really my business to say, I don't even think it's the Senate. This is, in any case, the situation we have today, and while doing so, it may be normal to meet people on normal grounds on the grounds of which they suggested. Of course, talking to people about not being allowed to change the arrangement. Perhaps there is something to wonder about. What's a normal deal? Is that not treaties where everyone can be at peace with each other? Is it not treaties that are made on equal terms by those who disagree, sit down, discuss with one another, and deal with the problem? I trust that it has been done, that there has been every attempt to do so until last night, if I haven't misunderstood it. But apparently it wasn't enough. Somewhere, it stopped. Some have been complaining that at present aviators are extremely desirable. But I don't know, when people are being called out and put their lives in jeopardy, what is a good thing to discuss may be difficult. At any rate, the state could have been more flexible, perhaps aviators could also have been more flexible. In any case, this should have been solved. That's really just the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u20	A respectable president. I agree with that, and of course I would have wanted to see that these parties had been signed. It was tragic to see it in the news yesterday that it had not worked. As far as I'm concerned, that's the best I can do. But I'm just gonna say I wish. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to help you work hard and get involved. I hope we make it real fast and good today. Hv. The senator spoke of purchases and terms and about fairness and how far to go. He also mentioned nurses. If we in this room are going to discuss what is a suitable salary for any class, we can think about the type of union that is now in strike and other classes that have done the same, comparing the salary of these parties with what pressure they have come from. I agree this is national security. Therefore, I sincerely hope that we will succeed in overcoming this issue as rapidly and effectively as I feel the need to set laws on strikes. Of course, that's totally pathetic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u21	Mr. President. Just to make it perfectly clear, I wasn't the one who started discussing the purchase and the interest of nurses and the airport pilots. [[Up front.]] People have the right to negotiate their purchases and benefits, and I think it's very bad that the Council is going to intervene in court. I've said that every time this government has decided to set laws on the rights of the people to negotiate. [[Up front.]] - Maybe not this group. But that has been done. [[Up front.]] We have to look at the facts. The fact is, people have this right to negotiate. Nurses may be a group that is hard to talk about right now because they have kept many people alive in the country and, in fact, always, but especially through this pandemic. Still, they were really set up and needed to accept not having a good deal but just some judgment. I think there's something wrong with all of Iceland's dumb talk as long as we get into this crisis. I can't figure out what journey we're on if we have to meet here on Friday at an emergency meeting, so to speak, to take over the people's rights to sign them. I don't like it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u22	A respectable president. I just have to come up here and fix a few things by then. A senator when he's starting to talk about the helicopters of the Country Guard as a bit of a fixture. I'm willing to take an extended discussion on the Navy of Nicka later. That's just not what we're talking about today. The National Guard would never have used these helicopters unless they were trusted. And it would never have been approved to rent helicopters until the Air Force had made sure they were safe. They are used worldwide, approved, Witnessed, and the new helicopters we could have bought and we plan to buy could have been of the same kind. These are new helicopters that the goose agreed to replace the older ones with the same money, on a good deal, and they've made good use of us. It'll be great at New Year's and early January, when we have the third fully equipped helicopter we have to deal with, just because of the situation. A senator described the first helicopter we know is old. But we have three full choppers here at the beginning of the year, and that's the situation we're not going to risk because of a plane crash. Hv. A senator also uses false reports that the National Guard is asking money for other countries. They're participating in the international cooperation of the Frortex Institute. And that is why the aircraft is used in places other than here, that is part of our commitments to the European Border Institute, Frontex, and that is part of what the National Guard is doing to fulfill our commitments. Besides, it's wrong. A senator says there's a lot of employees in the Agency. It's simply wrong. We all wanted to see deals. I agree with that. Senator. But I wondered, " How long will it take? ' A senator waiting?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u23	Mr. President. Is Airbus H225 helicopters a fixer? I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister can explain that. If these are good and sought after helicopters, how is it that we have been given much new helicopters, new, much bigger, much more perfect helicopters technically, at the same price as old, really in exchange? Why could such a good deal be reached? Could it possibly be that it has something to do with how few people in the world want to use this species? It is true that the European Air Safety Agency has witnessed it. It is true that the U.S. Air Security Agency has witnessed it. True, it was after one of the two gearboxmakers was actually banned and replaced by secondary students studying metals in a gearbox, and the maintenance requirements for the gearbox have been doubled - I think I'm right to say that it's doubled more than anything. But in any case: Might it be possible that they have something to do with the unpleasant use of these helicopters, especially in Norway, since these helicopters are rented? It may be difficult to put them at a price there, and it may be easier to arrive, e.g. A fire helicopter from here for the price of it, perhaps. At any rate, when I call them fixtures, I'm not saying they're necessarily insecure, but their safety story is worse than their safety story of 737 MAX and their risk of failure is greater than 737 MAX because at least there was a possible response to and avoid an accident with proper arrests. This is a situation many warn, many people feel uncomfortable, and not acknowledging it is a little silly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u24	A respectable president. The National Guard would never have approved these helicopters if they had not been fully secure. They would be very good for the work they are doing here. The landlord had unused perfect helicopters for the position of the oil market, which led to our having them at this price. We're here to use it, and we've got three helicopters ready, and we're here to speak up the Marine Corps as an institution, and it's doing a very good and urgent job. But, hey. A senator does not answer my question about how long he will wait. He doesn't want to see the law on strike, which I understand, it's an emergency. We didn't say that a month ago when they first broke down. It's an emergency to resort to strike laws. But we do so to ensure the safety of the public because if it had not been a strike in the past few weeks, the need for maintenance would have been maintained on one of the helicopters that could now have been active. Songing is not the first choice, it is no second choice, but it is the position we are facing, but the driving. A senator believes that he will no longer sit at the table and wait and let the aviators continue in a strike with the long - term consequences he has on the preservation capacity of the Marine Guard. By the end of December 14, no helicopter would have been available again for maintenance purposes. Then we couldn't have introduced the third helicopter at the beginning of the new year. A strike would mean postponement of exercise, and staff training would last, and so on. There are the long - term consequences that will take time for the next month if this is not resolved quickly. Contracts sailed on the coast last night. It's just a fact. Hv. A senator here talks like the state should have just offered more, given everything. As long as Illelands got 10% economy out of their government contracts not getting anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u25	Mr. President. I'd appreciate it if I did. A minister wouldn't give me opinions. First of all, I wasn't talking D.C. down. I think the agency is important. It plays an incredibly important role, and I don't know any better than I spent 15 minutes or just about talking about making it more powerful, with more staff, with better equipment, and more money to work. I don't know any better, but somebody might be able to go back and check it out. But when we look at reality, it's like people worry about these H225 helicopters. They worry real. I don't buy it that the condition of oil markets is that many oil companies in Norway have suddenly stopped buying H225 helicopters buying AgustWestland helicopters instead of just because there's a bad situation on oil markets. I'm sorry, I just can't believe it. I don't even know what to say anymore. Of course it's the highest responsibility. Minister to resolve these battles directly or indirectly. Of course, this should not be the case at the National Recontinental Guard. And, yes, it was on a beach yesterday. But maybe if things had been somehow different, maybe not always startled by the advice of putting people up against a wall in a position like this, then maybe we wouldn't be here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u26	Mr. President. There is no awareness of the importance of landkeeping and the availability of helicopters when needed and the safety of the people. It is unmistakably important that our activities return to normal as soon as possible. Seamen, rescue crews, people to travel between parts of the country, as well as those who live in places where there is a low priority to trust in the helicopters of the Gestun, these people living in an unacceptable insecurity of these days. It's a bad feeling to know about sailors at sea and there's no helicopter available if there's any danger. In short notice, natural disasters often strike, and accidents do not precede them. V.E.G. The government now wants to intervene in a peace struggle by suing a legal issue with the U.S. Air Forces. Six of the 18 aviation works are in a strike that has lasted since November 5, but negotiations began in February. They started ten months ago. The U.S. Air Forces at the National Guard wondered that governments have not contacted them before they agreed to set laws on the current strike. According to Guðmundur Úlfar Jónsson, president of Iceland's Air Forces Association, in a conversation with the RUS News Office on the subject, and to the top. At any point in the case, a minister of justice had no contact with the Society. It is most critical when such disputes take place. A minister describes the seriousness of the media, even in advertising on community media, but before making such a serious decision to impose a law on employment issues, he fails to look into matters from the first hand. It is one of the most important roles of the State at any given time to secure the country. V.E.G. There, a minister of justice plays a key role. Now there's no chopper ready to take off if somebody calls for it. Even if this bill was to be written right now, only two helicopters would be available for ten days in December. The effect of the strike will be maintained for the next weeks and months. But how can it be, President, that such a situation has arrived on Iceland, in the North Sea, where the helicopters on alert are so important to sea and land rescues? Why are we in this position? I can't see better than I can see. Minister of Justice has fallen asleep on his watch in this regard. In this case it must be emphasized that the national Convention Court is protected at 74.3 p.m. The constitution and Article 11. European Convention of Human Rights. What we need to weigh at the General Assembly is all that has been fully developed at the negotiation table in order to justify the legislation on human rights to fight for their rights and to vote for their employers. The ILO International Work Institute has directed to the Icelandic government to avoid such measures in the longest legal practice. Very rich, well-founded and well-founded reasons need to be established in the event of any intervention, and to accept the terms of the legal contract of the remuneration agreements. It's the responsibility of a contract to make deals. If they fail to do so, there are various laws to force a decision to be made. All such procedures must be completed before the intervention of the legislature can be considered. Hv. A top-of-the-art Board of Education has to go over it well before the 2nd. the bill on whether treaties will not be reached and all other resources will be used. Courts have not refused that the legislatator will intervene as long as public interests are at stake or an economic catastrophe exists. In this regard, we can refer to the Supreme Court in the ASI case against the State, No. 167/2002, where judicial requirements for the definition of public interest and clear evidence are presented, for such intervention to be considered justifiable. A widespread negative effect is the inevitable consequence of strikes and strikes is intended to affect society to that end. In this process, employees want to recognize the importance of their work and to be motivated for dressbacks. The legislation to stop strike action has exemplary values and affects the entire labour market. This is also true of a small number of professions, as is the case with whom we are speaking. For legislation to be justified, it must be ensured that the contract table will not be reached any further and that public interest in justice will be high. Individuals have the freedom to form unions and, at the same time, freedom to support union action. They are human rights, freedom of society, and freedom to fight for their rights. Determination of human rights may be justified, but the evidence is that there is an adequate level of public interest. That question must be clearly answered before the bill rules out. It is not enough for governments to act on the contract table to make an emergency, and there is plenty of reason to cut the knot by taking human rights from employees. Their obligation is to achieve contracts to ensure public security, to ensure that there are helicopters in order to handle emergencies. Their responsibility is theirs. The right to strike is considered one of the most important things to strengthen the freedom of trade unions and in the European Convention of Human Rights to depend on only the limitations of the laws and the need for national security, the public or economic success of the nation, for the protection of human health or morality or rights and freedom. A great deal of work is being done for members of the committee. The General and Education Committee, now to address every rock on Friday night, to determine whether to apply legislation in this difficult matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u27	Madam President. The Minister of Justice has said today that the safety of the public and seafarers cannot be jeopardized. The government agreed on for that reason this morning's bill to stop an aerospace manor from working. The reason is that we do not risk public safety and seafarers in danger. Similarly, the evidence is that the work is a protection for public safety and must be restored without delay. Madam President. I agree with these words of the Minister of Justice. This and for the same reasons is supported by a group of restoration officers. There are important public interests, security costs, people's lives. It has to be said, as it is, that today is simply a crisis. The right to strike is important. It includes basic rights, but it no longer carries the life and health of the public in the country. They know well the classes that do not have the right to strike because of the importance and importance of their work in behalf of the public in the country. But the evidence of public safety and of those at sea, of course, works both ways. Of course, it is the absolute obligation of the government to ensure the safety of the public, to ensure the safety of those who are at sea. In today's situation, the question must be, Has the government not failed to have that basic obligation, since this situation has come up today, and we look forward to legalization? Actually, I think the answer to that is completely obvious. It is not just the minister's job, it is not just the Minister of Justice to stand here today and respond to a situation that has come up. Her political responsibility goes far beyond that. Its political responsibility is to protect the security of the people of the land, to protect and protect sailors, the people of the country, especially in the country. Her responsibility is that a helicopter is always available for this. If any content is to be found in the words of the minister and of the government, how can governments ever allow this to happen? This problem was to grow out of control, so that today, and for a few days that you hear, the safety of the public has not been guaranteed. The safety of seafarers has not been guaranteed. Must it not be a great, heavy political responsibility to let that position be drawn up? The D.A. helicopters are not available and have not been available. It has simply been a disaster for us that nothing has happened in the past. That's lucky. Is that an acceptable situation? This is a fundamental case in which I feel that governments have not maintained their basic obligation; to protect the security of the people of the land. It is of little value to stand here and talk about what the government is doing. The government is doing nothing else today, the Minister of Justice is not doing anything but dealing with problems that have been drawn up on her own watch and which is her responsibility to prevent it from becoming. This is a situation that has been created on the government watch and is responsible for the Minister of Justice. There is negotiations in a profession that is so important that when it cancels, the public's safety is due to its safety. Why, then, does the list of government officials not provide a solution before we face today's situation? This issue cannot be drawn up in ways that those who declare that the government has failed in this case or against the strike rights. A major political concept is whether the government has accepted its commission to care for these interests. This is a bill being provided to extinguish fires that are on fire because of work or lack of work, neglect, self - control. The strike has been standing for some time, and it is known, it should be known that this situation may arise and arise. A minister in such a situation cannot stand here and speak as a savior. Sadly, the experience is different. President. This bill will probably be legal later. In my opinion it has to happen, so it has to be made that there is an undefeated situation. But for the security concerns involved, I will request that the Minister of Justice introduce a meeting of the General Committee afterwards. I'm assuming the case is being handled on the board. I will request that the Minister of Justice appear before the Commission meeting and answer for this position. They will discuss how this assessment of the security of the people in the country is conducted by the Minister of Justice. What were the views that led to the conclusion that this problem was passed on for a long time? These are urgent questions that require answers, and in that position the government holds a political responsibility. She cannot just step out here and now and talk about security gains when she's putting the law on the strike. They ran a long way back on the timeline. Why were these fundamental safety benefits not guided earlier and prevented the amazing situation of not flying helicopters, and they haven't been for a few days, when a person is understood? These are the questions I think we need to discuss with the case in the following committee. We need to see this in the eyes of an emergency that will fail today, but the project must at the same time be that it cannot and must never repeat itself. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u28	A respectable president. I'm very kind and obliged to meet you. The General and Education Committee will follow and answer for the situation whether it is in general about the state of the National Guard or about the exact state of today's facility. Right away. On the other hand, a senator says that this law is not to protect people, that they are not responding to the exact position that exists today, which is, of course, wrong. The greatest concern is that by the middle of the next month and by the long term lack of staff work as well as the inability to introduce new helicopters to start a new year. So we are responding to the government by entering the final part of the world because the disputers could not solve the problem. It could then be discussed whether day or day had been reasonable in the situation. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. A senator himself stepped into a long time earlier when treaties were still at the table, and conversation was still under way? Was the Law proper then? I think we're doing some moderate here. We are taking care of a moderate legal approach and interlocking a problem where treaties are not reached and protecting the security of the citizens by the long-term U.S. National Rescue and Security Navy. I'm not a party to the negotiation. I've been paying close attention to this for safety, for visualisation, for long-term effects, and that's why it's important to interrupt today. As a result of the crisis that has developed and the survival helicopters were not as effective as they are supposed to be, conversations sailed to the coast last night, where they tried to meet all the routes leading up to a much longer, and would have more long - term effects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u29	Madam President. I'm gonna let me hope that the Minister of Justice is here with a twist because it would be serious if she thought it was about what's going on today and no other day before that. Of course it's been in the pipes for a long time. They've seen us for quite a long time that this could happen, and it's a political responsibility. It's sobering, and I'd like to say that it's uncomfortable, to hear the minister talk about it, when we're talking about the security of people, whether day or night matters in that context. That's what he does. A day or so is not an acceptable argument when we are talking about security. V.E.G. One minister says that it involves a moderate step on her to stand here today with a bill in her hands but has also declared that at no time she would listen to an aviator's viewpoint, which might have been more important in the spirit of an average and a much milder way of listening to and hearing the evidence. But to be said again, I support this case. This case is supported by a group of restoration organizations simply because of the interests involved. They need to take immediate action in view of the seriousness of the situation. But I am directed to the Minister of Justice to keep it in mind and not to speak in such a way that it is a situation that arose this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u30	A respectable president. That's why. A senator who looks out of my words about day to or from day to day. I was not discussing security or the importance of rescue helicopters being available at all times. That's my job. That's where I'm responsible, and that's why I'm standing here today with this legal bill, because negotiations were on the beach yesterday. They had a beach last night, and then it was full of it. Therefore, I believe that it is right to bring this bill today and be granted, which I sincerely hope will happen, in order to ensure that, in time, this strike could not be the effect on the Homeland Security operation. The damage this strike could have on the welfare of the Landland Guard and it has done a tremendous piece of work to get it done that way, because we know how important the saving power of the safe house is, how many lives this operation has saved and how important it is, and that a strike should not be able to affect the security, rescue and police activities of the National Guard as it was intended for the law. But the law didn't guarantee that it couldn't happen. [[Up front.]] So here we are discussing laws that are relevant to each day that could arise in December and January and February. I simply don't feel justified on the basis of the 2006 law's objective that one profession can take advantage of this right and put the fortune into this position. But I thought it right, since they have the right to see the negotiations go on the beach, to see them deny the proposals and the peace that was tried to do which is right first, and to seek all ways to ensure the safety of the people on the way. It sailed on a beach. That is why we are about to set laws to ensure that aviators can do as soon as possible their important work, so that the funeral of the mortgage and the work there will not be harm to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u31	Madam President. It's kind of like that when you listen to the top. The minister that there is reason to remind her that she has been in the Ministry of Justice for some time, and her party has had it in charge of her custody even longer. If it is her opinion that her political responsibility for the security of the nation has been put at the risk of what we see here today is the responsibility of the class, but not of the minister who brings the whole sect, it is somewhat different. It is not that this problem existed yesterday, not last week, not last month, and not last year. This situation has been drawn up and the conclusion is on its watch, and it holds political responsibility for justice ministers. The Congress is standing here today to accept a bill to turn off a fire that has been made a happy fire on her watch. It's the situation and it's serious. It is my wish that we can get further along with this conversation and make sure that the minister will turn this problem off and get us to the point that we are looking at this position in the long run.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u32	President. The right to strike is one of the most important weapons in pay. We lawyers are under obligation to protect him. However, a major responsibility by the government is to secure the security of the citizens, and this, unfortunately, may at times conflict with the results of an aerodynamic strike at the National Guard. The tribunal that the labor movement has been fighting over the years and the centuries is guaranteed by the coalition contract of the Icelandic community. There we sit down and try to reach all the agreements before a strike strikes, and, unfortunately, the weapon must be taken, even afterwards. Sadly, they have not been able to cope with the struggle that is the opposite of this bill. Last night, conversations sailed to the coast after a marathon meeting in which hopes of things, including the state - of - state struggles, of being caught together, failed. It's time to put the law on a strike. It would be irresponsible not to do so. Iceland must always have rescue helicopters available, even more at this time of year and in this climate. The proposed proposal assumes that the people will continue to have time to sit together and achieve contracts by January 4, otherwise the matter will be subject to a judicial hearing. I sincerely encourage all negotiaters to make the best use of their time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u33	A respectable president. We've seen all too often in the last few years how a government contract board somehow manages to sail through business ventures, so we've been able to reach the full limit of the prenup. The Ministers' terms for which the unions hear are given so that they do not participate in negotiations. This is how the ball has kept rolling, and now it's time for one more class, and the difference is that we fell off the precipice and that's why we're standing here in this hall discussing the possibility of legalization. Of course, those involved were to resolve matters before coming. Now the second party of the controversy has its strongest weapon, its legalization, to -- what? Do government negotiations continue to promote good works? This is not a good step. I was shocked when I heard the highest part. Minister on the matter, we're gonna give you a heads-up. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy says, by permission of the President: ▪ Hv. A senator here talks like the state should have just offered more, given everything. As long as Ictellands got 10% economy out of their government contracts, they didn't get anything. So is the plan to try to squeeze some economy out of the class? Do we have a legal bill on the strike of the cast so that the state can achieve 10% economy out of aviation at the same time as the class runs, like the others working on flights, very low? It's enough to mention the fall of WOW and then everything that's been followed. It's not about a wealthy park to pay for an aviators at a job market. Now it seems that they should be squeezed out of it, as the minister called it. I just want to discuss the conditions that must be met in a moderate way and, as the minister went over, are three. First, the defect must be based on law. Second, it should be in behalf of the public interest and rights of others, and third, it must be necessary. I'd just like to step up on the need and, in particular, what we discussed here, me and the highest. Minister, on the issue of if a pilot could not have been assigned to operate in spite of a strike without resorting to legislation. It has been observed that the exception of the National Guard has been rejected four times during the last three weeks in the strike. In other words, the union has not agreed to the Agency's request for an exception in a strike so that pilots can perform their duties. It is a very simple solution to such a conclusion to socialization. This could have been decided in a short period of time, a few days, so in all the three - week period of the strike, it could have been tested to see if the minimum operations of the Landland Guard could be ensured on the basis of the legal process of a work dispute. I didn't get a clear answer from the Minister on this, but it sounded like it wouldn't have been tested. I expect a full-scale and educational committee will get a little more out of the way for this. Then there may be a matter of larger political responsibilities. If this class in the National Guard is of prime importance to the helicopter team, why on earth must head search for a reserve for some minimal human being? The National Guard Act states that those who perform law enforcement work must not strike or participate in a strike. The number of people on the ground who are needed to maintain function is thus covered by the section of the staff that operates in the helicopter itself. Therefore, for these groups and groups in various other institutions, each year there is a list of jobs at the institutions of the state that are free of strike warrants. At the National Guard, that list counts as 52 jobs. There are most prominent jobs related to defense activities, so safety areas are prominent, but in the office and airports here in Reykjavík, a number of jobs are listed. And without anything to minimize their importance, there are such things as lager managers, payroll managers, and staff managers. They are important to preserve the Agency's activities, but they do not sail on the coast, although these workers are on strike for a few days, on the other hand, the staff manager's strike would not remain in the privacy of the National Reservation, as is the case today. Therefore, the General and Education Committee must ask this: In view of what the minister now says, how is it that this group of staff is necessary to ensure the safety of seafarers and the safety of the public, that a section of aviation is always available, regardless of what has been done? This is the way it is done in institutions that need to keep a lamp. Then I'd like to mention a little bit the overexhaustible situation we're in right now for the weekend, to watch that no helicopter is available. Here's a point I think it's normal to see a full committee like the first, and that's what the work circle would have been to overcome that situation. What is the task circle of getting Danish authorities involved in the United States to direct a patrol ship closer to the country so that there could be a rescue helicopter in this area? It is shown in interviews with government officials of the National Guard that it is not a matter of quality care to request a rescue helicopter to this country in particular. However, on the basis of a contract with Denmark, it can consult ships near the country. What is involved in asking for such help? And perhaps the most important question: Why wasn't it done? Because even though a great deal had been solved earlier this week, the situation had always been that there were no rescue helicopters available for this weekend. How could that happen?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-27-27.u34	President. This has been a detailed and extensive discussion of the important role of the Land Guard, the importance of its workers, the importance of equipment, the importance of that we, all of us, are safe and secure for all of us. Under that word, I take heart. V.E.G. Today, a minister of justice goes to great lengths in the matter of security. This it does by serving at the legislature of the legislature to stop a mechanic's strike, an airliner who does not count as hundreds or thousands, but there are 18. I agree with what other members of Congress have said in this discussion, Madam President, and I don't think it's a reason to repeat unless they agree with the views presented here in the form of questions to the highest degree. Minister of Justice on where this is the highest security. The Minister of Justice has been in the past ten months, for it is the time for negotiations with aviators. Where has the safety point been, the whole area has been concerned with the highest level of motion. Minister of Justice today? Where have they been since the 5th of November, which is the day 6 of the 18 U.S. Maritime Guard began a strike? I ask, and call for priorities when it comes to national security priorities. Minister of the entire government. Where has that priorities been for all this time? The International Work Programme has repeatedly concluded about the intervention of governments into the strike rights of the working class. Here we are here today to discuss a bill that is about putting laws on an aviator strike and, as my former associates in the left motions know well, the right has been political and political parties. Although it is a profession that operates under public safety devices that should always be available to ensure the safety of the public, the basic right to the working class must still be maintained. I'm sorry if it turns out to be the case with my former partner in the left hand movement, ◯ green supply accept it strictly. It is also sad to see the highest government. The traveling minister of justice acts in a way that is evident when the use of aviation equipment by aviators has been severely reduced in the disasters that have taken place since spring in the tourism industry and in the whole air industry. It is impossible to admit that the thought of a person who is here, conscious or conscious, is taking advantage of the extremely difficult position of aviators to strengthen his contract and to look for alternatives to working for a government agency, such as the National Guard. If that's the case, it's a pretty bad way to treat this class, to take advantage of the present opportunity. Madam President. It is so, and it is a fact that can't be questioned, that if the penalty rights of one cast is actually being undermined by another class's strike rights, all classes. That's a very serious thing. We do not need to recall the struggles the working class has fought over the years, decades, and centuries to be at peace, preserving its enormous right to strike. They're supposed to turn their feet away from the vital fight. It's got the highest. The Minister of Justice spoke of a security matter related to the helicopter of the National Guard, which is truly a need for discussion that we must have as soon as possible. She says that she is looking forward to buying a new helicopter this January. I want to say something. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, mentioned earlier in the discussion that they planned to purchase, if necessary, is worthy of a discussion at the council Hall because of the accidents that have taken place, unfortunately, and are linked to the species of helicopters involved. Madam President. I'm not going to have this speech much longer. I also agree with the comments that have been made during the discussion on the responsibility of ensuring safety in the field service. That responsibility is in the hands of none other than the highest. Minister of Justice, who has known and observed the issue we are considering today, and has had every opportunity to intervene in a professional way, to prevent the position we are today, in order to show respect for the extraordinary importance of the staff of the Country Guard, and is important to all of us. Wherever we live, whatever the weather may be, the field service and those where we work are important, and we have to show it real respect. We can't talk about the safety issues over and over and over and over and over and over again, but then pass on the struggle that has taken place in the past ten months. I know all that long-range hanger as the ultimate. The minister of justice spoke about in his speech and answers, but it must be borne in mind that there are various ways to help resolve matters from the highest point of view. Minister of Justice. It is a responsibility to have not done it before, to have not intervened, or joined before conversation, or to bring together people to have conversations to promote a more real solution to others than to be on a table for the Allied bill to intervene in this class's strike rights. I wish. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for their work and coverage of the bill. I hope that there will also be a clear and good way to be torn to the viewpoints of the working class and the strike right, which is important to all of us.
