ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u1	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council to be held if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u2	Borist has received a letter from a foreign and developing co-work minister asking for every request to give a written answer to a covering query. 1164, on contracts of government funds, from Biri Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Minister, Minister of Health, Transport, Industrial and Organic Affairs, Minister of Justice and Ministers of Social Affairs and Child Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u4	A respectable president. Following the fall by well over a decade ago, a number of practical measures were being taken to improve the welfare of the people of the land. The correction, as it was called, is an example of a government operation that paid billions of people and older generations. The failure was spoken of as a failure that justified this massive transfer of property, but the younger generation was not corrected. That generation is still struggling to invest in housing. That generation is the first generation of Icelanders for decades who have a lower standard of living than the previous generation. Correction and crushing debt did not reach this generation. They were not involved in the debt race that took place in the preceding years. In the room that has now hit a wall, she received no favors either. President. I am deeply worried that we are going to leave our young ones behind again. I am deeply concerned about the inactivity of the government, which I feel regarding the social security of young people, and that it will lead to an even deeper generation of land quality, that young people and especially students who do not receive government resources to the level of others will be forced to make a further debt and that they will not provide the end of it. The insecurity that the young generation enjoys today is unacceptable, Mr. President. This government seems determined not to answer this generation for its future economic ruin. Students who have truly failed because of the pandemic's effects are left with no answer to financial security unless they are offered the opportunity to be more in debt by vacation loans that no one asked for. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Will she really leave yet another trip with young people?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I think there's a reason to say the first thing that's going to happen to the correction. A senator made that the subject of his inquiry was in the history of the previous government during 2013-2016, making it the highest possible. The prime minister may be badly responsible for this. However, many of the measures taken by the present government have been taken to meet young people, including those involved. because of what happened when we went to a study of how the standard of living in the country has developed between 1991 and 2017 and has now been updated to 2018. It tells us that the younger generation has already reached its standard of living. For one thing, we have undergone measures to improve child - welfare and prolong maternity. In the council, there is a bill on the Scholars' Education Education Fund, which is, in fact, a strengthening system for students. All that action is very effective in dealing with young people. In case of a moment. A senator, however, is particularly involved in the summer ahead. However, it can be noted that as already taking action to create 3,000 government and rural jobs that I hope will be advertised as soon as possible. They're under the Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. Similarly, a tremendous injection has been put in the New World Fund of 80 million students. K. 500 billion, of course. K. and will create 500 new jobs in that area and upstairs are plans for summer education for students who can use it to speed up their education. But I think we're going to have to take the position to figure out if anyone will land between a ship and a dock despite all this massive operation and meet that group of students in some way. What can be said about the fact that much has already been prepared that will be met by a large number of students during the coming summer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u6	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister here gives a talk about all the things she considers the government to be doing for young people and students but the highest. Yet, the government has not had a clear answer to what will happen to students who do not get a job during the summer. We know that there will be quite a few students who don't get jobs this summer, that's where they are. That makes it the highest. Governments have not undergone the clear requirement of the student movement that students live in financial security. Wiss students about their financial security hardly reach the next month. What message do young people have that they should wait for hope and hope to be given even government support? Why is this inconceivable by the government to make no doubt that students will be entitled to unemployment? It's the highest. Prime Minister may simply agree with the highest. Minister of Social Affairs that these students should not be given money for not doing anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u7	Mr. President. I must make a comment to that expression why. A senator who says that the government thinks he is doing things, when I review all the issues that have been taken care of during this term and has truly benefited young children and have been fighting for years, if not decades, for decades. I quote them specifically in the birthworm and education bill, and much more. Hv. A senator needs to respect the facts when they come up here. She acts as if there were no operations at 3500 summer jobs. I'm pretty sure that's what most students want to do, that they want to have a job for the summer, and especially some interesting work. Right away. A senator makes it appear that going to summer school is not a real operation. A senator simply wasn't right. What I said before is that, of course, there will be action to catch those who land between a ship and a dock in this operation. This process is with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Education and Culture, and I'm aware that it will introduce further implementations this week. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u8	A respectable president. Once again, I come up and then ask the same questions that I will do, come over and over and ask the highest. Before I receive satisfying answers, Prime Minister: When will the time come for poorer and the worst - handed older citizens to receive justice from their plate? V.E.G. Two or three years ago, it was announced by the prime minister. Is it not their time now, or will their time not be in good shape, not in a down cycle, and not at all in a Covid-19 epidemic? Is it a course with this government that this worst group still waits in line for food, and then how long? What about those who do not come in order after food or who do not get it sent home, what should they do? Then you'll just wait and tighten the belt. It is no problem with this government to add 50 million more to very large media belonging to rich people and political powers, totaling 400 million, but only 6% of it to the relief agencies, the institutions that help those in poverty, and very few with food and necessities. How is it that 400 million people cannot be placed there just as many as 400 million to the average media? Why is it that there are only 25 million for these groups? How will they be divided, and what will be the difference after all these charities have been divided? I'm afraid there'll be pennies. A social aid package for your government, chief. Prime Minister, only 3◯5%, while others are few, including the millions of produce companies, 999597% of the amount. This shows black people who are in first place. The time of the poor has not come. When's he coming?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for bringing up an issue of an ideal disability. I referred to the development of the biographies of young people earlier, and it's also the group we need to focus on. However, very large steps have been taken during this terms. Just like what? A senator feels that it is important to bring up the matter on a very regular basis, since it seems to be forgotten, that during this terms, the steps have been taken for this group. I can talk about subsidies that had long been fought for, even decades, and when changing the rules about dental costs, for example, one of the huge conflicts of disability. I can name a bill as the highest. A year ago, a social minister was approved as a cutoff from the crown in the disability pensioner. I can talk about a three-stage tax system that is most useful to the most efficient groups, especially in biofuels. I can talk about an increase in injection into a social housing system through the overall housing system, which is extremely important to the disability - welfare providers. The next fall will provide a core review of the social security system. It is known that much has been worked on in these cases too long, and it has been difficult to create a view of the future for exactly how this process of living should be done. But it is long ago time to make changes in order to simplify the system and for the benefit of the disability donor. There's a bill coming in this fall, and I really hope the General will finish it because it's part of this big movie, and it's important that we get that global re-examination on the system that goes on. A senator has often discussed the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. We can agree on this, but the fact is that if a system revision occurs, a package must be included. It is now necessary to make sure that these groups have been corrected for their suffering. These are the only 2009 corrected groups that have not been naïve, 303/40% are missing. These groups are not available for 303/40%. This has not been received by this group. There is also a chain reaction. It sucks to know that merely reducing a cent to the decrease has no effect on social benefits in certain groups and system chain impairments. That's why the system has to go up and simplify it. But number one, two and three are assuming that these most affected groups have a decent salary, not 220,000 bucks. to survive, but the amount needed to survive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u11	Mr. President. Hv. A senator introduces this very complex interaction in the current social security system between impairment and shallow implementation. As I went over in the previous answer, it was a big step in reducing these declines taken along with the bill adopted at the General Assembly last year, which made us really underlining or decommissioning a penny. But there are more damages. There are also disorders that older citizens once worked with governments, resulting in radical changes in their forwarding system. It is important that we have this complete picture and look to see if we are to look at the basic progress and raise it, or whether we are looking for a change in the affected system of things. This has been one of the most discussed cases in this group. I think it's most important to look at the groups that are at the worst in the system. That's what we do by watching basic progress. We can see this now with the changes in the council regarding social support for older citizens, where we are meeting the group that had not arrived with the 2016 changes in older citizens. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u12	Mr. President. One of the classes that seem to have been compromised in the highest level of action. Governments so far are a cab driver's class. It may first be said that cab drivers do not seem to have been allowed to apply for and obtain partial benefits. Why is that? There seems to be no provision for a cabby who is 70 years of age or older who are about 70 of the approximately 600 people who have a work permit. Cabby drivers are made to deposit their job permit to gain unemployment benefits. Is that true of others? That's what the truck driver means? Does this apply to the grizzly men who put their boats down because they are prepared to hunt? This applies to those who practice permit a small number of work on their social security, such as travel, etc.? Do these parties have to return permission for improvement? I'm asking the highest. Minister if he believes that the measures taken to cab drivers will be met by an equal regime and a 75th par. The Constitution of professional freedom. I myself believe, though I'm not legal, that this can make a lot of ambiguity. But perhaps the biggest question is, Why can't cab drivers apply for partial improvements? It's not easy to keep track of their entrance. She's 80 percent smaller now, but she was at the same time last year. What's the top order? A minister does this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u13	A respectable president. You're right next door. Of course, a senator that the situation in society has not missed cab drivers. The fact that there are no foreign tourists has had a significant impact on their environment and social status, especially in April during the meeting season, has also resulted in reduced and reduced traditional activities. Hence, at the outset, it was used to give authority to turn in a license so that people could apply for unemployment benefits. Like what? A senator knows very special rules and laws that apply to driving a taxi in Iceland, especially driving a car and driving a cab, and a number of conditions that are placed on this operation far above any other job or branch. Since a senator listed, there is no need to keep it out. It had to be excluded from the law, and today it is so that if you don't bring in your license and can't do it temporarily without losing your license, they can't apply for unemployment. The situation in this conditioned world of the cab driver is that he must work every day except 35. On the other hand, if we had changed legal requirements and had approved a bill prior to the council, cab drivers would likely have been in partial reforms and could have applied for partial improvements because they were not the conditions around the profession. It is embalmed by a code of laws that may have been originally made to protect them but to some extent now. The situation that exists is evil, that people cannot do their jobs in proportion. [[The president calls.]] I agree with what. A senator in it, but the idea was that some could bring in a permit and others would do the job. I hope there will be more activities for more people when society starts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u14	Mr. President. I thank you for the answers received. I want to say two more things. It has recently been published, but it has not been published, from the 20 - foot [2 m] rule for a cab driver. Many cab drivers run cars that are eight people's cars, which they've turned into four cars, but even they don't get an extra 2 meters rule. The question is, Why? You're right. You're right. Secretary says, um... One third of their wages comes from foreign tourists who are not expected to be here for the next month, and another question is, Why is this situation being made up of 19 new licenses for driving a car? [[The president calls.]] Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u15	A respectable president. I wanted to finish saying that today's program is just a short bill because in this very large legal environment around a cab driver, it was for some reason that those with two years' leave or less could not return it. The idea is to meet them in order for everyone to sit at the same level as that. For your last request, why? Hence, a senator, on leave, has simply been continued. On the other hand, I have no faith that if nothing is being done, men will start activity. It must be obvious. Hv. A senator spoke of the Constitution, of employment freedom, and of law in the country, and it is simply being followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u16	Mr. President. Last night at Silfr, State Radio, it was the highest. Department of Social Affairs asked about the unemployment benefits for students during the summer that he made with other members of the council last week to become a reality. By permission of the president, the highest power was given. The minister of the following comments is included in the program: ▪ I'm not the motivation that neither students nor others on unemployment will receive money from a government fund for not doing anything. Mr. President. For doing nothing! That word is the highest. A minister reflects the attitude displayed by more government officials, that those who look for in the public insurance system when they swear that, like now, when 60,000 people have registered themselves on unemployment records, are people who get compensation for not doing anything, such as that people have the option of going or not going to a unemployment record, such as that they have the option to have or don't have a job. Tells you the highest. Minister to the 60,000 people who are now on unemployment record in Iceland because of Covid are choosing to be on unemployment record? Does a minister think that the students who now finish spring and get no job would prefer unemployment? Does a minister realize that the 3,000 jobs the government boasts of creating for students in the summer do not guarantee 17,000 university students work or 13,000 high school students enough for summer?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u17	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator and president of the welfare committee for this inquiry. It's easy to answer. No, of course, people who are on unemployment are not that way because they do not want to work. It really makes eye contact, and the answer is very simple. What I'm saying, however, is that we started with a plan that aims to create jobs for students because we want them to function. We want to be able to create jobs for as many people as possible. We took measures set out in the left government, which was aimed at creating summer work with the support of the government. At one time 900 jobs were created. What we started after conversation with our rural communities was that our rural communities were initially ready to create 1,000 jobs. Thus, some 3,000,3,400 jobs were included, at the same time, three or four times the work being done in 2009 and 2010. What a joy it was to share in these activities, and what I can say here is that my rural society was returned on Friday and then had 2,900 jobs. Since then, it has been added for the weekend, and this morning 3,076 jobs were done, just from the locals. This will come from public institutions. What I'm saying is that I think so much better that money is spent to create jobs for these young people, for students and others. That's what we're going to do. I also think it would be more wise to raise the budget for these summer jobs because they can be created, rather than put on unemployment benefits. Unemployment is an emergency, and we're supposed to create jobs for students, as many as possible. That's what the government's going to do. I hope the first jobs go to an ad this week. Then, when we receive from the public institutions, there may be more jobs there. I hope we succeed in creating enough work for all the students in the country, summer resources and other things, and then we'll take it back, my dear senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yes, 3,076 jobs on the farm are in the pipes. Students are now finishing their semester and planned to have their work started. Many students support themselves and their families as a result of their studies and have now lost their job in March. They have to provide for their families and are not on student loans because their student loan system is so poor in Iceland that there are twice as many students today as ten years ago. It is not always possible to refer to what was done ten, eleven years ago, in 2009. Today's situation is much worse than it was then. It's a much deeper crisis than then. There are a lot more who are out of work today than they are. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: If the government thinks it's possible before the end of the week to provide all these students, thirty-some thousand, professional, why doesn't the government provide the 60,000 people who are now on unemployment and are not students? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why are we not creating jobs for these people too? Where are they?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u19	A respectable president. Just because it's deeper now, we started right away with the goal of three and four times the number of jobs that were in the economic breakdown. We didn't know if our rural society would react with more jobs. They had suggested to the management of employment insurance funds that they could create 1,000 jobs. They were then making three times as many jobs, and this is a reason for joy. We should not give up on the task of creating jobs, and we do not increase the number of unemployment records. We should not give up on the task of creating these jobs. However, if I fail to create enough work, I will be the first to make sure that the net catches these individuals. But we're supposed to create jobs. We should not give up on it before we leave, as I think it would be. A senator is doing it. We already have 3,000 jobs from our rural communities. It's from the official institutions this week. We are to encourage young people to be active in cooperation with the State and rural society, if necessary, and if necessary create more jobs and do not give up on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u20	Mr. President. The wide lines are covered. The United Nations and the nation will see little of the vision of the government in these times. It may be said that all aspects of the mass and scope of action, the overall vision of the government, are rather vaguely planned to end specific measures. If there is another wave, what purpose do we have? Will the land be locked up even harder than it is now? The actions of the government are in a bad turn. These include the loans that no firm has yet got what I know, and these are weeks since it was decided to attack on that resource. Other measures have been announced but have not become law, and bills have not yet seen light of the day, such as about the reporting process, but companies are already acting in harmony with it. Support loans and closing scholarships are still at the council, and the part-change process is said to be a complete offense. The media shows that the Ministers are losing a lot of important issues. One is having a debate with a senator on whether to increase the number of public jobs at the same time as everyone at the highest level. Ministers in the council hall were elected against the proposal to expand the school's summer work program so that it reached the general labour market as well. V.E.G. A minister of education and culture speaks of extended borders on the quandary with other ministers who see the importance of opening up again the lifeblood of tourism as the safest way. What's the bearing, chief? Prime Minister? They talk about creating jobs. Yet, each member of the government as a single tool, such as allowing a student's resources to reach the private market. [[The president calls.]] They also offer proposals to reduce substantial insurance fees for those who come from unemployment. What's the policy? Wants the highest. Governments create jobs or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson's very much for his inquiry. What's the policy? asks why. Senator. I would have thought it was morning light because it was happening at the beginning of this epidemic, when it struck, that health issues would be above all our decisions. That's why Iceland today draws attention to many parts of the world for the way we have taken control of epidemics, something that has been very different among the nations, where all of us are in the same position. We are all in the same position to deal with an unknown enemy. I know that some have criticized me for talking about this virus as an enemy, but I believe that those who have been infected by it will experience it exactly as an enemy. We have demonstrated that with our policy in these matters, which I have considered here to be a great deal of agreement in this hall, we agree to obey the advice of scientists, put health priorities first, and then deal with the consequences of the epidemic. Because there is great uncertainty, we cannot predict whether the epidemic will flare up again. We know that this is not likely to be possible and that it is possible for us to choose a different course than that of being ready and to make sure that our health system is prepared to deal with it if that happens. Then there are our economic actions. I think that we too agree on the policy that most important is to maintain a job level. Hv. According to one senator, the part - improvement pathway is seriously maligned by someone. That's not my opinion. The contribution process has proved to be an enormously important tool for maintaining a job level. We could have undergone such an operation if we had decided to cut down insurance because we paid. Our unemployment insurance insurance with the insurance bill. [[The president calls.]] However, there is no doubt that we can better develop the more clear conditions for the use of the partial improvement process, and that is true.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u22	Mr. President. I'm not going to argue with the highest. Prime Minister on the importance of health care, which is not exactly what I was asking. I was asking the highest one. A minister on the economic vision, and I found it to be the highest. The prime minister gives virtually easy answers, asking whether the main goal was not to try to reduce unemployment. Yes, it did. But all the suggestions in that state are made, suggestions that are still bold, but the government has proposed. It's, for example. It is bold to suggest that those hired by unemployment are paid only 25 percent of the insurance. That is a bold decision. If these people are at home on unemployment benefits, high amounts of money are not being paid. [[The president calls.]] It was also a bold suggestion that came from the opposition that students who have won can enjoy unemployment. It's all turned out to be cool. Is it the only thing that is absolutely safe in the policy of this government, to turn down all practical suggestions from the government? Is that the only thing we can be sure of?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u23	The President must only remind us of the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u24	Mr. President. With that. A senator saw the reason to repeat my comments. I'm going to repeat his question, for he specifically asked about health - care policies to form in case one of the epidemic's events. I thought there was no unwise approach. A senator, for our actions in economic matters must be determined by the medical standards involved. I'm sorry that this is an easy task because the big issue of economic development is how we're going to follow the health standards and deal with the epidemic. I would've thought we were moving. A senator and my movement would agree on the priority. When it comes to maintaining a job level, I simply haven't agreed with the emphasis on reducing the tax on a company. With a reduction in insurance fee, I have considered it normal to use that important tax base to ensure the survival of the pay people in the country. That's what we do with the part-change process. We do so in a number of other measures. I think that's exactly how important it is for us to maintain the strong social network we have, and we need to stay on to the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u25	A respectable president. There are reports from Britain that people are encouraged to cycle because public transportation will remain low in the next few years if not for the years of Covid. They are encouraged to avoid making use of public transportation only in a limited way. I am now the last to bear a volleyball of the measures that have been adopted in Britain, but this recommendation points to how things are being handled here in the United Kingdom, whether there will be any change in transport practices for the next few days. In view of the financial breakdown we see here. I'd like to ask the highest. A secretary of transportation whether there is something in his examination and how the newly signed transport problem is facing him. It stipulates 120 billion projects, as I recall, that most of them come from a government fund, although all the rural areas in the capital area committed themselves to participate in some of the same activities. If news and transportation are to be determined, the largest powder seems to go to what is called a city line in the capital area, which is being carried out at one hundred and fifty billion. I would like to ask the minister if he thinks it is a reason to reexamine them for profit, since it is of course clear that this action alone is not profitable. More activities would be urgent as indiscriminate streets in Reykjavík, which almost seem to be in a transport program, but would be more urgent in view of the limited amount of money that is expected to be less than the amount of transport policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking up this vital task, the transport contract. We had a bill for 1st. This is the last week, and the contract is about to be taken care of, which is the main host of the road. It is extremely important to continue this assignment, especially in the light of what we discussed earlier in this prepared period of inquiry, i.e. to create more jobs. It's an investment project on the big scale, up to 120 billion. What I love most about this project, I know we are. A senator does not share the exact view that here has managed to bring together the six rural communities in the capital area in a common vision of how we solve the future traffic problems. We do this by building both the footways and public transportation. I know that in these times, there have been many limitations in dealing with people, some countries have gone so far as to forbid public transportation, such as pa·rou·siʹa. A senator pointed to Britain, which is, of course, a temporary operation. We're on our way to this huge project. That's a review of all tasks. It has been in the priming process. The road structure has been given the job to him, which has been called the City Lineroom, i.e. the environment at Reykjavíkurburg has arrived at the Vega development site, where staff have been working on the project. I think we're on the right track and we don't need to change our course on the basis of what we've got here. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to say a few words about Wheels at work, but I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u27	It'll have to come back later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u28	A respectable president. I don't think that was necessary of the highest. A minister should assume that we do not agree on all these matters. I'll have to, for example. to commend the highest. A secretary of transportation for the recently adopted policy of stressing the expansion of transport from Reykjavík, including the U.S.A. by completing the Rhine Way, by widening the blood vessels into the Southland. This is an enormously important process of transportation, and it is truly profitable. I have to say, even though I wasn't 1st. Otherwise, I would have been deeply concerned that there is little to be done on real transport in Reykjavík, including the U.S.A. ... withdiscriminal roadsideways on Round Road/Mightway and Grensás Road. These are useful transport improvements that reduce accidents by 92%, as shown by research, and I would like to see the Minister put more on this. Then, in the end, I would like to ask him: " Who is it that is in charge of the carrying out of this transport covenant? [[The president calls.]] I see that the mayor of Reykjavík signed an agreement on design and opening of some transport track. Don't you think the secretary of transportation has his finger on the pulse here?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u29	A respectable president. Of course, because this is a good assignment, we agree more and less on the whole project. It promotes a wide range of transport methods. In Britain, for example, a senator spoke of riding a bicycle because public transportation was not available as it would have been needed. It's been doing it here now that ISI initiative for the 18th time, and there's been a huge increase every year. I think it's important. As part of this transport contract is just about to start projects, it is important that we be able to complete it and set up assignments immediately during the summer and autumn, so to speak, to carry out more paces and more bicycles because such projects are called for work to be done. I agree with you, too. A senator that it is important to look for safety and profit, and it is part of this process now to analyze it better. Of course, the covenant was such a large picture and staging the projects in their proper chronological order so that the most profitable projects will lead to the greatest traffic security and the best flow of transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u30	So on the 12th through 15th session, the meetings were distributed after April 1 and so on, with the 13th session, that it has not been in five days since its distribution. Hence, there is a need for consent to take the matter on. The president considers these variants to be approved without a vote if no one objects to them. No one moves objections and variations are approved. In this meeting, we can discuss matters later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u31	At the 2nd and 3rd sessions, they are overdosed from the distribution of changes in them. So we need to seek approval from making the adjustments. The variants will be viewed without vote if they do not speak out. Nobody says anything, and it's approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u32	V.E.G. President. I'm going to explain to you that there's an adjustment in the motion. 1368. That's 724. These are technical changes, not material, that occur between the 2nd and the 3rd. and correctional entry. On the one hand, there's a correction of 200 billion. K. a donation to the Research Fund, which was falsely registered in the Department of Employment and Development, and is corrected, should attend the Ministry of Education and Culture at the same seminar. However, there is a economic exchange in which there is a management progress, not a business venture that involves paying from a government fund, in fact, a third body, not a government fund directly, we're not buying services. This is a contribution to community organizations that support vulnerable groups of society with social support, food distribution, and so forth. So it should not be in our hearts why. Councilmen agree to the two proposed modifications between the 2nd and 3rd. ... abouta fund-a-weapon bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u33	A respectable president. This morning a legal hearing came to our home on a budget board and was discussed with various issues related to public finance and the current situation. I just wanted to talk to you for a second. Chairman of the budget board on the situations we are dealing with related to the financial Council we have and comparable advice in our neighboring countries, and different roles they have. It was noted that the opinions of a financial body were relatively low, and perhaps there was a lack of sharpening in the law that its role might be more important. It was an example of a disease - prevention doctor who is giving a measure of health in a particular crisis situation, whether it would be normal for something such as financial counsel, someone similar to a donor, to support and trust for the council in such a condition, and even in general view. In Sweden a report is published twice a year regardless of the situation, it is being published in Sweden these days, just because it is a regular postponement of those opinions. I'm asking if we don't have to go put on a little bit of that stuff in Iceland, too. Now we're entering the third package in a response to the situation, and it would be very helpful to have an independent, independent individual, as a financial body, on that road.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir This is Gunnarsson's Björn for recording. This does not have anything to do with any of the adjustments I was explaining in a talk, but let it lie in part because this is a very good question. It is true that we have received financial advice at our meeting, and this has become clear, in conversation between members of the Parliament in the discussion of the budget and the presented issues that many feel are lacking regardless of objective assessments of the measures we are taking to cover. And good success, because the preparation of public financial law now lasted a long time, the role of a financial body was written into that law, in 13 C.E. ... thatmostly the council would receive any objective assessment. This has proved to be very effective. In the 10th. This should be considered objective independent of the evaluation, and it is independent of its jobs. It is also important in this regard. I think that this meeting we have this morning with a financial council is actually the beginning of a review of the law at the time. I think it's time for us to analyze the whole law, but especially when it comes to these unusual circumstances. We can be sure that we will go through a crisis again and based on a policy and a planned failure. Then we could have a better discussion of such measures that we are dealing with at the council every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u35	A respectable president. Just to be clear, so you come to the adjustment, she just looks normal. There's going to be a place to go, nothing to do, so it's done. The answer, however, is more about the role of a legal committee in the release of this case, and it is directed to the chairman of the budget board rather than directly about his transport of this change. The Act on Public Economics states that the Council should give its review of the proposal for a valid basis for review of current policies. Since then, it has been announced recently that a new financial policy will be carried out without our having seen whether it is a valid cause. I don't mean to question whether the occasion is valid, but it's always good to see the evidence in what kind of swamp we are, the basis for which aspects of financial policy and financial strategy have smiled and in what way. This is very necessary for us and for the conference at the General Assembly when we are accepting proposals from the government, which is now without goals and policies in relation to the current financial agenda. At the same time, there is nothing that we have seen supporting the priorities and the goals and policy proposed in a financial program. When I have asked about it, it has only been said about trying to protect the situation to some extent, but there are no financial goals that have been cited. We now have a very loose position on official financial laws that report free of policy, but we have not yet received any support for what it is or what our goals are.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's cheek is so good, and later an answer may be more than 10. that deal with what happens when such situations arise and preconceived policies and estimates fail, and there is a lack of natural policy. This is also linked to the role of a financial body, the extent to which it should be, and the extent to which other institutions are involved. I'm calling Haust, Secret Bank, the Ministry of finance with their experts, etc. This varies somewhat from country to nation. We look at the scene and counsel provided by international institutions, OECD, the World Bank and other sources, and it differs from one country to another. The role of a financial body, in its objective opinion, is now very closely linked to the baseline values behind policy and plan, including on sustainability and caution. We need to look into all of this in context, all the factors. A senator did a fine job, and I think we should write it more clearly into the law. I also believe that, from experience with financial agencies, the role should be more extensive and should be maintained in the circumstances we are dealing with here. It would be very useful to the council, that's my opinion. I think we should learn from this and go to that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u37	Mr. President. I was just going to give a brief talk in view of the very fact that the changes in the government's proposals came in votes just before a weekend, under cover of darkness. We voted for the Change in the Government Status at 0800 p.m. 10:30 p.m. on Thursday night, and maybe not quite sure everyone figured out what went on there. I'd like a day's light to run fast over what happened here on Thursday when it came to putting these changes from the government side because it really matters what men do in this room. What happened in this room was that the government groups agreed to all the proposals of the administrations, all of them. Every proposal from the left, the Independence Party, and the forwarding party all agreed to the five opposing sides. The government groups shared in the humble suggestions that would have greatly improved the funds, but none of them had any successes. There was a famous proposal to allow students to obtain unemployment. It's been cut off. There was a suggestion to raise unemployment rates by 10%. It's been cut off. There was a suggestion to support the small companies entitled to support the loans, but not the right to the close-up grants. There was a proposal to extend a small amount of business into the restaurant sector, in the tourism industry, etc., to strengthen in a comparable way, and so-called shut-down companies benefit. There was a proposal to temporarily freeze the loan of tourism companies. It's been cut off. There was a suggestion to increase the support to the media at the moment, the highest. President, about 350 million. K. It was taken by the government. There was a suggestion to increase the stress payment for future health and social services so that it would also include staff of all nurses, not just some, as well as law enforcement personnel. It's been cut off. There was a proposal to secure a single-change payment of a hundred thousand dollars. to scarring and older citizens. It's been cut off. A little support for the U.S.A., up to 100 million. K., who are wrestling with their longest waiting list in history. Likewise, they are dealing with unprecedented losses in the light of 100 million situations. It's been cut off. There were also suggestions for raising funds for development, for the film fund, in the tourist labour fund, the National Social Plans Program, to young pioneers. There was also a suggestion to cut insurance. Some independents believe that they are the only advocates of an enterprise, that's not at all. It may be nice for people to know that those members of the Independence Party who boast about being always advocates of paying taxes on a company dropped all of the government's proposals to reduce insurance fees. The actions speak for themselves, Mr. President, and I think it is important that this chair be heard in what way the government groups use their authority here and give very little for their own declarations, that we all must stick together and not matter where good comes from. The Thursday night, it was very clear that it seems that everything is important from where suggestions come from, Mr. President. I feel sad, in view of the circumstances here, that none of them have been accepted. I'm not expecting all these suggestions to take a course. But sooner or later, Mr. President. How is it, since these classes introduced new tactics at the beginning of their power time, to promote the council, etc., that none of our proposals at this assembly were leading a course? I also remind you that in the budget one, in the first act package, no proposal of the government was approved. Finally, in view of the fact that the third pack of action is coming this weekend, I want to encourage these finest members of the left green, forward, and independent party to think only their own course when it comes to the motion of the government resistance in this council hall. I know we can get a few things through the committees, but sooner or later you may not be able to join in some of our proposals and support them. Behind closed doors, you tell a lot of us that you support many of these suggestions. Let's do it, my good coal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u38	Mr. President. Now we're in the 3rd. The budget, the second package of the government. I'd like to take my heart to it. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson here said about the adjustment of the memory proposal, he traced it well how practical the suggestions are. It is very sad that they were not approved, really, by government categories. At the same time that they call for our cooperation and work on this proposal, it is evident that it does not matter where the suggestions come from. That's sad. I'm hoping the government groups will only change policy when it comes to taking further action that has been introduced and that people will seriously listen to the suggestions the government has made. I thank you for a very nice meeting at the budget board this morning with financial advice. I particularly thank the chairman of the Committee for our appointment. It was very important and much beneficial, and, of course, this counsel should be given to us under these circumstances. However, the law is now quite rigid in this counsel and the way it handles such situations. However, I would like to guess and express that it is important to recognize that a very important project is ahead of reinvestmenting public finances into the course of the law and thinking about whether to change the law, i.e. can be consulted with opinions and suggestions in such situations. I thought it was very important to get this out, to distinguish between opinions, and then counseling, that's something we really should consider. It was found at the conference that the government law on government finance has proved its value in this situation, and it is a pleasure to hear and that almost all of the laws of this law have been put to the test. Then, only the time frame we give to deal with these events was discussed, i.e. that it does not reflect the exact need for the law at this magnitude, in terms of getting us out of it. It is clear that the law puts very strict conditions in this regard, and it is clear that we need to look into changing them. Otherwise, all I would like to say is that the Central Party has made adjustments to the funds offered and in cooperation with the government opposition. Unfortunately, the proposals have been dropped, and I really hope that there will be a change in this cooperation that the government groups call for in what lies ahead, in the important and difficult situation that we all face.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u39	A respectable president. We're here for the 3rd. ... aboutthechartpack. Unfortunately, it has to be said, as it is, that there is an especially older citizen and invalid person who, unfortunately, does not get more than that one amount of money, about 20,000 bucks. June 1, which they would no doubt have needed even in July, August, and September. I hope it's in the next pack. It seems that there are enough money for a company and a company that seems to be doing well somehow can get a lot of money, too. But as I say, there's another package coming, and I really hope that the government sees its own worth in putting money in there for those most in need, i.e. for older citizens, poor people, joblesss and children's families. Children also need to be brought back to those who need it, but they do not begin to interfere too soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u40	A respectable president. We were getting information earlier this afternoon, a relatively short time ago, on the scope of applications in the University of New World Translation, which is 992 applications for 4,0 months or 1,397 students. This adjustment proposal that I propose here at 3.3 billion [See Senator's correction in a talk. 16:38.] is really to finance those applications. If we examine such measures in terms of the government and the lawsuits and the members of the board, that sounds like the action that has been given to do. If we don't, we'll grab on later. We in Pirates, however, have emphasized innovation, since that is where we are taking whatever opportunities exist. The message we've received from various funds and people who know about this is that there are many opportunities. This was shown to be about the application rates and applications that received support, e.g. from a Technical Development Fund, that many of the applyings that had the highest grade were not given distribution. There's been some resentment, since the last round of business. But better, if it's enough. The rationale for rejecting the changes suggested by the lesser part, e.g. that students can go on unemployment benefits, is a problem because if the government's actions are sufficient to meet the smaller costs for students, etc., it should not cost anything to have at least the security network that would allow students to apply for unemployment insurance. It wouldn't cost you anything if your actions were successful. If they have confidence in their efforts, they should also be able to say: Fine, no problem that students can also apply for unemployment insurance - because they will not apply for it, there will be plenty of jobs. Instead, the discussion seems to be in the way of saying: We should let it go now, but if the problem arises - and that has come up, of course, since some have lost their jobs since March and the students in part - time work could not take much advantage of the part - good and so - if the circumstances arise, we will take action and fix it afterwards. But the damage is done, and it is often harder to intervene and fix things afterwards than to provide them and take precautions before the damage is done. So it is disappointing that the greater part has refused suggestions to allow students to apply on unemployment insurance, while we are suggesting to raise money in innovation, and especially in this area, in the Western World Fund of Students, and it is also rejected. Previous adjustments have been rejected, as with young pioneers. Now we have information about applications in the New World Translation Fund of students and provide adjustments in order to finance those applications. There are clearly given jobs underneath and becomes interesting to see how a vote falls, I think I may be able to guess exactly how it goes, but let the audience and audience guess themselves. This morning a financial committee visited. It had been requested that financial counsel be written and planned sooner in this process, but it was only after 2. Um.....for 3. A charge of finance came and visited us on the budget board. There were also quite a number of representatives from a financial and business committee at that meeting. If there were to be a few words of what was said at that meeting, at least I would understand it as a lack of transparency. There was a lack of context, lack of explanations on how governments operate in the face of the problems we face. The contradiction has always been that there's so much uncertainty that we can't say anything about it. We're actually throwing money into the unknown, it's a hole to appear in front of us, and we're just shoveling into it. There is a certain lack of efficiency. There's no assessment of that, just a guess. That is exactly what comes out of the scaffold, followed by prompt action, to say that the avenues of abuse have been taken in some way. This is an example of lack of efficiency, an example of problems in identifying the problem in some way before facing it. The financial adviser has already mentioned that it is not part of a baseline law on public finance to evaluate the efficiency and the practicality of budgeting, financial planning, and financial policies. That's a little interesting. It imposes a measure of financial limitations and, in fact, narrower than the same advice in neighboring countries. I mentioned in the answers to the Sweden financial Council, which publishes a report every six months on the economic issues and the like. Also, financial advisers, or financial agencies in Sweden, give a reputation for elections. We're not quite there yet, but I think we've evolved a little bit that way for the past few years. For example, before the 2016 election, Pirantar was donated, for example. ... witha shadowylaw. It was the first time that a political body issued an entire budget for elections to show off the cards. They didn't draw much attention, perhaps because people just didn't expect it, they were unexpected in some way, and people didn't know how to take it. Piratars also suggested that groups would represent elections with which of the other categories they would wish to work in a sort of vote. It went as it went. I still think there's definitely something that could be done better and do more for the next election, etc. You see, it is so interesting to examine Icelandic politics in connection with the greater part of politics, as they are practiced here. They are a bit because the majority of them decide to control everything, including whether any proposal for financing in the student's New World Fund is simply rejected or not, regardless of the conviction of the individual senator. It is not possible, then, that the conviction of members of Congress is so highly bound in lines that it is a matter of chance that they always agree or disagree with the modification of my things, quite significant. In the coming years, however, uncertainty and uncertainty may decrease, but uncertainty has not been established in the context of government action. We get a message that the next package is about business and stuff like that. But what is its connection with the previous package? What part was being bridged, and what part is now missing? There are information we should have received when we started this journey, that we are applying a particular program that is predictable in some way. It is a law on public financial matters, that makes the government's actions more predictable, that governments tell much more clearly what they will do and why. This has been critical of financial matters in recent years. The meeting also showed that the key challenges for the future will be the improvement in the economy when the situation we are about to be completed, that is, the recovery of seas, etc., and how we came back from the economy, especially in terms of sustainability. There will be the main points in how we will contribute to the sustainability of public finance, how we deal with the economic system, how we deal with society after this crisis. Special attention was given to one factor regarding the rules of debt. Such rules could potentially be harmful for economic recovery measures. As has often been said before, these rules are human works, and they are far more rigid, far more rigid, than in those countries that have similar laws on public finances as we do. It is easy to make the comparison and has previously been shown about straitjackets, etc., which are not directly related but have similar lengths. We need to consider the financial principles involved, e.g. In addition, debt and reimbursement may counteract the goals of government law. That's what I'm calling in the programs that come from the government in the near future, including... in a financial policy yet to be established. It is natural only the current government to set financial policies for the rest of the terms of the election, and all of us know that the next government must set up a new financial policy, but it is still necessary for the present government to show the period set out in the government laws on public finance and how we will go through the circumstances we are in under the same term. We should just leave it that way. It will not be easy to recover from this condition, and although the rules are as clear as they are, we have received a message that they are potentially harmful. Let us please take this into consideration, for our main goal is to make life better for the people outside, not for us inside, and with that in mind, we must be able to do more and more than we have done so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u41	A respectable president. Briefly included: The reason why I come up here is because all the government groups monotonously passed the proposals of the government opposition, which were many, but they all carried with them trying to deal with the situation, including. to contribute to the diversity of jobs. Also, there were some methods of transportation that I do a little better after. What impresses me is that in the meantime, since the government groups slaughtered all these proposals on Thursday evenings, there have been many statements on the part of a government minister who truly indicates that there is not necessarily one mentality in all their actions and clearly some time that will go on the basis of the government's rule groups to achieve solidarity. We saw it in unsubstantiated inquiries and heard that it is clearly not a unit or compatible one, e.g. the path to the structure of transport workers. Although a very clear line has been agreed on, the independent group, the classic it is natural to be against a city line. The head of the State Department came up here and asked the secretary of transportation in this regard. This concerns me in the way of a much larger and more infrastructure development, investments, immediately, speed up plans, do what needs to be done as soon as possible, hope that these projects will be carried out, the government will be more time to achieve some agreement on what has to be done and not even satisfied about it. The days that have passed since Thursday, and they are not many, provide a definite indication that it is a restriction within the government to keep the people good. The emphasis is natural. We'll see to it that it's about Illelands. I would have liked to have, e.g. for the secretary of transportation or for the secretary of travel, a vision of that. That is what we naturally lack in this government, in vision, in guide, in guidance. We got it from the health trinket. We're taking over the virus. We're mastering the health show, but the economy and the guidance, leadership, it's gonna be a lot more than the response of the government. For example, I would have liked to see direction, guidance on how we see transportation and from our country to a shorter and longer time. What does the secretary of finance want? I thought he was on a different level than other members of the board. There must be clear guidance here, both for the Icelanda staff but also for the nation, on how we are going to ensure that we can continue to build up or restart our travel services in their own time. Uncertainty is not the good, which has marked the days since the Thursday evening since the 2nd - year vote. I was there. There is something else that makes me think about what was said this weekend, and that was the highest word. Department of Social Affairs at the Silfr National Radio. There he drew his view of students and was very upset with the way it was presented. He did not say that he was motivated by neither students nor others on unemployment rates received money from a government fund for not doing anything. He said that he preferred to get all these people into action and thus to get the funding to build up. That's what a minister said on Sunday. We're now dealing with the three-year-olds. It is still possible to change this and to bring the people into effect, but the government groups slaughtered all our proposals in the government stand for the very thing, to get the people, whether they are students or others, to work. We in the revere made a very simple suggestion for this, asking that contributions to the student summer work be 3.2 billion dollars. and the range of values would be extended so that it would also reach the general market, thus producing more and more work. This was rejected by a social minister and, in fact, a financial minister from the Independence Party, who also speaks in the second strip about the importance of the work in a private market, in the private sector, but he massacres in the other general proposals to try to expand the range of these proposals. It helps me very well to realize that there is no attempt to prevent what is complained and could have been prevented by accepting some of the suggestions offered by the government to put people into work and to work. If this is not possible, it must be taken into account by the temporary condition in which we are in and accept. suggested that students be able to apply for unemployment if they did a certain percentage at the labour market for a certain period. We know that nearly 70% of students work with students and are nowhere so high in Europe. Also, students are being associated with such ones as they have earned no one just when they are in a job market while they are studying. What kind of government thing is this? The good thing about all these interviews in the past three days is that they draw out to me the inadequacies and the ridiculous arrangements of the government when it comes to building up here. It is not that there is a lack of suggestions on these matters, and it has been shown that the proposals of the government have certainly not been an offer, of course not. People are being affected by what is being burned out here, destroying uncertainty, getting people into jobs, giving people the opportunity, the freedom of choice in these other difficult situations. That's why it's my insistence on the government parties that they use this opportunity. We're in the 3rd. budgets. Like students, try to get something done about meeting the groups we have been discussing. I'm excited to see what's going to be presented tomorrow from the highest level. Education minister and social minister on suggestions relating to students. They must start listening to what students have been saying in this regard. They've got 24 hours left. V.E.G. To some extent, the secretary of transportation is a pity because he has a travel minister on his back, a few indeed, from the government party who wanted to sit in his chair. As a result, it is random in my opinion to give suggestions on the construction of transport workers. We need to do more in the structure of our infrastructure. There is much more to be done. That's why I would have chosen to have been talking about something more than the so-called PPP Prime Minister of Transport here last week, something to get us started right away, in designing, drawing etc. for transportation. Then our natural suggestions were directed first and last to innovation, research and knowledge, the fields of knowledge. It was a shame to see again and again that our proposals in the government stand did not have a sound base, e.g. In terms of the insurance bill, which is one of the issues made by several categories of the management team to protect the work, try to secure it, and enter an incentive for an enterprise to employ. People from unemployment record. But they weren't listening to it. Everything was pushed aside. The most painful thing to me was that the governments and the government groups did not take more pride in our proposal to promote further innovation, research, and development. I have pointed out here in the past that if there is something that all the nations of the world are doing now in this epidemic, it is getting ready to do even more vicious competition for people, humanized, intelligent, and knowledge. Then we must have done our homework. They need funds, scholarships, support systems so that we can resist the competition. It is evident that 75% of those who represent innovation and sceptres claim that the U.S. dollar is an obstacle, a premise. While living under the crown, we simply need to put more money in material resources, in scholarships, in the business, within Ranni's, in technology funds, or elsewhere. We must recognize that the suggestions must also indicate that we recognize the situation today. While we're living in the Icelandic crown, we don't have the advantage. Then there will be suggestions that touch the fund to contain such a reality. It hurt me to see that this was not being taken into consideration. Besides that, a remuneration rate for research, evolution, and innovation could be even higher, but that's another story. It was all said and we'll see what puts it now, what suggestions the government will make this week. A good sign has already been made available the promise of a change in unemployment, including the following: That the state fund pays off the notice. It's been announced, but we haven't seen what that bill will look like and what it's gonna look like. Will that change greatly to make a picture of how Illeland's affairs unfold? I have to say right now, Mr. President, that I thought this was incoherent. I thought it was ridiculous on Thursday night when we studied things and subjects and our reasonings, on the same night that all the government groups agreed on our proposals. After the weekend's interviews with the Minister of the Government, it is clear that a much clearer course is needed. They need much clearer guidance, much clearer direction when it comes to economic matters. I urge the government: Take your public defense team as it comes to guidance, when it comes to explaining, when it comes to giving a reply to the nation of those times of the crown virus. We who are in the position of control need to be alert. We need to handle this. What must not be diseased is a democratic means, so we will continue to care for both the council hall and its outside.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u42	A respectable president. Just a minute. When I was measuring for the adjustment proposal earlier, I turned over. This is 3,300 months of work on the basis of contributions, not 3.3 billion. So it is 1 billion in budgets 3,300 months of donations in the New World Translation Fund of students.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u43	Mr. President. As noted, in the United States, we offered proposals for an increase in unemployment to five teams. It was about an increase in basic non-employment insurance, increases in income - related unemployment benefits, percentages would be 100% up to the maximum pay insurance and students' rights for unemployment during the summer. All these suggestions were dropped, but the fifth came to a closer visit, and I felt it under 2nd. that both directors and government opposers were interested in considering that proposal further. After encouragement from nightfall. A senator of the left green, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, I decided to call the proposal back to the 3rd. Now she's here for the payment today. The motion turns to the forwarding of what they receive, which is fundamentally unworkable. In the unemployment insurance Act, this amount is 4% of basic non-employment benefits, which are now 289,510k, but the suggestion is that we raise it to 6%. What does that mean in numbers? This means that today those who are working on basics get 11,580 bucks. paid with each child under the age of 18, but with the change, the amount goes to 17,370K. Someone now says that it doesn't matter because there are so few people in the world who are working on basics, they're working on unemployment, they're on notice, they're doing business. But that's not true. It's a large group of people who are already on basic employment benefits. If only we look at the land where unemployment is the highest, Southnesin, unemployment was nearly 10% in February. It was 14% in March, and now it's headed to 30%. Note that within these percentages, those who are on notice are not included, so it is obvious that this increase with each child who is on unemployment and who has to rely on the very low ones - of course, we must increase them even if it is not the norm for the right time, but it must come. We in the United States are truly happy that this change is under way. We're so happy for every good step. I hope so. Councilmen, the council members do not automatically push the spark when it comes to making a motion from a United States Council member. I hope my partner is on the Economic and Business Committee, huh? paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Þór Gunnarsson, who brings the motion with me, will see that he gather his people together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u44	Mr. President. You could say that. paritaprevir Oddný G. The Harðardóttir daughter who spoke before me said all that has to be said in this matter, but I believe it is right and duty to mention it, as well. And there came in a certain senator before, that there was a difference between me and my voice. A senator at 2nd. ... inthecontrovert. I spoke there, including that I was seeing the proposal, as it was then, for the first time, but mentioned that I liked it, as shown by the fact that I'm a member of her now. In hand, a small hand job, in effect, was to try to figure out exactly what was underneath and what it was like. The suggestion in the form it is today is a little different from what it was originally in the text. It's clearer and like a beard. A member of the council introduced it best to those who have been on the longest unemployment benefits and thus to have the lowest progress for some time. That's why this proposal is very good, and I'm especially glad that I have the opportunity to make the suggestion. A senator and will do what I can to make sure that she will be accepted here at a vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u45	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Committee for Foreign Affairs, which is available on deck. 1350. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by the health department and the Department of Professional Affairs and Development. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Regulations on how to treat the European Union and therefore suggests that the proposal will be agreed. Under countless publications, along with those listed here, Logi Trari Guðmundsson, Brunísdótttir Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Rósa Björk Einarsson Brylfóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gönsdótttir K. Gunnarsdóttir, who was absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u46	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Committee for Foreign Affairs, which is available on deck. 1351. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative from the State Department and the Ministry of State and Economic and Economic Affairs. The proposal is to consult the General's authority to confirm some decisions made by the European Commission that are tore up in this Senate document. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Regulations on how to treat the European Union and therefore suggests that the proposal will be agreed. Underneath the literature, except for those listed here, Logi Trausti Guðmundsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brrylfólóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Dörnardóttir, Smári Mccarthy and Þorgerður K. GunnarsdóttirEinarsson who was absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u47	A respectable president. I recommend the National Committee's Committee's Commission's proposal for a resolution of the decision made by the joint EEA Committee on the Change of X.The Annex of the EEA Convention on Article 6. 1349. The matter of public service and consumer protection. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted its representatives from the State Department and the Department of Professional Affairs and Development. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Regulations on how to treat the European Union and therefore suggests that the proposal will be agreed. Under the committee of literature, except for those listed here, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bordi Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Resha Brynjólfsdóttir Brjolf's daughter, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Gunnarsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Þorgerður LogiEinarsson who was absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. Foreign Affairs. The committee has discussed these matters and has received a meeting with Kristín Guðmundsdóttir from the Ministry of Health and Daði Ólafsson, frá the atvinnuvega of - og nýsköpunarráðuneyti. This proposal requires a review of the Commission's sources to confirm the decisions made by the joint EEA Committee on the I. An Annex on the Health of Animals and Plants and II. An appendix for technical regulations, standards, testing and certification. This will include the contract of the Council of Europe and the Council that is involved in changes in medical instruments, etc. The second decision is so technical in regulations and testing, and it is particularly about a medical device for diagnostic purposes in a bottle. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. The Conventional Treatments of the EEA and therefore the Commission proposes that the proposal be adopted. Under the heading, write why. The head of the State Department, Sigríður Á. Andersen, the one that stands, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brrylfótir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir, who Logi undez.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u49	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a change in bill proposal to correct the change in national transport laws to renewable fuels. The committee discussed the matter well, and they made a guest of Jehovah's Witnesses available. The subject of the bill is the implementation of the European Parliament and Council Directive 2015/151 of 9 September 2015 for the change in fuel quality and diesel fuels quality directives and the change in energy use directives. In 1st. Section 3. ; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M., M. 40/2013, the market for fuel in Iceland should ensure that at least 3.5% of its total energy supply for transport across the country is renewable fuels. It should then be ensured that at least 5% of the total energy value for transport per year is renewable fuels. Two. is authorized to count certain renewable fuels derived from organic or non-organic wastes twice the same amount of other renewable fuels to meet the conditions of 1 mg. The bill is suggested to remove 2nd. Section 3. The law of the law and that a minister will be authorized to state by the Regulation on which types of renewable fuels can be counted twice the same amount of other renewable fuels. In the treatment of the problem, it was found that in addition to promoting greater clarity, it is important to deal with the recent development of technology that has led to the introduction of a greater wide range of renewable fuels available to more vehicles. In the reviews and in the case of visitors for the committee and why, the bill was a source of great pleasure. The employment board suggests that the bill will be approved by the change that the bill's headline will be: The bill to correct the changing laws on renewable transport, No. 40/2013 (fuel species, data sources). Under the heading, the one listed here is writing with a bang. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president of the day. Professional Committee, Elíasdóttir Friidífífíofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofoft, Friðriksson, Hölfi the Kristjánsdóttir of Kristækunn, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Ísleifsson of Frurbertir, Unlafi Isunson, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. a representative of the Commission for bringing this committee opinion. Like what? This is a matter, though not too much to be concerned about, about a number of interesting things, and about such factors as transport energy exchanges. It was very interesting to have that discussion on the committee, and there is something that I think we need to discuss much more at the council. In view of modern technology in recent years, it is clear that there is a much greater variety of renewable fuels and rapid technological development with regard to all of this. That is why it is important that we be good at our notes and act quickly as lawgivers when new energy sources arrive. I especially wanted to call attention to the comments of Sam's energy, which are just in the committee's opinion. I guess that's a good thing, and I wanted to ask you why. A senator. Conspirator says, with permission of the president: Thus, the General Assembly and the government are encouraged to look at such possibilities in the coming years of legalization and policy development. In particular, there is the need to ensure that adequate supply of energy is available for rapid and efficient energy exchange, and that the legal environment does not interfere with the necessary infrastructure. Union actually says that within the country there are enough resources to produce energy and energy, whether it is hydrogen, methadone, methadone, ammonia, biodiversity, or anything else, and I wanted to ask you why. paritaprevir The Bishop Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bjorn's daughter whether she agrees with this estimate of Samflu and whether she believes that the Council should consider a better opportunity to produce domestic fuel.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Frisbjörg Elisdóttir for her answer. It also comes from a good source because of what happened. A senator is very interested in renewable energy. You're absolutely right. A senator says, here's a matter that doesn't cover much during the Senate work, but it involves the energy exchange in which we are entering and having to take a clear view and policy. I agree with what. A senator, whose resignation was most enjoyable, since the organization supports the progress of the bill and also raises up opportunities here on the land to produce renewable fuels to replace fossil fuels. What's nice, so I'll tell you what's good. A member of the Parliament is saying that the committee all agreed on the importance of the government taking note of the possibility of producing renewable fuel in the region. That's exactly what it said in the counter, from which it's being mopped. There are plenty of opportunities, and I think now is an opportunity and time to look forward and think in a productive way when it comes to taking advantage of the options here. I know why. A senator is very interested in it and has many good ideas and ideas that I do not doubt will arise in many matters of Congress. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u52	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Committee for Foreign Affairs, which is available on deck. 1352. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a State Department specialist and a financial and economic specialist. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Regulations on how to treat the European Union and therefore suggests that the proposal will be agreed. Under the heading, in addition to what it says, Smári Mccarthy, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Brístís Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Rósa Logi Einarsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gönsóttir K. Gunnarsdóttir, who was absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u53	A respectable president. The student's innovation fund received about 1,000 applications, and we set out here a billion dollars. to finance those applications. That would be about 3,300 months of donations in the fund that would help with the situation regarding the advancement of students and would be an excellent idea instead of a job-free budget if the highest. A minister has questions like that. Of course, both should exist, so I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u54	A respectable president. I come up here to declare my support to this proposal. It meets with what we need to be doing now, giving people, in this case students, an opportunity to carry out assignments that depend on the New World Translation Fund. This is a perfect way for the government classes who do not want to put students on unemployment benefits to meet their demands, so I strongly support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u55	Mr. President. Since the nation's beginning of economic disasters because of the virus epidemic, the central category has emphasized large, general, and simple measures to minimize the economic damage we are facing. However, the government decided to deal with the problems of small doses that will make it more difficult now than before to take cover for the job and the household that is needed. The central category, along with the government, has provided important adjustments to the measures needed. Sadly, all have been acquitted by the government class. The media has also published in the media many suggestions and tips, along with sending suggestions to the Ministry of Presidency as requested. The central category supports this bill, thereby showing responsibility and cooperation, other than the government on the proposals of the Central Party and the Government. The media believes that the government's operation will not go far enough to meet the urgent need for resources in these difficult times for citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u56	A respectable president. The words here have been used more than a little bit less. It would be nice to have a belt and bracelet in this condition when there's a lot of uncertainty. It is the job of the government and the government to eliminate uncertainty by their actions. It has not been successful so far, it is still uncertain after the first and second packages - and who knows what happens in the third? We still have no detailed information on this or how to solve the problem we face. The Pirata Parliamentary Group has provided a number of suggestions in the management field, especially in innovations, to meet the very hole that is developing in Iceland's employment. They have all been cut off for some reason, and at the same time, employment insurance has also been prevented from covering the safety network that should exist. As a result, Porta's body doesn't vote, and I say, Yellow is probably used every day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u57	Mr. President. We're here paying votes on the Oddný G. adjustment proposal. My hard-on Harðardóttir and mine to raise the stress jobseekers get because of the child's implementation from 4% to 6%. That's a good suggestion. It is accomplished in good cooperation with government and government, and it is thrilled that at the end of the program, it has come to an end of reason. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u58	Mr. President. It is indeed a pleasure, and a good change, to see the vote table green when proposals from a government official are presented here. I am most delighted, indeed, that, but most of all, I am happy that this is where we are accepting a proposal most useful to those who have spent the longest of unemployment and who have to rely on written unemployment benefits. This is good for children's families in a very difficult situation. I'm happy with this conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u59	Mr. President. We're in the final meters, doing this bill. It contains much good things, but it could have done so much better than it does here. As always, little is listened to suggestions for improvement. I'm sorry, but I don't think the government groups would agree to have an important support for non-term innovation companies. There's a lot of damage, and I specifically mention this because at the same time we're dealing with a lot of problems, we also need to consider that the future will not be enough for a short time, as unfortunately in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u60	President. I have agreed with the changes made to make the matter better but will not vote on this case because the point has not been made to make sure that when the State has some kind of support for Covid, all the factors we are calling on are not possible. It's safe there, but not entirely, that the companies don't have a tax bill. We do not fully believe that this enterprise does not make any super-invigoration or anything like that. There are small companies. That can be assured, and to some extent the government support may come back. All these factors are important because money is being given. To be properly treated, you need to look out for these items, which are not done properly in this bill and in some respects nothing at all. That's why we don't support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u61	President. We vote against this case. This is a change in the Annex to the EEA Convention. We now have a bill on a professional network where what is being changed is being carefully updated, but this is about the product's mental rights. They'll be registered in Iceland now. Under it is not only the signal but also the color and taste and smell. Tastes and smells will be heard under logo. Then you say, "What does it look like?" ... ifhewould take advantage of this? Is it Old Spice? Maybe they have to hurry up so they can get this. Maybe the Piranians get it first. What's the taste of left green brand? Is it bitter? A person can jump in, but the absurdity of the situation is that under these brands, both odors and flavors are in harmony with this. Of course, we vote back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u62	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a taxi law. In accordance with local law on motor vehicle vehicles, cab drivers have the authority to temporarily deposit their work permit and many of them have made use of this tool as a result of contracting the rental market because of the effects of the Covid-19 epidemic. However, taxi drivers who have had employment licenses for less than two years are not allowed to enter the employment permit, as the conditions in the current law are that they have started the work permit for two years since it was issued in order to allow it to be submitted. The spread of the virus has had a major impact on the job and the community all over it, and this effect is expected to continue. Tourism, as we know, is one of the most beneficial effects that many cab drivers are doing. Those cab drivers who have had employment licenses for less than two years are in a difficult situation, as the rest suggest in this bill that they can enter their work permit despite having kept their work permit for less than two years. It is suggested that the law be used until the end of 2020. By depositing the permit, cab drivers can save the cost of the job permit and apply unemployment benefits. The objective of the bill is to reduce the economic impacts caused by the Covid-19 pandemic for the bus driver and to maintain the level of equality. V.E.G. President. This is suggested by the bill, for example, that taxi drivers who have had employment licenses for less than two years can enter the employment permit like others, since the duration of the recession in the rental car market is uncertain due to the Covid-19 pandemic. I suggest that this bill be referred to the Environment and Transport Committee and 2rd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u63	Madam President. This is the case that the Pirantars put in as a Covid bill, a suggestion to respond to what is anticipated, that people will lose their home because of the crisis we face. Pirats and I would like to be there first, but because we may be confronted with the biggest crisis of a century, we need to work here at the World Council for a stop. Voluntary sales must be stopped in people's homes. This means one home to people, if people have many real estates, they have to live in a place where they live. This is to protect the homes of the country. Many measures by the government have involved protecting the companies. Some measures have involved strengthening the financial status of children by child making and so on. Other measures have been taken to protect recruitment relationships and, consequently, people's jobs. It's time for us to start thinking about protecting our homes. During the last crisis, after the 2008 collapse of the bank, the government proposed a bill and approved it as a ban on forced sales in people's homes. The last bill of that kind was submitted by the then Minister of the Interior Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who discussed exactly what this bill said, but as shown in the report, this case is exactly based on the case. As a result, there are precedents for this. This step has been taken in these circumstances. Many may say, " Yes, but we are not there today. ' It is not necessary to stop forced sales today. That's why we want to say, this bill has come out. Now I'm measuring for it. That means it's in the processing of a committee here at the council. Then it would be advisable - I know that the Aggressive Organization of the Homes has already sent in a review - that people will be sending in envelopes so that the Allied Committee and the Committee that wins the case will be in the startinghouses, will be ready for reviews, will be looking into a stage, when necessary and completely justified will be, according to the Constitution, the holding rights, as in the final collapse, to complete this. I direct the case to the Committee, and I ask for individuals and members in this concerned community to send reviews to the Generals. If you don't mind me asking, Mr President, how are applications sent to the Generals? Isn't that the name range@althund.is? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] There are reviews, this is 762, involving a change in the law of forced sale, or a postponement of forced sales. Yeah, it's just the simple part. It is time that the Allied Council work hard to get the homes to safety.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u64	A respectable president. We're all in this together. That's what I'm saying. Prime Minister, this is what he says. Our government, however, sets up a bill that would facilitate forced sales, which would make forced sales simpler during the time of the crown. Fortunately, our plans did not succeed during this assembly, but we still want to keep our country's families and homes safe. Thus, the piranha suggest that, during this pandemic, there be no forced sales in the homes of people. This seems to me to be the minimal efforts of this council to ensure the safety of people in their homes at this time. That won't be more important. A respectable president. We have seen in the measures taken by the government and in the discussions and handling of the events that have been going on here because of the reaction to Covid that can be said of government and government opposition, that, certainly, is not the same as where good comes from, it still applies. Good suggestions from the government stand out as cruel, even to take them back and make their own. Now we're going to make this bill, and I'll say here it doesn't matter to me whether the government will accept this bill or take it up on its own initiative, because it should have been long since. You see, I don't care where good things come from. I think it's very important for the government to confirm that people don't have to worry about whether they're losing their home right now, I think they're very important, so that whether the government breaks the point of their mania and even decides to support a good case from the opposition or if they just take it to themselves and take it away themselves, whether it's a requirement. This is the normal requirement we recommend right here and now. I suggest that it be brought to action as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u65	The president would like to state before he leaves for the next speaker that a committee study has been made of the 12th topic, the cab bill, and, of course, the environment and transport committees. This is made clear, but it was wrong in the President's manuscript that the case should be taken to a professional committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u66	Mr. President. I thank you for this bill, and I want to know that I support the bill, and it just didn't allow me to guess on this printed copy of the bill that I was one of the importers. It's important to me. The bill says, with President's permission: From the enunciation of these laws, the businessman is required to grant the request to delay until June 1, 2021, of the decision of the start of auction or of possession of the public market for forced sale... I think all of us must agree here, Mr President, that no family in this country should have to lose their home because of this virus epidemic we are not responsible for. We know how seriously this has affected the economy and the work of many people and families in the country. This is a great challenge that all of us face together in getting through. We have been able to support all the practical suggestions and suggestions aimed at minimising the damage caused by the virus epidemic in our homes and businesses in the country. This is one of those good things that I really hope the greater part will support. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir said in the past that it could end up with the government and then bring the same thing back in two, three weeks and make its own, and that's just how it is. We have seen it happen in this process that the administrative body rejects the opposition and then makes it its two, three weeks later. It may best describe his thinking in all of this. But at any rate, we in our government have done our part, as has been requested to offer suggestions. This has been done and published in the media, sending e - mails to the local prime minister, as requested, and so on. We have certainly endeavored to participate in these practical measures that benefit the homes and businesses of our country. This is a good thing, and I repeat again and again that we must never allow families in Iceland to lose their homes because of this virus epidemic, and this is an important part of it. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for the initiative in this case and for the encouragement of all and members of the United States to support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u67	President. I just wanted to know that I didn't like having it printed up by name. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, who had told me here on the run that he supported the bill and wished to be on it. You see, I sent mail to all members of the council, where they were invited to be partners. I went over today to have the case printed just once, there was nothing wrong with the staff with it, and crossed over those who had sent in a request to be on the case, but forgot to mention why. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for well - prepared communication. I appreciate it. I want to reiterate what I've said about the importance of this case being accepted. In the financial collapse, a surprising number of people, thousands of Icelanders, were lost their home, their apartment home, which still proves to be very difficult for many today, have never recovered. This affects people's spiritual well - being, and we cannot see such things happening again. It was a mistake not to have shown up a bill like this at the time. But we can learn from it. I also hope that this case will be reimbursed in the Committee and men will show it public understanding and well - meaning. It's very important. I don't see what should interfere with this important matter. I think everyone must see that this is supposed to be part of the operations that have been proposed by the government and we've been supporting, as mentioned earlier. I sure hope this case is approved, and it will be granted quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u69	Mr. President. I'm glad we have a bill to postpone forced halls at these times. I am there with a importer, and I am pleased with that. We're entering a period of time, knowing that people are having financial problems, mainly because of unemployment and bankruptcy, and headquarters, and a lot of other consequences of meeting attendance, and the fact that tourists have stopped coming to the country. We're in the beginning, we're in the middle of nowhere, if we're going to make the most of it, like commutations and forced sales. This is by no means the sea, and I think it is very important that we immediately begin to take action such as saying stop forced sales temporarily. I'm not talking about stopping them altogether but temporarily now while we're going through this and while it's showing how severe and how far - reaching and intense this is going to be. So when I was invited to join that bill, I gladly accepted my offer. I believe this will start in the summer or in the fall, that there will be a problem with this in terms of cost. And it must be handled too. After the 2008 economic collapse, the cost to which people were paying for it came at an unrecognizable expense before they responded, i.e. The debt. And it also has to be in some way how we as a community are going to deal with the situation when perhaps tens of thousands of people, family heads, and family mothers find themselves unable to pay their debts, and they are going to collect interest and money. This will happen in the weeks and months that we will have to do it somehow. Somehow we have to stop it. The government's actions must take into account, in the weeks and months, how we will prevent people from getting into debt before it is considered. It happened in the collapse. Debts increased, and according to the justice minister's response to a question from what? paritaprevir The Ólafur Ísleifsson of Isenus, whom he proposed at his last assembly, was after the 2008 economic collapse, in the following years, sold to 10,000 individual property, apartment property, apartment property, and yet not reaching the level of unemployment that we watch up to now. So I think it's very important to go into this, to stop forced sales. At one point when I was talking about this in non related matters, members of the council said that the debts that are now being demanded of people, and that were the cause of these types being going on right now, were old debts, something that had been taken long before that time. But there is an emergency in society, and we must respond. Although you owe something in winter, you are no better able to pay for it now after this latest event here, as unemployment increases faster than ever before. I was going to review this inquiry why. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun, but all I would like to mention is that forced sales started slowly, but in one or two years they reached a climax. So this is not something that happens in a single institution. Rather, it is at a cost some time before it comes to administering lawyers first and then to the politicians and to those who meet these requirements for the demands. So I think it is necessary to act immediately and deal specifically with people who are in serious debt. The 2008 government responded by forming the office of an agent in debt. I didn't hear any beautiful stories about that arrangement. It was a haven that once worked for a while, and people walked out of it, the majority I've heard and talked to, not very happy. This was a delay, and some say that postponement is the best, but in this case people lived with it, despite this arrangement, that they cannot repay, very many. It worked for someone. There's gonna need some new methods. We need to figure out some new ways to stop people from being badly affected, especially if this is going to take a long time. I don't have any ideas about it right now, but you have to meet the cost of interest, collect costs, and the level of these debts completely out of control on a year's trip. I think that would be the most realistic action we could figure out right now, trying to stop a man from getting a hook like that in a year's journey. I may well come up with some further ideas about it in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u70	President. As I mentioned in my speech earlier, this case is exactly like a case that Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, the highest. former Minister of the Interior, submitted and accepted 2013. Then it went to the General and Education Committee and I suggest it will be again now. It took just nine days to accept the matter. It was submitted on December 10, and adopted on December 19. So if it's all right with the government, especially if it was done at the time, and this is the example and the case is the same, then it can be taken down very quickly, so I'll point it back to what. General and Education Committee, huh? The president there, Páll Magnússon, and other members of the committee, call for reviews and reviews. No matter what may eventually be done about it, when the government thinks it is time to stop the forced sales, it can be done very quickly. But I'd also like to remind you that one case, halting a forced sale, was approved and submitted to the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, with left greens and with the Conspiracy. It was presented as a bill in the history of the government of Sigmunds of Davíð, Gunnlaugsson of Gunnal, and Bjarni, son of Benediktsson, the forward party, and the Independence Party. All four groups have suggested this and are granted approval at the General Assembly. The case will be sent to the General and Education Committee. It can be handled quickly and effectively. I hope that the government and the government sent them a clear message that we're going to work fast and hard and be ready to do this right away because, as mentioned, people are already missing their jobs and are before forced sales. Many who cannot get out of today's situation. This is the bridge that can be built for the people of the country who lose their homes, to bridge over this Covid situation, temporarily postpone these forced halls. So once we get over the worst conditions and people can get back on their feet, they can start off, keep their possessions, keep their homes, that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u71	A respectable president. The following will be the third time on program 1. a change in the law of foreigners. The reason that this has been delayed is first profound opposition from some government officials who have prevented this indiscriminate issue from being brought to the committee. However, what I have felt was lacking in the discussion is to hear the opinions of those in charge, to understand how this dramatic change was from the highest degree. Department of Social Affairs announced that he would stop sending children back to Greece, regardless of their status, two months ago. But the situation now is that it is certain that all children who have been protected in Greece can be rescinded to Greece. So I encourage those in charge to participate in the follow-up discussion, justifying this terrible act.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u72	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the development and maintenance laws in terms of the efforts of rural cartels. The main objective of the bill is to strengthen the development of municipal irrigation initiatives in order to meet the European Commission laws on water management and waste management and waste management. The bill is made up at the Environment and Resource Ministry, having agreed with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, the EEA, the European Union of rural and Commonwealth. Funds for 2020, approved on March 30th, suggest that there be a rate of less than 18 billion. a provision for a special temporary investment investment campaign to counteract the recession of the economy following a pandemic crown virus. One of the investment projects in aquifers is the work of working with state and rural society in harmony with the promise of a government contract. Two hundred billion is expected. K. will be provided for the reporting work in 2020. The bill suggests that the state strengthens the development of municipal irrigation projects in the year 2020 and 2030. It is suggested that comparable arrangements will be adopted to support the development of rural society under the legislation to support the implementation of urban waste management partners, No. 53/1995. Under the law, the government could study up to 200 million. K. This year, however, as detailed in budgets, the amount never higher than 20% of the total confirmed amount of efficiency. This bill does not assume that the annual peak will be 200 million. K. It is expected that funding for this project will be determined by the General Assembly, with a view to a fixed amount of money in financial and financial matters at a time. The amount has not yet been determined. According to a report by the government's labour group on proposals that the implementation of the government's support of urbanisations could result in a cumulative cost of municipal irrigation over the next ten years in the range of 27.59.59.5 billion. Of these, 15◯20 billion are responsible for projects aimed at implementing the regulations on waste and sewage, 2.5 billion for cleaning over water, including microplastics, and 10◯17 billion for the restoration of existing cleaners with a single step cleaning of sewage. If up to 20% of the government's reimbursement could result in a total of 5.53/4.9 billion, of which 33/4 billion would be due to projects aimed at evaporating the requirements, 500 million from surface water cleaning, and 25.93.4 billion due to improvements in existing cleaners by a single step of cleaning sewage. If the cost is evenly distributed over a ten - year period, the annual cost of the government would be 300◯400 million on projects aimed at meeting requirements, 50 million on top of water cleaning, and 2003/440 million because of an increase in one step of sewage cleaning, a total of 550,790 million a year. At that time, the bill estimates that the Environment and Resource Minister will be committed to the provision of the funds provided by the Member States. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u73	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. Of course, here is an important matter, going into trouble in the urban affairs of the country. Farmers have fought for the past decade to make a change in credit laws, so that rural society receives 100% reimbursement tax on irrigation. Today, several members of the Independence Party have also submitted to the General Assembly twice during the current election period, a Senate bill to support these local groups' demands that their rural communities receive annumation from paying a valuable tax on a curative basis. Clearly, this bill is not meeting the local struggle. It is actually going contrary to their will when it comes to their idea of using a discount on the merit tax for these projects. I think this is a sign of what we've seen in the government's package of action, that it's missing this consultation with the rurals. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Now I know that there was a committee that suggested this, but why wasn't the local community more listened to this? Is this not the best time for them to manage the situation on their own, and then by getting those refunds back? If the highest. A minister could consider only why they were not looking to what societies have so spoken.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. I do not agree at all with the fact that the local community's struggles are not being met, for it is now in the government covenant of the ruling parties. It was consulted with the rurals. First, when I recall correctly, a team of workers I formed on October 1 of last year, which was due around the New Year's Eve or in January, where the United States was represented by a member of the Union. The European Union was also consulted with the European Union on the contract of this bill. The question, then, is: Why was this way chosen, to go along with this regular amount of money each year, which has been determined in 2020 and not in other years? In other words, the conclusion of the group was that in this funding system, the most suitable export was created, in which it strengthened the policy of the simple value of the tax system, as well as that it would then be uncivilized in the hands of the General Assembly without self-activating in cost interest. But the choices are, or were, that the exception was given from a merit tax that, in the opinion of the governor, would not be a good way. Reimbursement, given by the head of state taxation, can be considered, or the increased budgets, that the government tax manager also pointed to in his consideration of the bill as far as it is concerned. A senator mentioned that several members of the Independence Party had presented themselves here. These are the basic reasons for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u75	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. This is a means of sponsorship and may be a dosing strategy, therefore it is being dosed by certain rural communities to take some of these initiatives, which is, in fact, put into the minister of which rural communities will gain strength and who will not, instead of being able to control it a little by themselves. We know that when the need for construction is up to 80 billion, there are 200 million dollars. It's just a drop in the ocean of sponsorship. Besides, you ask yourself: If the Allied council is going to decide on this annually, we'll see naturally, after the enormous expenditures that state funds are now due to the virus epidemic, that it's obvious that it needs to be adjusted in time to reach the angle of the state's funds - is not expected, at the highest level. Minister, that there will only be a very small amount of money when it comes to this funding arrangement set up in the light of the economic situation and the future, to extend the balance of the state's funds? Then you might have wondered if it would have been, in the end, a better way to go this worthy tax way, and then rural society could have controlled it a little bit by itself. For me, it seems somehow that there won't be much change in this funding system in time, there may be 200 million now, and then we don't know about the rest. I hope I'm wrong, but I hope the Council sees the importance of taking such action that is truly important, but the steps scare a little.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u76	V.E.G. President. The amount of money this year, this 200 million, is something that was not just taken out of the air but that was precisely discussed with the European Union. I think it's very important that we can distribute these projects over the next ten years in a reasonable way. That is what the bill on page 19. 4How5 is it clear that it is important to try to create the greatest possible insight into the distribution of funds to save your partner and to take into account the programmes of the proposed projects and the timing of individual projects, to allow them to spread somewhat even over the years of 2020-2030. This is the task ahead of calling out for it, and the information is largely available, what projects are ready for, and will be ready in the years to come, so the project is to cover it. The main issue is, naturally, the joy of having us reassigning our community's reporting system to a much better-than-this-day culminating system. In many rural areas there is a lack of law and regulations, and, of course, it is particularly enjoyable to assume that this will also help to strengthen the improvement in topwater solutions that can prevent the introduction of microplastic pollution into the sea. So I think that we all agree on this purpose, to strengthen our communities in coping with these important challenges.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u77	Mr. President. We're here to discuss the improvement in the reporting system. As all members of Congress know, there are very different public positions in the reporting system from one rural community to another, and as a result of the release by the receptor, there are two types, i.e. On the one hand, the sea and the other, water and rivers, that has been the case, and then we can talk about decomposition as a third possibility. This is different. These are rural areas that have very sensitive receptors, such as, for example. Just what has been done to remedy the problem? Other rural areas have similar receptors, sensitive ones, and so are rural areas where seawater is active, but the irrigation issues are out of order. What a rich garden that is! Since the removal of this support because of the collapse of the time, local members of the community have been calling for help. For the first time, it has become the call of the current government, which, like the highest. The minister came on, had installed this into his contract. The improvements turn to the new ones, turn to the cleaning equipment itself, and, of course, a variety of repairs, reforms, and other items. This is very extensive, and it can also be pointed out that the cleansing itself can be the first, second, or third degree. Yes, we've seen that the first level of cleansing we call, e.g. Here in the capital area, the removal of plastics and other items that we consumers or residents of the area put in waste disposal equipment, which is a shame to many people. In the bill, we also focus our eyes on a microplastic which is very important. It is being cleared from surface waters that are relatively easy for the microplastic process. This has been shown to be the comparison of microplastic microspheres in Iceland and e.g. In other countries such as Sweden, we have far more of such things in the sea here, including With a drain, but a comparable country. It has been revealed, as I recently mentioned in a talk, that almost all around the country contains a series of microplastics, just to mention it. Even if we're not going to vacate the microspheres from all the drains in the country, at least taking the first step with the top water. Everybody is running a long time, if we can say so, the long-term plans there. Thus, the 200 million people here make up a subject, saying that a drop is in the ocean, are only the first step, and in accordance with what the European Union has thought possible to do this summer, so it is not a significant thing in itself. What's significant is what the Council puts into it for financial purposes. Then I'd like to point out that the route, if we talk about it, is a reimbursement of a valuable tax that is supposed to be a country partner's way to decide for themselves what they want for reimbursement, is also something to be determined on financial and financial matters. It also involves any situation that makes it necessary for us to subtract the sails or save them, whether it is Covid or anything else, so that the road and route are very similar when it comes to determining the sum and how they are found. Of course, there is no unlimited open check on the sink, rather than an unlimited check on strength. I don't see this big difference. I would like to point out that exactly these measures, to undergo bypass surgery, whether this year or the next year, is, of course, one way to increase the level of employment, to increase the level of employment, and that is, of course, one purpose of next year's economic action. I look at this in the context of the situation, and in the context of the need to take these steps in irrigation matters, and again I stress that this is a 10 to520 years of action, simply because of the importance of bypass issues, but they're also complicated, and they're in many places. This, therefore, cannot be seen in a scale less than one to two decades. I guess so. The Environment and Transport Committee will take care of the situation and, when it comes to it, there will be votes, and on the committee, a pretty good agreement on the irrigation process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u78	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying at first that, of course, I'm fully involved in this series of subjects, which is very important, and I think we all agree on that. This may be just a matter of methodology when it comes to the state's approach to the communities. We all know that Iceland and I have a long way to bring waste disposal in line with the commitment that the State has made by Member States in the European Economic Area. It's coming even. in the careful report of the Industrial Association on Investors since 2017, it is clear that there is a great need for reforms in this category to meet regulations. It is only natural and normal for us to think that these matters are all right. In recent years, the environmental awareness of the people of the land has grown very much, and this is a group of subjects we would like to, of course, to be like others to associate with nature. Inadequate sewage cleaning can have a profound and negative impact on the environment. For example, large amounts of waste, such as plastic, are expected to flow from irrigation water into the environment, such as in the winter. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in here, where there is little or no cleaning, especially in the country. A significant discussion has been made on the possible damage to waste waste materials, which have not been actually given sufficient attention to waste disposal until now. Then we're talking about the microplastic and then the remains of medicine, as mentioned. It can be assumed that now and during the next phases, there will be more room for contractors to work more effectively. In view of the economic situation, there is a recession in investments and practical projects, so, of course, it is an ideal year - long trip to take on this important initiative. Simply because of the situation we are in as a result of the viral epidemic and the high decline in the economy that comes with it, this is the ideal time to get into the process of irrigation. This bill is disappointing to my judgment in this regard. The Minister of Environment has now waited for this, I think, for two years after he took over the Minister's office, to appoint this task force, and the bill was not in the Government Constitution for the current legislature. I have to say, I think this is a bit of a lack of interest at the highest level. While a minister with this matter, I do know that he is interested in the environment in general, in some way, it seems that there are often and often forgotten by this system. It's not good enough for me to know, and this situation is serious. As the data taken together, these demonstrate that only 23% of the population lives in the waste disposal system that meets the regulations of the capital area. Environment should be drawn on the basis of public protection and environmental quality criteria, not as some source of tax pools, as it were. The State is to encourage the rural communities to work on this environmental problem, to be handsomely supported so that they can fulfill these legal obligations, and to encourage them to increase waste disposal in order to reduce pollution of water and seawater. Besides, just because all of our food productions on their beginning and ending, such as When it comes to the fishing industry and agriculture, and it is only very important that these things are in order, especially if we are going to take on the effort to produce domestic food. That's one of those things you need to be doing. The rationale for this process in terms of financing is that it supports a policy on the basic value of the tax system, as well as the non-circumcised capital in the hands of the General Assembly, without self-activating interest in expansion. I have, of course, been a spokesman for the general body of his budget without interference from the government. Sadly, though, we have seen something else in these budgets that we have been working on today's financial committee. It is obvious that the budget and the Ministry of finance have been taking turns with the Federal Government and it is very bad and good to hear it stated in this paper by this bill that it should be respected and promoted. So there's a little twin in this, I think, in that respect. However, it is obvious that any action aimed at not changing anything will not change anything, and therefore this will automatically lead to a policy on the simple value of the tax system. It's a way that the rural communities have fought for, so you are a little surprised to learn that it has not been chosen. But closer to this dosing system, which I want to call, because we're about to do some money on the farm society, and then we're gonna have to pick out our communities, and there's a limited amount of money to choose. Candidates are required to apply for electronic grants and should follow detailed information on the implementation and costs and the conditions for financial support the implementation of the overall solution to municipal irrigation organisations in accordance with the agreed schedule. It is then assumed that rural partners will set up a more comprehensive schedule for planned projects and related costs. It is then assumed that the secretary will agree with the European Union and the Community on further regulations for the implementation of the Regulation. As I said before, the rural communities of the past decade have fought for a change in the law of values taxes, in effect, that they get 100% reimbursement tax on irrigation. A few members of the Independence Party also double, as I mentioned here in answer to the Supreme Court. Minister, put in an up-to-date season for the Senate primes to support the requirements of the local community, that their rural communities would receive an exception from paying a tax on irrigation projects. It is quite clear that according to this bill, the Independence Party has had to submit to the power of the left greens within the government when it is clear that they have not been listened to this case of the Independence Party at the council on reimbursement of a valuable tax to a system of irrigation. It is quite clear to me that a minister is going contrary to the will of the senators who have committed these bills and the rural groups, to a large extent, by choosing a way of strengthening and dosing, where, in fact, is under his heel whether and which rural communities are being given the strength to the necessary accounts. Once again, I want to reiterate my support for this campaign. This is an important campaign, and it is the right year to go to it in the next few years, but the need is enormous, and it is just a matter of methodology. In January of this year, a report by the Environment Ministry (EEC) came in which the state's support for rural development has been made, and there is the suggestions for this working group. The report also shows that in the assessment of irrigation issues done in 2017, it would be necessary to restore the ECC status of 50 ◯80 billion dollars to the appropriate level. Invest. This is an enormous amount, and the 200 million that we discuss are, as I said before, just a drop in the ocean. Therefore, you are afraid that there will be no place to play in this planned funding system in the coming years and years because of it, as I mentioned earlier in the contrast, it is certainly necessary to consider how to pay down the great slope that is going to be paid for the expenses associated with the Korean epidemic. We're talking about numbers like 250 billion bucks. Laying on the treasure of the Kingdom, he could become even greater. Somehow you fear that there will be a cut down in various funds and such things, and this will be one of the factors that could be affected. Of course, I hope you don't. If the other route had been selected, it would have been a natural loss of income for the state's funds in the form of a postmortem tax, but this may have contributed to the development of the rural communities. That means that they have to hire contractors and designers and all that goes with it, and then they come to pay a bill of government money, and I have special pay, e.g. to employees, etc., and it yields more tax returns to state funds. This is, therefore, something that looks different than when a government fund is just spending a certain amount of money on hand in this way. So, I just want to encourage, at last, Mr. President, that this will be well discussed in the Committee and people ask the necessary questions in this context, get visitors to the Commission from the rural community, receive local managers at a meeting of the Committee, and listen to those who are close to this and have to go on such projects or have thought for a long time and may have been thinking about it. To hope that the cost of taxation would be gone. To get the opinion of these parties is of utmost importance in this work because, as I said earlier, it is far too much to believe that the government has too little consultation with rural society. We saw, and we've seen at work with the budget and this government's package of action, the communities that arrived at the branch committee have specifically complained that they have not had enough agreement with the proposals the government has given since, and we have been working within the Committee. This is very shocking because, naturally, our rural communities are of great importance in what lies ahead, both in the economic activities we need to take on and in the community, the needs of the expenses of the virus epidemic. In addition, they have lost a lot of money, so it is very important that they have a wide range of good consultations at all levels in the local community, and this is one of the major issues. [[The president calls.]] I really hope the committee realizes that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u79	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the building laws and management laws. Here it is my judgment of a very important matter, an important proposal for cooperation between state and rural society on the improvement of irrigation agencies and a solution that may have been a little problem for the government over the last few years. The main objective of the bill is to strengthen the urban waste-mates-in-the-country infrastructure legislation, water management laws and waste management regulations. It is suggested that for ten years, a donation from a government fund to a municipal irrigation agency will be made and the arrangement will be comparable to the support existing by the law on supporting the development of rural society in irrigation companies, No. 53/1995. I believe that all the rural governments in the United States were actually waiting for that support to come to an end when it came to the realization that there are natural societies and society that are very important to them. Well done, in accordance with law and order, there are certain guarantees of the purity of the environment to land and sea, to the inhabitants and guests of each community, but also to the purity of the production in communities and food production. This matter has been discussed for a long time, and there has been considerable consultation. It is in the report with the bill that the task force appointed by Environment and Resource Minister on October 1, 2019, has worked on this. I don't fully understand from the report each combination of the final motions involved in the work force and whether there were any suggestions for implementation there, as it indicates that there were no conventional consultations with the collection of the bill. That is why I am a little curious to know what had happened for perhaps a year and a half, two years. We're reviewing what's stable here. It will be done in the tailoring and collection systems, cleaners, pumping stations, and vents. What is new is that the cost of design, research, and construction is also stable. I think it is very important because I know that it caused several smaller rural communities a specific headache, during the first period of this support under older law, that they did not have enough basis to build on the circumstances of each room or company that can be rivers or lakes, and that they really need to investigate what the network's receptor is doing and how it affects the receptor that is present. I also think the research strength will make the solutions that will be more specific and can lead to innovation, new solutions. I think it's very important that this project will not be too narrow to look at, so there's space to go new ways if research shows that it's wise. In this way, new solutions to the design can be created. Previous public speakers have identified part of this effort to counteract microplastic contamination in the ocean. It is also assumed that a water management strategy will be taken into account in relation to the water management programme which I think is also very important in this context. Only on the project. You should post applications every year, but, of course, it would be rather obvious that they were only seen each year because they are all long-term projects, as presented here. Therefore, rural society is expected to produce a projection and long-term cost and it will be possible to establish and schedule specific projects in order to create foreseeability for each member of the community during this period of the year, 2020 in 2020,2030. Finally, I'd like to reiterate that I believe this is a very important matter that I look forward to dealing with on a environmental and transport committee. State and rural development activities are on the Agency's policy list and are part of government policy so that we are taking here an important step that falls on both governments and rural groups and on political parties as well as on anti-Covid policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u80	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. The members of the council for today's discussion that I like and especially because it's obvious that we all agree on the big environmental issues that are being discussed, and it's about improving municipal irrigation issues. I'm going to come a little bit on different avenues to finance this, and I only came in with the counter and my previous speech. They turn to the path selected. It's certainly one way to recommend annuity tax or a reimbursement tax or to go on the path selected here. One of the advantages of going by the strengthening route is the ability to go over 20%, mentioned in my introduction speech, in support of smaller rural areas or rural areas where relatively few residents are behind animal projects, e.g. in sensitive receptors. It must also be considered that if the cost of taxation had gone, there would be a natural loss of income for a government fund and, of course, we are building this strengthening arrangement on something we know well from the past. Only about what was mentioned about the alleged indifference of the person here on the reporting system will I carry a volleyball of myself, for that is not the case at all. However, I took a considerable amount of time for preparatory work, that is no secret. This preparatory work included the microplastic material, i.e. a detailed assessment of the path of microplastics to the sea should be performed so that such a assessment can be based on the wisdom of action. So did I with regard to the remains of medication. There was also a study or assessment and then an assessment of the potential for use of seyrium. I think it's a sign of good management and organization and forethought to take advantage of looking at things first before they are attacked. I specifically mention this because it is extremely important that we not only engage in irrigation projects to fulfill existing laws and regulations but also to look to the future in which all microplastic pollution is more important and since the use of such waste as seyrria is more relevant to the future in terms of the economy. Hv. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson said that there was no incident in these cases for ten years despite the appeal of a unit and that I agree with it. At the same time, a member of the council felt that the apathy of the person mentioned here is no more than that, so this is the case. I think we'll both be happy about that, and I know we will. Only on a discussion mentioned here. Hv. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir asked if the interaction was between the appointed working group and the bill. Basically, the bill is based on the workgroup. The work force was appointed by the representatives of the Environment Ministry, the Ministry of finance, the Ministry of State and the Union's Office of Congress and the suggestions presented on this work. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Linguist on the importance of granting grants can also reach the necessary pre-work and design costs that are particularly useful for smaller rural communities, which may be harder to overcome. Of course, this is how it is thought that when the distribution takes place, it can be viewed for a period of time and as a whole on a nation's irrigation case over a period of ten years and that it can be replaced. But I know why. The Environment and Transport Committee will, of course, take this matter to heart. In any case, there are differences in our views of exporting, all of us agree on the goals involved. We agree that this effort is long-term, we agree that it will promote projects, this will promote the level of employment, and will help us fill more with environmental requirements in Iceland. Of course, it is very important, and I would especially like to mention, once again, that we are looking at not only narrowly in meeting current regulations but also looking to deal with microplastics and to use them more fully than is being done today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u81	Mr. President. We have here at the Senate Hall and in the second job of the General Assembly in the last few weeks, and we have started a month, discussing each case after another as hopes and expectations to assist people, homes, and businesses in the struggle we now have in the wake of the Covid epidemic that has gone pretty close to beating our economy. With this suggestion I recommend here, the spotlight is directed to sports. It deals with the support of children's sports activities because of Covid-19 and serves as a convergence party. There is nothing but a hurry to consider, since other members of the council were not consulted, but I know for sure that the matter is very supportive to those on it. I'd like to read up, as the law expects, in fact, not a law, but tradition assumes it, suggest itself, and explain more clearly her spirit and what we expect to do with it. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: The General concluded to hide the minister of finance and education and culture in order to give the scholarship to sports practice for every child aged 6 to 18 years living in Iceland. The strength will be in the form of a gift letter to me - here I had to give in, I had to use the word sports, but I was told by younger people that there were generations in this country who do not know the word. But it's late and I suggest we pick it up later, because that's a much better word for me. The column will be in the form of a letter of gift at the price of $25,000. which will be allowed to be used for the payment of practicers'fees in organized sports activities for sports companies to June 1, 2021. Ministers provide funding for the project and pay for athletes at every month's match for the gift letters that the budget has taken over that month. Ministers propose that the necessary changes in law and funding and provide for the council in time so that gifts can be distributed by the end of May 2020. We all know this, and it has been shown in our discussion that, like so many other associates and many other activities today, we have to deal with the decline in income and activities of Covid and naturally try to do so without their work being affected. A considerable deal of government and welfare committees has been examined as to whether there is a way to get workers of sports associates, coaches, and students in other courses' activities into the partial improvement process. The fact is, it doesn't fit in there for all kinds of reasons, except for certain full - time athletes who work for the full - time servants. Coaches are often at sports companies in part - time work or as contractors, so to speak, so they don't fit in. This does not change the fact that for the sports companies in the country, it is extremely important to maintain employment relationships with exactly these employees because we have made a success of it, with a coordinated effort that was not a simple matter, to set the criteria very high when it comes to recruiting employees for sports associates, the employees we then entrusted with the training of our children and adolescents. It's all very well educated people, it's very experienced, and it's doing a great job. I trust to claim that voicing is more important than the sports business to maintain employment relations with employees. We also know that a number of studies, not only in the vast world, but also in the large world, we live as well as in well - educated, well - educated people who have studied this country, show that the relationship between sports and mental and physical strength is extremely important. It is put to death that organized sports has a positive effect on learning, feelings, and self - esteem for children and young people. Then it has a preemptive value when it comes to drugs and alcohol. This is almost indistinguishable, I suppose, so I think we all agree that the value of sports jobs for children and adolescents is very much. This brings us back to what this suggestion involves. In view of the fact that in the coming months and even beyond the extended period of time, there will often be a loss on what people can deny. If the choice exists between maintaining a home, paying for food and other necessities, then, unfortunately, sports and leisure activities are one of the things some will need to put aside. We also live in the summer when children and teenagers will be at home, they'll be here in Iceland like us adults. It is priceless to be able to search our sports institutions after studies and other leisure activities that may shorten the time. This requires that people be able to afford and pay for it and naturally that their sports companies receive payment so that they can offer up the ministry. If we are not going to leave this situation in our life today, we need to take some measures that will cause young ones to lose this vital aspect of their lives and that they lose enormous sums of money. This is not the only loss of income that our sports companies face. It's advertising revenues, it's the conventions that are completely uncertain. A great number of sports companies support each year on incomes that come from one, two, three, large conventions during the summer. That money's not coming. I am very aware that the budget approved by the Council for a weekend is 600 million. K. which will be spent to the rural community in order to give strength to less - income homes so that children can pursue sports and other leisure activities during the summer, as they have been said. That's all right. It is not nearly enough, and it is unclear how the sum will be divided between sports and other activities of various forms of culture mentioned in the report and in the discussion. What is left behind? It is also undisputed how this is divided, whether it is between special relationships, or whether it goes directly to the sports institutions, or how it goes down. What this proposal has ahead of us is two: On the one hand, this sums up as more people take advantage of it, but the big thing is that it's a coin that goes directly to the youths and children who want to take advantage of it, which goes directly from them to the sports club. No middleman, there's no other way to use this. If you calculate the total cost, there are about 60,000 children and adolescents in this country at 6 to 18 years of age and if all these individuals take advantage of the letter of gift. is the total cost of 1.5 billion. By 2018 there were well over 40,000 children, this age, athletes, or about 40 thousand. 70%. If we make that calculation, we're talking about over a billion. That's obviously an enormous amount of money. But it's a coin that doesn't go to some hidden pit. We will know exactly what he will do, what will benefit families, children, and sports partners. If the letter of gift is not new, it will drop. Of course, I would say, and I can give very convincing reasons that it would be best for society if everyone took advantage of this, that would be the least social cost, but that is, if the letter of gift is not used, it will fall down. We know the value of athletic activities for mental and physical health and thus for the community as a whole. I'm prepared to be prepared, for there will be a considerable discussion of the amount, if the case goes further, as I hope, about $25,000. and overall. I'm just here for that discussion, and I'm listening to reasons both in the direction that this should be higher or lower. But I am absolutely convinced that this way, with a sports check or a gift letter, depending on which generation you belong, is the longest way to meet the status of young people in and make sure that our sports companies, this jewel that they are, will continue to be the most powerful member of their lives and work a number of youths and children. You can see that, 70% of children aged 6◯18 are involved in organized sports. There is no small thing, and losing it costs a lot. Mr. President. I requested that the case be referred to the General and Education Committee, and I have a lot of expectations that it will be handled well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u82	Mr. President. Me and the Icelanders are supposed to do our part because of the refugee crisis we all know so well, especially Europe. We can't go against it. But our contribution will always be limited by size and strength, so it is only. We are to follow a similar arrangement, as far as international protection is concerned, and in other parts of the North countries, we are expected to do so among the nations that we would like to compare with. The discussion of this group tends to become harsh, especially when discussing the unfounded applications for global protection. In addition, especially when it comes to children, she may become emotionally charged. Recently, the debate has been about what constitutes a secure state and what is not, i.e. When those who come here for international protection have received it elsewhere. The recommended change in the bill will make it possible for people who come here from countries where they have already been protected to receive an automatic rejection of national protection. All of us agree to watch over human rights, and all of us agree that kindness and human kindness are also needed. All of us agree that we should assist those who need assistance during difficult times. I also assume that we all agree that it is not acceptable that some people use this system with unfounded applications with the appropriate delay for those who really need help and relief. It should be noted that the discussion of this problem was a major issue in the media three years ago. Then, for example, it was. According to current prime minister, Bjarni Benediktsson, on the unfounded application, the experience of governments in other lands was the importance of applying the consistent interpretation of the rules, for otherwise we were invited home to have the increased number of restitutions that would be rejected and that, at the same time, would reduce our ability to help those who really need shelter. I suppose we can agree that at the same time as we would like to help those who need it is really unacceptable that a number of people have made unnecessary use of our Iceland's system of money at stakes for government funds and taken care of the payments that really need a release, a direct misuse of the system that has also cost, as I say, the taxpayers a lot of money, money that could have been used to help those who are in real need or in the social security system in general. You might sometimes think that this is some kind of special problem. Real life certainly isn't like that. There are many cases of this subject from other countries, some of which show the scope of the problem. We'll see, for example. A message from the Norwegian government. The Norwegian government has an advertisement in the form of a video on major networks, Facebook, etc., of the rules available in Norway. The advertisement's headline is, why risk your life? It says: ▪ Are you leaving your country for a better standard of living? You're leaving your country for work? These are not legal reasons for gaining international protection in Norway. You'll be referred back. Go on says: ▪ Many people have lost their lives or been abused on their way to Europe. Since 2014, over 10,000 people have died on their way across the Mediterranean Sea. Why risk your life and spend your savings on paying contracts when you are not allowed to be in Norway? This is an advertisement published by the Norwegian government on the main networks. Then you can find another advertisement from the Norwegian government that discusses the high standards for international protection in Norway. In fact, in recent years many thousands of people who applied for international protection were dismissed and in 2016 the rules were expanded. Thus, in each of the main networks, the Norwegian government makes it very clear that those who come there for international protection do not need protection. They can do this, e.g. that they have made a deal with Turkey that all those who come from it will be referred to. A 2015 Norwegian report shows that 5,500 prostitutes came from the border of Norway and Russia in a few weeks. In Norway and elsewhere, the matter was given much attention, causing the rules to be changed and intensified. Are we prepared to receive that number of applications in a few weeks? It could happen. And how will we respond? Will we consider each individual's case regardless of whether the individual has already found refuge in another country? We also remember the number of people who applied for asylum in Europe, as reported in the news for a long time. The report on the bill shows that in the implementation of alien law, it has been shown to correct, review, and change the various laws of the law so that their conduct and treatment of the cases that fall under them are clear and clear. Then they say: ▪ Among the considered topics, there are clearly points that concern priority measures clearly the unrecognised applications. The report also shows that there have been a large increase in applications in 2016 from national cities that have been identified as secure states and a considerable number from other countries where there is a general need to flee persecution. Go on says: In 2017 this trend continued, and as the year passed, the number of candidates for international protection in Iceland was one of the greatest in Europe and the largest in the Northern countries, with a ravishing number in spite of the country's population. I also noticed a description in the report: It was found that in many respects the number of applications that are clearly exposed to unfounded applications and other candidates who are generally considered to be in need of international protection. As a result of the increase in candidates from safe sources, the government focused on a faster payment of these cases by apparently strengthening the priorities of unfounded applications. With the aim of improving effectiveness and reducing the number of applications such as these, the Engaging Regulation on the No. 540/2017 changed by Regulation No. 775/2017. Even there was a number of them. specific treatment, i.e. Prioritive treatment of unfounded applications, which was supposed to shorten the treatment period. Following the implementation of the Regulation, the NTSB considered this to be so that certain regulations of the Council had not been adequately corrected and therefore has not been fully applied. Therefore, it is considered necessary to bring some of its contents into the law itself. The government's efforts to reduce the number of unfounded applications were effective. In the latter part of 2017, the number of citizens from secure countries applying for international protection dropped, and the number of candidates for international protection on the land fell from over 700 people at the beginning of 2017 to over 400 by 2018. Let's take a look at the situation today: However, in the group that follows the results of their applications for global protection, the increase has been seen. During 2019 C.E., an average of 600 individuals have accepted a service while awaiting their release or resurgence to another State. The management board is now unable to provide applications within an acceptable time and the cost of maintaining international protection rapidly. The foundation of this can be said to have two major reasons. First of all, the number of people looking for protection from war - torn countries, especially Iraq and Afghanistan, has increased somewhat. Second, despite not being fugitives from persecution in their ethnic background, the number of those applying for international protection has grown greatly again. In the latter group, people from safe ethnic states, in the second place, people who live according to the Dublin Protocol to apply for and find their conclusions for protection in another European country, or even already applying for international protection in another European country, and third, people who have already received the status of a fugitive in Europe, but who choose to come to this country and apply for international protection again. It is reason to react to this increase by simplifying the application procedure once the applicant has already received international protection in order to improve the effectiveness and shorten the duration of the treatment. Mr. President. That must be a good approach. The discussion of this subject has been made in two or three cases. Councilmen, that the concept of efficiency is one of the worse in this category, or that's how I understood their language. Then you ask yourself, " Is it not so important to confirm and effectiveness a country like this so that those who really need protection will have it, and it is prior to knowing what is going on when you apply for international protection in this country, as the Norwegian have published so thoroughly and I reported earlier? ' As mentioned above, the bill is an aid in enabling governments to quickly and safely deliver applications that generally do not lead to global protection by reducing the number of such applications. Is it fundamental to the fact that governments have space to focus on the number of candidates who are actually in need for protection and protection? I'd like to agree with this in the highest bill. The minister of justice and the right to point out that it would have been a responsibility to wait for this bill's donation. The evolution of this class is uncertain, especially in the light of the viral epidemic. Although the arrival has diminished today, we do not know how these issues will develop when freedom of movement is restored. Granted, it has been possible to have the influence, and it will likely even increase the number of refugees. Mr. President. I'm about to finish my case. I'd like to say, though, that the system we've put up has been abused. And it's being abused. It is known in many lands, and this is why countries such as Norway are hardened by the rules. To this country, people come through this system, which is then abused by other people, e.g. In prostitution, abused by people who had the means to bring them here. People come through this system to try to get a job and even get it through the black economy so called abuse. The lawgiver has to take this action. It is our responsibility and duty. I've been tracking this in my debate in response to the highest degree. Minister. We have this information from the Marshal, and it's no mystery. These are facts. There are many ways to abuse things. We know that. They try to abuse a government fund. We'll see that now only in the part-change process. Social security is being abused, and it is known worldwide. About 1% of people using the system do not need it. These objects are therefore important to be monitored. On the other hand, I believe that in this country it is somewhat weak compared with other countries. Switzerland is, for example, with specific legislation and special monitoring partners that work only to eradicate reform fraud and the same in the United Kingdom. Mr. President. I think the bill is dealing with a common problem that doesn't make sense to be blurred. Let us not forget that the number of people in this article seemed to be great and is discussed. As a result, the whole system went on its side, and it is shown in the report that it appears to be a change again in that direction. That's a worry. If left unchecked, the number of people will be much higher in the future and will be completely beaten by the system. Let us not forget that the system is for those who need protection. We need to have such an organization in Iceland in this category that it is established and able to exist, that those who truly need protection will receive it and the help it brings.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u83	President. I'd like to ask the senator for a specific part, i.e. When it's about a child who's sure to be on the run. Consider, for example, a child who has received confirmation of the status of a fugitive in Greece, where we know the situation isn't a child's offer, and it gets here in Iceland. Is a senator aware of what changes are being made in this bill, leading to the trial of the children who are fleeing? Let's just start with if he's aware of it. I don't believe anything but that. A senator wants to take it into consideration, making sure that this bill does not pass through the council without a gold guarantee that we do not send children who are running to the sea and to God. Now I know what to do. A senator has professed to be a Christian. How does he see it in this matter, in this context, how should a Christian conduct himself when it comes to children who are truly fleeing?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's excellent inquiries. I learned in a talk earlier that this group of languages is naturally fragile and particularly when it comes to children. I'll agree with that. We can only see in our social discussion that when children are involved in a certain age, people expect them to receive fair and good treatment, and I support them with my whole mind. Hv. A senator specifically asked what a Christian's view of this is. Then all I want to do is quote the Bishop of Iceland who said that the children's issues should be specifically examined and, of course, supported. We need to take special care of that part of the matter, in my opinion. But I also remind you that it is very important that this established state, i.e. that people know what they're doing before they go for international protection, which can be very difficult, thirsty, etc. I also believe that it is our duty and the government to convey to them exactly what the rule of the law is because if we are going to make a special changes about it and provide, for example. A certain citizen's rights through the General Assembly, as we know was done, e.g. In Albania, a tsunami was followed by refugees. Thus, there must be a firm conviction in this category, and, as the Norwegian government did, it must be expressed in the world's affairs of order. But when it comes to children, I take my heart to it. Of course, a senator needs to be very careful when it comes to doing so and carefully reviewing the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u85	President. I would point out that as the law has been carried out, there are sources to provide special access to children, but the Foreign Institute has merely interpreted it differently, and these sources have not been used. It's good to go. A senator supports putting children first and granting special replacements. The United Nations Children's Convention on Child Rights, which is a law in Iceland, simply says in 1 mg. 3. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ What is best for a child must always be put in place when public or private social institutions, courts, governments, or legislators take steps that concern children. And in this category, of course, there are arrangements that concern children, the poorest children in the world, children to flee, children who are afraid, children who land, as well. A senator said, in abuse, the children who live in inhuman and horrible circumstances. So it's legal when we're working here on the laws about their interests that we put them first. How has this been carried out? It is also stated in these laws that the child should be looked at, and the position of the parents should not affect the child's rights. However, when decisions are made to dismiss people from the country, parents are expelled without taking sides with their children. Thereafter, a decision is made that the child should follow his parents because they are the best for the child. This is done instead of taking a stand on the parents from the child - what is best for the child - as the law dictates. So it is extremely important that those who do these matters at the council, and those who eventually have to vote with or against, be well inside it and put the child first, as sounds natural. A senator is interested in doing so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u86	Mr. President. I'll agree with that with what's happened. This aspect of the work of the Committee needs to be considered by a senator. I think it is also important that those who know the best of this class and cooperate with this sect, the Red Cross, as an example, but also the law, the border control, the Foreign Institute, because it is quite clear that these institutions are not working properly together. That's why I think it's very important to have these members before the committee. I have, for example. Talk especially with the border patrol or with the police about this party, and a lot of interesting reports have been made where I think it is very important that the committees know about it, and I encourage it to be done. Once again: This is a language group that is sensitive and especially, like a whale. A senator rightly mentioned, with children. There we must be careful and look at all views, and that is the role of the committee. Hopefully, there will be some reasonable conclusion in this regard. That's what I think it's supposed to be. They are naturally extremely important, blessed children, and are also under the hat that may not be able to express themselves precisely what they want, etc. Sometimes parents influence their children, whether they want to stay or want to stay at home or go, or whatever. These are all points of concern and must be considered accurately. It's my input into this counter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u87	President. I thank the Minister of Justice for being here for the discussion, I asked for it, I'm told she did it, she's been here all along, she says. [[Up front.]] I'd like to take this opportunity to ask the highest possible question. Minister of Justice how she gets it out of the rights of children, whether she thinks that the processing of the bill and its contributions at the General Assembly, is putting children's rights in first place, or will take a hint if it is not. In the 3rd. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is a law in Iceland, says by permission of presidents: ▪ What is best for a child must always be put in place when public or private social institutions, courts, governments, or legislators take steps that concern children. Now I've asked a former U.S. Marshal. Minister of Justice on this, I've asked Prime Minister, I've asked the Minister of Social Affairs who calls himself Minister of Child Affairs, but is really just Minister of Child Protection, because a lot of child rights are on the scene. Minister of Justice. I've gone out and south, I've talked to the President of Iceland, and I've asked him how he appreciated this position. There is a petition for a justice minister who should be working on, the rights of children, and where to find them. I made it available at the last assembly to prime minister, and there was an answer that should be directed to the minister of justice. You see, it's a little confused. But one thing is certain, and I'd like to ask if it's the highest. The Minister of Justice is in the same position, whether or not she should consider it to be the 1st paragraph 3. the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, that what is best for a child should always be first when various parties, including Governments and legislators make arrangements that concern children. Is that not true when foreigners are carried out as they are today or when a minister works as a bill to lay before the legislature and the legislature council is to follow it? I've done a considerable research now because I'm a spokesman for Pirata's members of Congress. All members of Congress have advocates of children, which means that we have promised to be guided by the rights of children in our work as members of Congress. When it comes to matters involving children, we draw attention to them. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is the spokesman for the Central Party, I think. This is at the scene of the Children's Department, UNICEF and Children's Agent in Iceland, this three organisations and government agencies have this task, encouraging members of Congress to commit themselves to guide their children's rights in their work. That's why I'm here. It is of utmost importance to get it straight from the Minister of Justice whether she does not consider herself bound by the law that what is best for a child should always be put first when governments and legislators make arrangements for children. Why do I mention this? The government, an Foreign Institute under the Minister of Justice, does not use the legal authority to give children special access to their handling of the other and this. The organization interprets it very narrowly. A minister could quite give a statement that it should not be interpreted narrowly, that should be interpreted widely. That's what a minister can direct to the Foreign Institute. When decisions are made by the Foreign Institute on whether to dismiss people from the country, I have learned that the first decision is to dismiss the parents from the country. So it is said: " The child belongs with his parents. ' As a result, it is for the best of a child to accompany his parents to the world whether they are in Greece or each. I've talked to many people about this, and children have ended up living in the woods in France, etc. with their parents. I specifically asked about it in the inquiry to the highest level. Whether she or the Ministry knows what will happen to these children after they are deported. They have no idea. They don't know what's going to happen to their children. They do not know whether the decision was made for the best of the child. It is therefore inappropriate to put what is best for a child at all times by putting parents away first and saying that it is a child's best to follow his parents instead of looking at the child first. It also says that your child's rights in Iceland are rights regardless of your parents'position, and your child's rights are still there. It has to start with the baby, I can't read it any other way. I've talked to UNICEF, I've talked to a child's emissary, and I want to know the highest level. Ministers feel the law of action they're doing today. Today, thinking about what is best for a child who is referred to to into the uncertainty, I don't talk about in that case when a child has received a fugitive's position, and we know that these are refugees and that they are to be referred to to into the hideous situation in Greece today. This is about the Minister of the Commission, regarding the rights of children, given to the Republic's president the authority to go with them by their signature. Of course, the Prime Minister agreed and then president of the Supreme Court. Minister, it's the president of Iceland who's signing for that authority, the execution. It says in the law that what is best for a child should always be first of all, including When governments and legislators take steps that concern children. This is the first question. The second question concerns the legislature board. Now a minister for the legislature board gives a bill that becomes legal, I actually don't think it's going to be a law, but here it is suggested that the bill become a law. When it comes to the legislation, it's the highest. Minister, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, as well. A senator who will likely be here to vote for the matter if it goes so far. As a senator, what do you think? A senator is bound as part of a legislature agency that is to abide by the child's rights law, which says that what is best for a child should always be first in the first place. legislators make arrangements that concern children? When it is truly a fugitive who comes to the country, will this bill for the protection of a fugitive give priority to its rights? UNICEF is absolutely clear that as soon as the child enters the border of Iceland, the child is covered by Icelandic law. Is that true of a minister and a senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions, which he addressed to me, is kind and obliged to answer them. There are many changes in the bill, including for stepchildren' family unity and for others who take care of all the details. But this is mainly the change on the protection issues in the bill. Of course, when the alien law was prepared, the matter of children's covenant was taken into consideration and is a guide to the treatment of non - Israelites and non - Israelites. If a child is protected rather than a parent, his family will have international protection. The child's status is always assessed. Children receive a documented decision in their case, according to incidents from both the Foreign Institute and the Exhibit Committee of Foreign Affairs, and in the act of the law, the importance of family unity is emphasized. In general, it has been suggested that the child's interests are best paid by maintaining family unity. Still, the children's covenant is guided by the trial. Of course, we also look to other countries that do this in terms of protection and are not quitting the reimbursement, including those in the United States. to Greece, which we made a decision on the basis of the Order of Dublin, where we are talking about people who have not made any protection or rights. This is in harmony with other countries, which, of course, are members of the United Nations Children's Convention. Then, in particular, the Ministry, and it was my initiative to perform a special escape report on the children's issues and also to examine the situation and service of the homeless children and young people who come here where we can do better already and have to do better if we are going to confess it and accept more. We cannot bind ourselves to such decisions unless we do so well, and that process, of course, is all about children and especially about the best of children. [[The president calls.]] But I may not find out any more in my previous answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u89	President. V.E.G. According to one minister, the United Nations Children's Covenant was a guide to the treaties of foreigners. Yet, I do know that the procedure has been made so that the child's rights have not been put in first place. As the Minister of Justice says, it sounds much better than I just know, I've studied the case, I've already spoken to the members of the Children's Health Department in Iceland, and the situation isn't like that. The child's attitude is not taken, and even when court cases are to do so, neither is it. The child's own rights are not taken, what is best for a child. It's at every level of power here in Iceland. That is why it is especially important to have clear answers. But if I keep out of the question myself. I'm asking if a minister doesn't appreciate it as if following the foreign law and supervision and handling of the lawsuits established by the President of Iceland to have authority over the nation's authority, it is under the order of law to have 1 mg. Section 3. the rules of the child's rights to take into account: ▪ What is best for a child must always be put in place when public or private social institutions, courts, governments, or legislators take steps that concern children. Does it not consider itself to be a minister bound by this law when it comes to the implementation of foreigners? Does she not believe that when changing foreigners, they should be guided by this view, even as a senator who has legal authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u90	A respectable president. Of course, this article harmonizes with the rest of the children's covenant. It is clear that if a child does not meet the criteria for international protection in this country and if his child's interests are not put at risk by following his parents or parents back to his own country or the country where the family has protection, then the child's right is specifically checked whether the conditions are met and the child's interests are not compromised. This is how it should be done. And this is how foreigners can easily be read on how the project should be carried out and what the law says on how to view the child's status. But as a result of a lot of discussion on these matters, we are working a report that has come a long way, on the children's escape issues, which, as a whole, are being looked at both the subjects of the children who come here with protection and not with protection and those who have no escorts because we have to examine our system as a whole, where we can do better. And that's why I put this bill forward, where there are all kinds of needed changes, not only international commitments, as to Schengen, which are timed and available, but also other changes to try to speed up the treatment in which children are not protected. It is also irresponsible to have as much government as it is seen and how long children are receiving a final result in their more often positive cases, since they are fleeing persecution or dangerous situations in their own country. That's where we'll have to do better, and we'll be able to respond faster. But then we must speed up the issues that are largely negative in our system today. It is my sincere resolve with this bill to succeed with the heavy administration, as we see at Foreign Institute, that we have up to 4 billion in the media today of 220 million years ago. We have about 1,000 applicants, and we have to master the category to provide people with security and answers until now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u91	Mr. President. In this discussion, some excellent talks have been offered, and I have no intention of repeating what has been presented there, so if I can avoid it. I'm on a universal and educational committee where this case will come to a lesser end, and at that job I intend to take a special look at the comments of a person I believe have special expertise in this case, i.e. The Red Cross and the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees If there is something that is called left on the people today, apart from the fact that knowledge is guided by the battle against the virus, it is that governments now put aside traditional disagreements. All hands on one thing, gather together, members of the administration and government opposition, and the government has agreed with the government, which in its own way helps. This is a rich demand for the national situation. It's been going up and down, sometimes up and sometimes down. However, it is particularly surprising in view of this requirement that the government is now in the form of an amazing obsession with this very matter of which there has been no peace, there is no peace, there is no peace, and there is no peace. It stands to drive it through the old way, so strongly, it is counted by this government, led by the left green, to narrow the possibility of the needy finders who come here to land to establish themselves. In this bill, such people are always being attributed to unfounded applications, as if their request for shelter in this country was some kind of attempt to waste valuable time with important people. Mr. President. The report on this bill gives 17 efficiency. Today, efficiency may be beneficial and even necessary to complete an issue and with a more successful outcome, but efficiency must not be a fanciful symbol of lack of humanity. Look, efficiency only works when it compares with humanity. It can never be a goal in itself. For example, perhaps absurd, it is not possible to find someone in distress, and you may be there in five minutes at someone's meeting, refusing to help her by saying that efficiency does not permit anything to be done. No, sorry, efficiency doesn't allow me to help you. I'm waiting for the highest. President Puzzle in the language: In the bill's work of efficiency, its author is so infatuated with this word that you think you understand it even in a literal sense, it's an activity to return people to their place of origin. But, Mr. President, that place does not exist by accident or by any means, but it does come to its place. They are in a sanctuary, in a place where they have the potential to build up life. They will not be returned where they first learned land from their flight under unbearable circumstances, for there also lay ahead of them a situation that could not be found. A respectable president. Humanity and efficiency are not opposites but are essential to each other. Humanity must provide the basis for the efficiency that needs to be followed again. The lack of humanity may have been too much for the media after the recent years. We have all these news reports that regularly come from families that may be useful at work and that everyone likes them. The children are in school, even for a long time, as there are some who need a special shelter, and it is necessary to dismiss these families from the country. Then there are reports, pictures of these people coming in in the press, interviews, and the public being raised in defense of these families. The common people see themselves in the possible circumstances of these people. What if our home were to be torn up by roots, and we were to flee? Wouldn't we be able to expect human kindness somewhere? In this way, people think and fail to protect the families in the country. More often than not, people are spared. In the last hour a letter comes, and a knight on a horse comes with a letter releasing it from this departure. The people continue to use citizens in the community and are determined to succeed in a new society, a new life, a new opportunity for themselves and theirs. We know some of these stories. What do they show? They're humane. And, yes, they show efficiency, efficient humanity, humanitarian efficiency. They do not show the special mechanical efficiency applied by this bill on the computer that should always be said no. In fact, the bill seems intended to respond to this apparent humanity, perhaps on the grounds that it is unfair to all others when only a few receive special treatment, there must be consistentness, something that is inconceivable, and even inhuman. But instead of seeking to correct this house of righteousness, increasing the possibility of a righteous and fair saying, it is done that way. They seek to shut down the possibility of a fair and just trial so that all will live under the same injustice, no matter what happens to them. The Cypress says there's one thing going on. This approach to the government to the affairs of foreigners can never be satisfied. I am convinced, Mr. President, that a good society is not based on people's background, skin color, or other characteristics that they cannot do in themselves. I don't think it matters whether people originate in Huna Lakes, Bombay or Gilleje, or the Langholt Road, or Kuala Lumpur, or whether people have the other and those eating habits, but the other or these holidays, or they dress somehow, or they believe in these gods or other people or no one. A good society is built on being within the reach of others. It is forbearance, and perhaps a suitable proportion of well - meaning interest and apathy in other people's ways and interests, certain congregations. But above all, a good society is founded on unflinching respect for democracy, liberty, and human rights, including the individual rights of all, not only those who behave well or seem to deserve such things, but also for those who are tiresome and boring and who favor ridiculous ideas, even those who favor ideas contrary to the open democratic society that we want to protect, as long as they maintain that conflict in an acceptable way. I think a good society is set up on an equation, not on its own, not on its own, but on the size of a population, not on a conversation. I also think that a good society is based on a steady renewal of cultures and intellectuals, and I think that this was from the beginning of Iceland when all kinds of people gathered here were gathered, from a variety of cultures and directions that gradually formed a community. Each child born here as a result of meeting people of different backgrounds increased the variety of human life and the adaptability of the nation to the dissension of nature. I myself am a descendant of newcomers here, who in the 19th century brought a child with two hands empty, and who would enrich the nation's life, especially because he would so much as want to prove that he probably lived here, no matter what he said, he could be as successful as anyone else. Icelandic society needs hard work. Despite temporary unemployment, a large number of structures need to be built, and workers need to be employed in many ways. We've chosen a way of temporarily granting a temporary work permit, often through the labour services or professional drivers, but for some reason we've been less accused of having families here that can take root here. As a result, immigrants may not always have been able to form the biological ties to the society that is so urgent and necessary for us. I think a good society is based on strong values that I think have not been guided sufficiently by this bill. Humanity and righteousness should never be an exception or a reward for fine conduct, nor should they be absent from their territory. Humanity should be a basic rule in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u92	A respectable president. There are a number of things. A senator came in. Well, maybe just a little bit about why this bill is here now like so many others who were ready for Covid time. There are, however, more changes in that than the only one. In his entire speech, a senator spoke about. There's a lot of changes in our international commitment to Schengen and we're in a time crisis, and I just wanted to blow it off because of it. A senator sits at ease. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. Then there are changes such as increased employment permits for specialists who lose their jobs and then can get more time here, increase employment permits for those who receive humanitarian protection and increased residence permits for those who are here on enforcing, au-pas and other things, which I think would be very expensive to provide. Hv. A senator spoke about efficiency, and I had become quite afraid that we would disagree about it, but then he said that humanity and efficiency are not opposite. It is where I wholeheartedly agree. Senator. The efficiency is not merely in negative issues that do not lead to international protection but are now priorities in the activities of the Foreign Institute and lead to a positive outcome in only 4◯17 days. That's fine. That means people who come here can get positive results very quickly. In 2019 an 531 individual was given international protection, and no other individual has ever been protected in this country. They also have the right to an accelerated court treatment in order to have a better chance of entering more quickly into society and in security. Then I was very happy to hear the final part of my talk. A senator of hard work. It's a pleasure to hear it because I'm very interested in whether the employment permits can't be checked, which will certainly be under the social and child - care minister, and whether they come here, whether they have protection in another state or since the Third Reich, and are interested in working, should not have a richer right to do so instead of coming into our reservations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask if we were. A senator does not agree on such changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u93	The president would like to state that he appreciates your apology. The senator in his speech earlier, but the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u94	A respectable president. I made only a remark to that this case was run a little forward, I felt, and made to the government's priority. I feel that there is a bit of confusion in times when there is a call for cooperation and solidarity and opposition when it is known that this case is so disputed that it is, in fact, being discussed here at a council hall, has testified. V.E.G. A minister said that people can get positive results very quickly by a priority system, but it seems that the goal is that people can also get negative results very quickly; people can be expelled without adequate attention. That's what worries you, and it's that kind of efficiency, so I'll still come to the word I'm afraid of, i.e. unmannerly, inhuman efficiency, which will handle matters just quickly with reference to laws without being examined with sufficient reasonableness by the individual situation. I'm not going, despite the request. A minister there, about to convert the system to the Icelandic labour market and how people are allowed here. It's a bigger case than that, to be ruled here in five, four, three, two seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u95	A respectable president. I'm not asking why. A senator is going to be ensuing the job market, but he is just wondering if we don't have to look at it when, as he said, by himself, in more blossoms, to provide more people than what is within the EEA's work permit. This presents an enormous opportunity for people who may have a fugitive's position elsewhere in Europe but who want to improve their standard of living and should probably be received. Otherwise, I'd like to set aside the issues that came in and were ready for Covid, not specifically priorities, but the priorities that remained and were not ready for the government. Then I would like to mention that it is wrong for a matter to be considered. In any case, as so far as there is going to be an interview, the data can be submitted and the review of whether reimbursement conflicts with 42rd. An alien resident based on Article 3. The European Convention of Human Rights, and if so, physical treatment is given. These issues have grown tremendously in the system, and the management department has become so heavy that I think we must agree that they have humanity and efficiency together, being able to give an answer sooner, whether it's positive or negative. It is humanity that people may not live insecurity for long and then be able to have effective social adjustments. Of course, a number of positive comments last year also make it necessary for us to follow along, make sure that the school system accepts them well, that they have the same opportunities here, etc. We have legislation in harmony with local laws, including those of our neighbors. In terms of protection, and I reiterate what I once said about the opinion of protection, despite the changes presented here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u96	A respectable president. Yes, it is possible that the Icelandic labour market is fully shut up for the people who are looking for work and you have at times felt that people have come here for a job search, perhaps because of the job drivers, the people who hire people for work. But then it is also to think that it is very important for people who come to work here to be protected, that they are all on the surface, that there is no violation of the rights of people who can be in danger if these things go under the radar. As for applications and their releases, it's certainly right by the highest level. Ministers that when people receive this permission, it is humane and good. Of course, there is reason to rejoice. But I reiterate on the issues we know and have come up and have sometimes led to the conclusion that people have been given a living permit, because public opinion has cut down, that such cases are likely to not be made comparable in the future because of a rapid and efficient payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u97	A respectable president. V.E.G. Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir published an article this afternoon on International Developments, let's translate it, entitled Progresive International. She writes an article entitled "The Time for Our New International Time for the New International Time, " or" The Time for a New International Is Today. " I'm going to try to do my best to quote this article in the open matter, but it's important that I draw this article to the highest degree. Prime Minister into this discussion because I do not understand the attitude manifested there by the same person who gave this bill a way through the government. In the article published today, a bill is presented that is designed to facilitate all reimburses, says the highest. Prime Minister, in my loose translation, that the battle against the crown virus must not separate from international and local struggles against social inequities. It also involves fighting against efforts to bring social risks to more vulnerable countries by moving vulnerable groups there. At the end of his article, he writes the highest. Prime Minister that in the time of an emergency, there is an enormous need to stand together in the international context and to cooperate with the prowess across the border and the political and political right forces focused on using this crisis to push forward their long - term desire and vision. It calls for the unity of politicians around the world and for a new future. I wondered what world vision is behind the plan to facilitate the resurgence of refugees in those times back to Greece, Italy, because they have been protected there, although we know that these countries have no control over accepting these delicate groups. How do these two things go together, what's the same person who supports this bill at the highest level? Minister of Justice out of the government into this hall with some undefined warning about I don't know what, there has not been an answer to it, and calling for international solidarity, to work against social inequities, to ensure that rich and more permanent countries such as Iceland are not moving vulnerable groups to more vulnerable states in the south. That's exactly what it says to do with this bill. I have not heard Prime Minister explain how she can on one side call for international solidarity, and on the other side, this delicate group pushed out of the table completely and across more vulnerable countries like Greece, like Italy, like a prophet who already carry all too heavy loads when it comes to the protection of refugees. It's a big international community here. A respectable president. I thought I had 10 minutes for a second speech. I was clearly miscalculationed, so I won't have a chance to get everything that I wanted. I still want to read from the review of the Red Cross in 30 seconds, with the permission of a president: ▪... the Red Cross considers it a crying paradox and in no way defender on the part of the government to eliminate the obligation of the government at 2 mg. 36 st. alienations in case according to a-age 1.mg. 36 st. foreigner, i.e. when the candidate has been given international protection in another state. [...] [[The president calls.]] So lay down the Red Cross completely against Article 11. bill of this [...] I'll agree with that. It's incomprehensible, Mr. President, that this case is coming through right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u98	Mr. President. It is not pleasant to come up here in a chair to discuss this bill to legalize the laws of foreigners and the legal rights of foreigners for international protection, evasion and residence and work permit. Yes, there may be some aspects of the bill that are improving, but unfortunately they are completely overshadowed by the damage contained by the bill. We're here on the bill of foreigners, which at this time is proposed by the third Minister of Justice of this government, the Supreme Court. Minister of Alaugur Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir. For the time being, Sigríður Á. Andersen and Reykfjörð Kolbrún, daughter of Gylfadóttir, who once served the office of Minister of Justice in the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, had presented similar cases, either here at a council or in a judicial hearing, yet the current Minister of Justice of the Government, was able to further the masqueradment. These are the priorities of the government at Covid time. The left movement, which, as we have seen, identified itself with humanitarian and humanitarian policies, took care of this matter in advance from the council; whatever that means. A number of cases have crossed out of the Independence Party and mainly the issues that have come from the highest level. Environment Ministers, such as the highland park and a number of other cases. The left movement estimated that this issue can be covered here, which clearly impairs the very rights of the people who come here for protection. First, I'd like to say the last word at the top. Minister of Justice, which I have heard here more than once and more than twice in this room, that resurgence to Greece does not occur: this is wrong, Mr. President, and I hope that someone at the Ministry. Let the minister of justice now go once and for all, teaching her that it is dishonest to insist that the return of people to Greece does not occur because it is false. It is dishonest, and with its words it is the highest. Minister of deception. I'm going to allow myself, Mr. President, to read from the website of the Foreign Institute. It shows that reimbursement on the basis of the Order of Dublin has been terminated in 2010, but the Dysyncording work does not cover application for the protection of individuals who have already received international protection in another state. The returns of those who come here and apply for protection - I'm going to repeat this because I saw that the Minister of Justice was in the process here somewhere outside: The recoverys of those who come here and apply for protection after receiving international protection in Greece have not been terminated. They haven't been done yet. Everyone who's been in this sector knows. To argue that there is no reimbursement to Greece is thus false. I can't take it if you're at the top. The Minister of Justice says that both in the media and repeatedly here at the Hall of Congress, these reimbursements were terminated when it knows, or at least at the time of its return. To know that it is wrong. People are sent to Greece. People who are protected are sent to Greece, people with no protection. People who don't have shelter, don't have jobs, don't schools for their children, not adequate health care, not food or any shelter, are sent from the rich Iceland government to Greece to overcrowded refugee camps. That's the way it is. But now we're dealing with the highest bill. Minister of Justice. As a matter of discussion: It is worth pointing out that the bill refers to consultations with Iceland's Red Cross, which has since 2014 permanently taken care of interest measures for individuals in search of protection in this country. It is therefore impossible to say that when it is established that such consultations did not occur, they agree fully with such an important organization. If so, it might seem that Iceland's Red Cross did not have to send in 19 pp. subheading the bill into the consultation port. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ It is proper to state that on February 20, our last meeting of discussions is conducted. it was noted that the bill would be published in the government's consultations later that day. Thus, the bill had not been presented in any other way, and no consultation has been made with the Society on its subject. Does the Red Cross count it right to keep it in place for reasons, since the Society has some comments to the unique articles of the bill, as the following article will follow, which the Society has not been given an earlier opportunity to speak to governments and to promote. It happens again, the highest. Justice minister guilty of dishonesty and that in the law text, in a paper with the bill. Naturally, the Red Cross makes this statement in its review so that it is not made responsible to governments for this bill, which in its reality damages such the right people in distress. Key comments to this new bill can be made at the highest level. Ministers of Justice depend on how people seeking protection, who have obtained the status of refugees in another state, and who have been given so - called protection, are completely removed from all rights. It is under intensive action against this group that, if the bill is approved by the members of the council at the council, has little or no right to protest, charges, or attempt to submit evidence to support it. Let's be clear that people don't play with coming all the way here to Iceland, have been protected in a secure state, even with their children, without good reason. The constantly saying that we have to protect our country from the ever - increasing numbers of people who become unnecessaryally involved with their children is still another attempt to deceive people who listen to them. People are not on the run with their children, Mr. President. No parent would be walking around the world with an unnecessary child, seeking protection, knowing nothing about what is going to happen. We must not forget that a so - called secure state can be considered secure for those living there, but it certainly is not a secure kingdom for those who need to live in a refugee camp. Those who have experienced asylums in Greece, Bulgaria, and Hungary have no protection. There is no shelter, no housing, no forwards, no food, no medical services, and anything that you need to do with your life. There's no protection in there. And these people are going to send the government out to God for nothing because the Icelandic government, the Icelandic government, the staff of the Foreign Institutes, the members of the Committee of Foreign Affairs, may not consider whether these individuals are in a more sensitive position. We have to tailor our rules to the real world. Getting protection in Sweden or Norway can in most cases be all right. In most cases, it may mean that a family has a protection and a ministry so that children do not suffer want. Such situations are not readily available in Hungary, Bulgaria, or Greece. In the bill at the highest. The legal rights minister to whom we are considering is made up of the fundamental change in Icelandic law, or an attempt to make that governments will no longer be allowed - they are taking out a warrant - evaluating whether persons who have been protected internationally in other countries have such a special relationship with Iceland that they are next to international protection or if such a person is in need because of a disease, an accident, or whatever the individual may be in need of the right to be protected here, not to continue sending the individual. In other words, this change leads to the highest. The Minister of Justice is in the shelter of efficiency to provide for the council, so that without thought, a very sensitive person can be sent to a state that cannot provide protection for these people. Some of them have no interest in doing so, nor do their governments. Then you wonder: Is it true that governments are not interested in providing protection for people in need? Is that how it is? There are many other factors to consider, e.g. is getting very tight about applicants being able to deliver their data. After a person has been informed in an interview that his application will not be taken for the material treatment, the applicant will no longer be allowed to refer to his spokesman, who will determine whether to press charges, but will begin the hearing immediately. It's 14 days in total. The applicant has 14 days to study the decision of the Icelandic government, which is always published in Icelandic, and the applicant can hardly read many pages of the legal language. He has to do it first. It may also be necessary for the individual to collect information from abroad or from other countries and if the person is not able to produce a complete report in 14 days, according to this new bill, the charges are dropped. In that case, the person accepted the decision made by the Icelandic government to reject the need for protection. In neighboring lands, because of the highest. The Minister of Justice pointed out that we should do this as only if we were to do so. is done in Sweden and Norway, this delay is 21 days. It is more natural to do so because, according to the UN refugee contract, governments have the obligation to provide humanitarian treatment to their candidates and allow them to provide evidence to support their case. The number of candidates who have been protected in another country has certainly increased, and this increased in recent years. The vast majority of applications were from the population of Iraq, Afghanistan, and Somalia, where it is clear that there is no protection, including these refugees. Of these 180, 60 are children. After today, if the bill is performed, you must never, in the highest estimate. Ministers of Justice, determine if these 60 children need protection because they have protection in a refugee camp in the world. The Red Cross in Iceland has strongly opposed the law of this bill. I want to be here at the end, because my time has come, and I had to run a lot over a talk that I had written, reading down the articles of Kristín Hjálmtýsdóttir, director of the Red Cross that she published at the Science Today. She says, with President's permission: The cross in Iceland believes that the tolerated change involves a significant deterioration and a degree of justice to vulnerable individuals who are looking for international protection in the European countries where the conditions of the approved refugees are disturbed. If the Red Cross opposes the controversial change, it will lead to action on the part of the Icelandic government, which violates humanitarian views. I recommend to the highest level. For a moment, the Minister of Justice will consider whether it will help the Icelandic government to do something that is contrary to humanitarian views. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u99	A respectable president. I don't know where to start, but I'm going to start by saying that I find it a little awkward. A senator here says that I need to go to my ministry to learn what foreign law is, and that I blame myself for lying about our system. I've always been talking about Dublin, answering questions about Dublin, or repeated discussion about where we're sending back when I mention that we don't send people back to Greece and Hungary from 2010 on the basis of the Order of Dublin, and that's clear. If ever I haven't been clear enough, and hadn't. A senator specifically refers to it, then it is absolutely clear, and I say it once again, that in 2010 we stopped sending people back, on the basis of the Daffron Rule, to a refugee camp where people don't have protection, to Greece and Hungary. So that's the word. That's also wrong. A senator's decision here is to send people back with no thought because the matter of protection will have an individual opinion on the basis of the fact that people receive an interview, can provide evidence and get an opinion, and will determine whether a matter violates Article 42. the alien donor based on Article 3. European Convention of Human Rights. Relatively most applications are here compared to the North countries, and international protection was given to 531 persons last year. So it is difficult to do so. A senator trying to say so, calling it to the highest level. Minister of Justice, that there is no interest in doing well in this legal group. That is exactly what interest and change are. A senator spoke mainly of on the bill. Made up a Norwegian role model. I see my time is over, but I repeat it, as I've said so many times before, that we don't send people back to Greece on the basis of the Cysician Party, those who've requested protection and not received it, we haven't. The status and rights of children who are not escorted have a special opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u100	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. It is most undisputed to try to make it appear here and in the media that we do not restore people to Greece when it is clear that we are doing so. It's an illusion. We are sending children and adults to Greece, people who have been given so - called protection. V.E.G. The minister of justice is well aware of the situation there and in Bulgaria and Hungary. Living in a refugee camp there is no protection. Although it may be that a fugitive's position has been established, and it is considered that the individual has been protected, this is not a protection. The bill prevents an independent examination of this particular group as a protection issue. It may well be at the top. The Minister of Justice sees this as an irreparable discussion. It'll just have to be. It's not just numbers on paper, it's the highest. Minister, these are people who come here and spend their lives on it. Nobody's playing with it. We have to stop handling these matters like there's an excel document, that it's all about reducing the bad stuff, the tricky things. It's not about that, it's about providing protection for people who need protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u101	A respectable president. The metal party is about people. That's why he's sensitive, and that's why he's big and remarkable too. We need to take good care of the whole group because it is about people and can be very sensitive. And how do we do that? We do this not only by looking at an excel file but by realizing how we can speed things up so that people get better answers, whether they are positive or negative, so that they can live less uncertain and speed up the rapid and effective adjustments in this country get international protection. It is important that we get some objective discussion about this group of subjects. I said it would be indistinguishable to send a minister the tone that she had to let someone blame her. That's what I said was indiscriminate. We're here with a big group of paintings that cost 4 billion. I want to make good use of that money for people who really need protection. Despite these changes, I reiterate that there are always material treatments to be taken care of. If people are at risk of becoming inhuman or disrespectful treatments because they are protected, the matter can be taken into account for the physical treatment. I've never intended to fool people, about the way our system is, but I'm trying to talk about it out of reason and rationality so that people can figure out exactly how our system is, how it works, and what sort of classes we're talking about. Sometimes it is completely incomprehensible for ordinary people to understand what our system is like, but on that point I am trying to shed light. We have one system that should serve well those who need real protection and who are fleeing an inhuman situation, and we must do better. It has become too heavy for the management board, and the answers are very late.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u102	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I also believe in a highly efficient administration. I'd like for us to see it more widely, e.g. in other institutions at the highest level. Ministers, such as the Sólveigur in the capital area where children will be allowed to wait for months for their decision to become involved in socializing, but at the highest level. Ministers have spoken about it before. The quality of efficiency is good. It is humane to practice efficiency in any part of the system, but unfortunately, there is no key to humane conclusions or human treatment, just not at all. Focusing on the word 'perceptive measures' can lead to occasional issues that require careful study of what is taking place, a loss of ability, and a loss of humanity. This may mean that individuals behind the numbers are not given the necessary protection. The bill allows the person to refuse protection in this country and first interview material treatment, to report the first interview: No, we believe your application is non-fiction because your report is absurd. Then, in the last ten seconds, I'm going to tell you that when I worked in the past as a spokesman for international protection, I often heard absurd stories of the day. [[The president calls.]] I didn't believe in my own ears and eyes, that people had survived such a faraway life in their own country or in their escape. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It was absurd, but it was the truth, their life, and sometimes people never wait for benefits. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to meditate on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u103	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u104	A respectable president. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice has repeatedly stated in the discussion on this matter that candidates for international protection are not and will not be sent to countries like Greece and Hungary on the basis of the Order of Dublin. People who flee their homeland and then first come to Hungary or first to Greece, but later to Iceland without officially getting the status of refugees, have not received the status of refugees, are not sent back. V.E.G. A minister of justice often goes on to say that this was not done for ten years. But why do we see in the news so often that refugees are exactly sent to Greece? This is because refugees who have been recognized as refugees have been recognized as refugees and have been protected in the country, such as. Greece or Hungary, has been sent back. It will be done on an increasing scale if this bill is legal. This is because the bill shows that regardless of the pathetic circumstances, refugees who have received international protection are not included among those who are in real need. These are refugees, and these are people who are facing reimbursement to these countries, and this is going to increase. They are people who have come to recognize their status as refugees in our countries who are afraid to send people to them. The bill cannot be understood differently, so The National Institute of Iceland and the D.A. will have little authority to appreciate these applications as being the bill of law. It is true that the evidence is not entirely closed, but the outcome is certain. Of course, not everyone can come to this country, and Iceland can't stand alone on this watch. But there must be some responsibility. It needs to be prioritised. But the danger signal in this bill is where this line is drawn, how violently few will be counted to the group that can bring protection here, and thus may be more efficient for people to be sent just fast and safely back to Greece. The interview, the extension, and the rest of the data, at the highest level. In the discussion again, a minister of justice will not change that conclusion in any of the main points. It is good to hear that a minister of justice brings up the need to consider employment rights, whether it might be an introduction. It would certainly be a good thing to do so, if that too was open, but considering the importance of a minister, I hope that the government will go in and look at it. No such thing is offered at the same time as the bill on these people. It says that we're narrowing people's chances to come here. That's what a professional agrees with, e.g. The Red Cross experts who know this party, work in it every day, and have expertise in it. They're very worried, we only heard on the evening news. A lawyer in the Red Cross believes that there is a great setback, a specialist in the painting class. These professionals agree with us in our government opposition that it is inevitable that people in sensitive positions will be sent to these countries that we do not want to send people to. And if this isn't the real goal of the bill, it should be the highest. Minister of Justice also worried. That's the interpretation. This is the understanding of experts and those who work in this sector, and I agree with that interpretation. If the focus is to be placed on those in need of real protection, then the conference experts are that this will be the result, other than the highest aims. Minister of Justice. I wondered, then, if there is a justice minister who would be there for an interview to take a closer look at this if this is not the goal, because the rating given by the bill is that there is a significant deterioration of the rights of vulnerable individuals who are looking for international protection in the countries we've been discussing here tonight. The seminar, yes, it will certainly be efficient, yes, it will certainly be transparent and yes, it will certainly be simple. The answer will be no and it will take a short time. But I also worry that I think the politics behind this bill are the same, efficient, transparent, and simple thing to say about what the real goal is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u105	A respectable president. I'd like to come in with a few things a little bit. A senator came in. Hv. A senator here says that with this bill, people are increasingly being sent back. The vast majority of these cases have negative results today, over 80% that I think, and the goal is to speed up the issues that get negative conclusions in order to also speed up the issues that get positive results and wait too long in the system. Here we just have a system, and we just need to find, like, a what. A senator rightly says where the line is drawn. We're not getting any extra money on the system, as the situation is now. How, though, will we do better for the people who are coming here, and how will we respond sooner to those who waited for months for international protection? It is also true that no European country is returning a protection case to Greece. No European country has made such a decision. Of course, we've made a big decision on the matter specifically, since we wanted to do particularly well, and we also have a set time frame and a set frame in our legislation that many other countries don't have. These issues are timeless, and we find a certain time inhumane if we have not answered, and we have agreed on that. However, here, the majority of applications for international protection are in the Northern countries. The change as a dog. A senator only spoke about in his speech, which is just one of the principles in this bill that now contains much more, is in the north, especially Norway, but similar environments we can see everywhere else on this protection in Europe. However, the matter has come to be a conquistancy treatment, and it is of course for the case to be examined, and the committee will conclude the matter with some adjustments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it's not in my hands anymore. I bring it to the Congress and hope that this therapy will be good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u106	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice answers. I hear it points out, and has done it before, to what the situation is today and Iceland is already rejecting many of these individuals. It may be a little illuminating for this party that occasionally happens that in the media, individuals who have generally caused great anger in the public and lack of understanding come up with stories. It has not been the long treatment period that people have felt the most because we know in Iceland in a variety of institutions that there is a long period of treatment, and there is not an independent basis for rejecting projects. The examples we know from the media would not lead to a positive decision today, but the discussion has blessed some time later changed those answers. So the minister refers to the sending of other countries to Greece in this way, and I understand the word. A minister in such a way that she finds that an acceptable conclusion. It may be helpful to get that point out in this discussion whether it is at the top. The Minister of Justice says it's an acceptable politics on behalf of the Icelandic government to send these people to the international protection, for example. in Greece again. I'd also like to know if there's a single feeling about the government policy and if behind it, all three members of the government are involved because there's some political news in that if it's not disputed in Iceland's government to send people there in that way, and even more, from what has been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u107	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator, who has at times developed important stories that show us what can be done better in our system. This bill contains a set of laws that have been changed, e.g. By Regulation, including about a shorter period of treatment for children to make, and that is exactly what such stories have at times helped us to see how the system should be and how we want to see it. In a similar way, of course, we need to let one thing pass over everyone and have equal expression in our system, and I hope it will. A senator agrees that we do not make any special decisions, for the Minister of Justice does not have such authority today. We come to the Foreign Affairs Committee in order to review every case, but because of the discussion that has come up with extraordinary issues, I have a report on the children's issues of flight at the Ministry, which runs across every child, wherever they come, in any category we define them. But because of him. A senator in particular asks if I think it's a natural conclusion, a natural way, I think that the Europeans must stick a little together to these changes, how we're going to look at the whole thing, and we haven't seen a lot of results in the recent, not perhaps cohesion in Europe, to some change, but some. And that's where I think people have to stick together. We are seeing that most European countries, if not all of Europe, send back a protection issue against Greece. Yet, like any other country, we do have this arrangement of 42. a foreigner, a physical protection case can be taken if the situation is inhuman or demeaning and there is always a possibility, and I reiterate it here. Of course, our primary will is to do well in this category, to provide protection, to provide it well, and to do well for those who receive international protection, but also to give an early answer so that they are less likely to live in uncertainty, and to adapt to society sooner. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-11-101.u108	A respectable president. I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. It caught my attention that she answered no question of solidarity within the government regarding these resurgences of refugees to Greece. I feel that in itself, there can be a certain answer to the highest degree. One minister did not trust to declare that the matter and methodology and the alien politics that appear in the bill is unique and mutual. I've marked it too, and I've noticed that many references are made to 42. It would be interesting then to know, too, because I think I know the answer, how often it's agreed in the context of the matter of protection, and how practical this article has to do with the issues we're dealing with on the bill. I think it would be a lot normal for us to talk about this sort of thing, that it would simply be on tables where the goal is and what to do, because if that is the case, and I'm not going to draw the top words. A minister doubt that the goal is to reach those in real need, then this bill is a big concern because it will not be the result, if the bill is accepted in this way.
