ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u1	Borist has received a letter from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gritary minister asking for a written answer. 903, about the motivation for agriculture and fishing and biodiversity from Una Hildardóttir. A letter has also been received from financial and economic secretary where request is made in order to give a written answer to a letter on the cover. 922 on the income of state funds from prescription-based prescription sales, from Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u2	President. Today our health systems are burning fires in many places. The problem is in no way minimized in many places, though it is claimed that conditions at the emergency hospital are at the critical point that it will simply no longer be a source of pleasure. This situation is not surprising. Sadly, we live with governments that have thus been involved in our public health care that most of the business plans of an individual person within the system are involved. We live in governments that place themselves in the service, innovation, and management of funds below the limits of the health professions that want to use their knowledge and energy to enhance their variety and innovation. During the days of the press reports of a service survey conducted by Iceland's Medical Insurance centres in the capital area at the end of the year. It is noteworthy that these findings were not presented as soon as they were available because they showed positive news about trust in health care and satisfaction in the ministry. But there was something else in the survey, something that is certainly not in the sails of the policy of government. A private health care center with its 55,000 clients was, see, uncomfortable. The survey held a thin silence until the media became available. In recent years, all medical facilities in the capital area have been financed by the same system, i.e. in word but not on table. The fact is, the health authorities have shown considerable initiative in providing funding for the system in the state - of - the - state charges. The SEC has directed recommendations for improvement to health care ministers without any response. The watchful eye of the government's domains makes sure that there will be no remedy. But global interest would be better paid by government eyes and attention on other aspects of the medical system. The public interest would be better paid for by a government that would be more involved in lighting fires than in setting them on fire.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u3	A respectable president. How appropriate it is to continue the path I would have taken to warn of the spread of the so - called crown virus, which has been fighting high in 40 countries! The last thing we're learning is that Tenrife has been diagnosed with infection. There are 1,000 people in solitary confinement in a hotel, some seven of whom are known as Icelanders. There's a police guard standing by the hotel to keep people from going out there or getting in there. At lunchtime, the news reports that chaos is at the Tenerie airport, where people are trying to get out of there. But the government, as well as the Center for Disease Control, presents the same news and does not consider a reason to warn us not to go to Teneriefe. A respectable president. I can't figure out how to sleep. It's totally beyond me. This is especially a reminder of the history that we can read about the Spanish flu when it was taken to death with the calamities then experienced. And why should we not take things seriously? Why should we listen to those who speak of the fact that warnings and procrastination are simply a cause for alarm? I'm talking about serious death, about a virus that is really unknown and that doesn't have any, not in the history. We know her pregnancy is not under two weeks. We can walk for two weeks with this virus without knowing that we're infected, without having any idea of anything or anything, and without knowing we're going to walk with it, and we're going to pass through it with anyone we're going to see in Costco, and we're not going to have any idea of anything, and we're going to have to walk with it, and we're going to have anyone we're going to do with, whether it's in Costco, in Bous on Fridays or IKEA, or anywhere else. This is a serious matter, and I think it's a carefree government that's not going to take it seriously. We're leaving two planes today to Teneriefe. We just got two planes from Teneriefe today. We have to do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u4	Mr. President. Iceland's development contributions are still under international guidelines and under our international commitments. It's well-known, and it's been discussed here many times. Last week, I traveled to Uganda with several other Norwegian members, where we were studying only what our developing cohesion money is about to do. We examined the whole circle of the health system where we started at a supply station where vaccines are stored against both common diseases that should be vaccinated against, even in this country, and completely down to, e.g. Vaccine against Ebola. We visited a hospital funded up to 11 million. K. A year in which 14 midwives serve in the maternity ward, with fewer than 5,000 born each year, of which 30% are the emperor's section. We also examined the two - side development team of Iceland in the area where we have been working in the Kaangala region and then in the Buikwe region, and we may be about to start a job in the Namayingo region. It contains water e-mails and schools, cooking facilities, and so forth. I just wanted to come here and say that it is important that we continue this good work and work harder, both by funding to Gavi and Global Fund, but also by our two - side cooperation, by raising our contributions to development cooperation in accordance with international commitments. But at the same time, it is unacceptable that we have only on a very small scale sought out free trade agreements with these developing countries. It is well - known that free business can make good fortune, and the poorest countries in the world do not bring much happiness. Here is a chance for us to do better in a simple way, and I would like to encourage it to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u5	Mr. President. I'd love to use these two minutes to describe the government and maybe ask the highest government. Whether the government has done anything or gone on a long winter holiday and forgotten to notify the council. That was a fairly prominent criticism of the government before the year - to - year election for the small number of cases and the lateness of their actions. So much was the criticism that the government adopted, and in January and February, it revised its Constitution, as it was both a delay in the timing of the case and a significant decrease in the progress of the 48 issues proposed by the government in January and February five, just over 10%. That's why I think there's a reason to ask, Is this government retired or should we wait? Apparently she's not at work because at least she didn't have anything to do with the matters she announced to come before the council. It seems that once again, the plan is that we will probably get these issues, which, fortunately, are far fewer than the government planned, late and direct in a discussion of a financial program that is beyond the corner. At the same time that there are no government issues, we are increasing the number of committee days. I'm asking you why? It is hardly the intention of the majority of the council to allow it against all the members of Congress that have held up the council here all winter. In fact, there would be a joyful change if that were the case. But I don't expect that to happen. The government won't even answer the queries that are addressed to it, it'll take hours. In fact, my simple inquiry, which is now two months old, is about the number of speeches and committees established by the government during this terms, still to be counted, and I wait. In fact, this number is full, but two months of counting is quite rife.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u6	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss something that isn't often discussed in this room: Birds. I don't mean the weirdos that often find their way into this council. But it may come as a surprise to people that one of Iceland's most Icelandic birds, so to speak, the raven, is on a list. Our Krummi is on the same list as the string and the falcon. In spite of this, some 3,000 ravens have been killed in this country each year, 3,000 of them. Although Iceland's Natural Science Institute repeatedly asked many environmental Ministers that the raven will be protected, the raven is still one of four birds that can be caught throughout the year according to the EEA's website. Mr. President. Wraths are composed of Icelandic history and nature. Krummi doesn't belong on a starlist or hunting list. Therefore, I would like to call for the position of the current environmental minister to hunt this majestic bird and other birds on a defined star list, but the raven is not the only bird on both sides of the disaster and the government's hunting list. Mr. President. This same environmental minister authorized last week fishing on over 1,300 reindeer, one of the few national mammals living here. Then there are some 6,000 Icelandic polarists, who are actually the only real settlers in Iceland, killed here every year. And now there is a request by the government to allow fishing for a species of seals that is literally in grave danger of extinction. Mr. President. Environmental protection should not be merely a matter of protecting mud and rocks. Environmental protection is also a matter of protecting Iceland's infinite wildlife.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u7	Mr. President. I like what you're doing. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is advertising here for Iceland's government and asking, "Is it over? I'd like to present some numbers of the Generals' webs. This 150th legislature has adopted 35 Participants, 33 members of a committee, and one is waiting. Two members of Congress have been approved, one have been canceled, 82 are on committee and 11 are waiting. 16 Parliamentary decrees have been adopted, three are referred to, and 11 of the 19 are foreign ministers' cases. Six Parliamentary decrees from members of the Parliament have been adopted, two leaks, 71 committees, and 27 members waiting. 70% of the terms presented at the 150th legislature are from members of the Parliament. Congress has held up the program for this assembly, and the presentation is clear. Let us just take an example of this meeting because this part of the program is completed on the program one form of directorship. Then there will be three votes, one from the Parliaments of the Economic and Business Committee and two from the Parliaments of the Western Council, and then there will be eight other members of Congress. Then, according to a Congress report, 65 cases from the government are to be brought to the council in March. There's a lot of big stuff in there. It's going to be a real mess in the last few days if the government is going to put these things through. I don't think, Mr President, the treatment of Congress is unacceptable, and the treatment does not increase the effectiveness of the council or respect or the trust of the Council, as it is specifically mentioned in the government's declaration of policy. Some members of the committee have dropped a committee meeting rather than set up members of Congress. Yet, there are more than 2/3 of the matters presented during this council. This must be changed, Mr. President. This isn't how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u8	Mr. President. How tempting it is to get involved in a raven's speech! paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafurs the Ólafur of Ágústsson, but I believe it is right to respond to comments. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný Harðardóttir Daughter and the other part of it. paritaprevir Here at this time, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was about a number of prime officials and a number of council members who have been treated in the council. Then, in general, the amount is not the same as the quality and scale of success and the quality of the Senate work does not necessarily include a number of approved cases, nor does it include a number of contributions. Both topography and Senate matters need careful and thorough coverage at all levels of the matter, and I think that it might often be remembered that the council could often be viewed more frequently than by a number of cases or such standards. This is the general view I would like to express on this subject. The government is not the best one that brings most of the bills and does most of the work. That's not necessarily the case. However, it is important that the issues are progress and benefits, and hopefully they will continue in this government so that their actions will be successful, not on the scale, but on the quality of it. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u9	A respectable president. Big discussion. But in unsubstantiated requests last week, I asked the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs for a decision not to pay all interest due to a retrospective decrease in pension, as did a court case member. The answer was like the usual way out of the way. I asked if a budget decision on the case was made at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but a minister answered, with the permission of a president, that when people are demanding the state, it will collect, and they cannot afford to pay legitimate demands for the state's affairs. A respectable president. However, it remains that the weight - growing interest paid to a painter in a judicial case on the grounds of retrospective impairment was not paid to all who were also affected. It is predictable that any who have experienced a retrospective decrease will receive this weight - bearing interest if they sue the State for them. On the other hand, someone made the decision to pay the interest just for the subjects and not all the others. Someone made a decision not to obtain a financial warrant. As a result, there will be more judicial hearings at the expense of judicial costs and, in the end, some of the money that the State needs to pay for the conditional growth despite all, and likely, more money will be paid because of the increase in cost and effort. This simple question, who made the decision, was not answered by a minister of finance. The question of whether the decision had been made in the Ministry of finance was answered by an outback. If the answer had been no, the decision wasn't made at the Ministry of finance, I think the answer would have been from a minister just no, instead of turning out. Reverentially, those who know will answer the blame that will cost their money even more government money. That's why I'm asking again, as I asked in the inquiry the other day, "Why does the Independence Party always wear public funds so badly?"
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u10	Mr. President. In a last year's construction agency requested that the job committee study coastal fishing and see how the changes in fishing were made after the changes were made in fixed days. We received a presentation this morning on a job board, even though it was not fully completed and was very happy to have it covered, based on the ongoing study, much of the people involved have already made it, these changes are a source of great joy. Men they believe that coastal fishing is of great importance to their annual income, and it is of great importance for many to deny that coastal fishing is to be compared to other fishing in the local community. For many communities, their presence is crucial. Fear was greatest at these changes in the northeast and Eastern Europe, but it is good to know that they still have a good 50% chance of change. There is also the fear that this pot would not exist, but he certainly did. It is reported that what they may have wanted to do is speed up the beginning of coastal fishing, and it may also be delayed to one end by which parts of the country are involved and that more days can be chosen each month within the 12 - day system than it is possible today. I believe we on a job committee should take a good look at this and maybe make some adjustments to these proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u11	A respectable president. The crown virus rages on the world with its own deaths, and if the virus comes here, the emergency hospital will be in trouble. It has been pointed to the hospital's offenders, pointing to improvements, but real improvements have not worked. The crisis at the hospital emergency room and the crisis of the entire hospital would have been fixed. The need was often needed, but immediate action now is vital. I hope the crown virus doesn't come, but if and when it comes, we won't be able to say, "Guð will help us. " The responsibility is great. Now it's time for advisers to come out of their holes, take whatever precautions are required, not just one container and microsurgery. This virus is worst for sick people, older people, people with underlying diseases, e.g. lung problems. February 28th, the dedication of a new 99 - room nursing home on Plain Road was a remarkable house that probably, as far as I can get next, was built in a much less expensive way than any other house. This 99 space will now have to be used to clear out the emergency room so that the emergency room will be ready to deal with the problems ahead. If we don't, we're putting our heads in the sand. We must and should believe that the tolerated virus is coming. An extremely bad virus disease has been reported, which has caused people to be very bad in the lungs not for a week, not for two or three weeks, but months, starting with the inability to breathe. For my part, I say, "Who says the virus isn't here yet? ' A sample was taken here in the past, before there were no methods to detect the virus. It's only a little more than a month since we had it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u12	Mr. President. Today is 25 February 2020. Ever since the government took control, our good health - care staff have sent a distress call to the government to bring the health system to the rescue, to assist its employees in caring for the sick, young and elderly, to finance our collective health systems so that patients can be safe. At the beginning of the year, everyone saw the need to respond without delay. The pressures at the emergency unit are described as a medical emergency by the governor of the United States Hospital. The words "fooling dissster" were in place. Hospital doctors say the daily crisis and the head of infectious diseases are afraid of disaster in emergency departments; they will not respond immediately. The government responded by appointing a team to discuss the situation, but only in the emergency room but not in the health - care system that is, of course, the problem. It has been inefficient and thus targeted undernourished for the past few years. But no, the government only wanted to check the situation at the emergency room and get that report. The campaign team worked fast and hard, returning a report last week. But the staff can't hear anything. Still, they run and run night and night to try to rescue patients, but they don't get answers. No messages, not anything from the government, just the silence, except that they are asked not to talk about the problem, because this makes it a special challenge for the highest level. Health Minister to host a hospital. Mr. President. Is it hope that you will ask yourself whether the government is the project, or the government, or the government's? Too much? Is the government so unconcerned that it cannot agree on necessary emergency measures to save our health system?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u13	Mr. President. Parliamentaries have been told about the procedure of the Generals and the remnant of the administrations. The head of the Independence Party here spoke of quality that differs from quality. He's absolutely right. It would also be nice if the government had a little editor when the quality comes, e.g. ... intheexplanatoryle of Parliamentary Constitutions. If only a violation of the matter is to be submitted, it does not show good quality control. I think they could start cutting down their own file. Regarding the members of Congress that have been given in this regard, it is also good to consider that Congress cases are also issues from members of the council. The pride of half the senators is a prime complaint from the Generals, so I thought it was a bit of a problem. The head of the House of Independence may weigh some of the individual members of Congress on that subject. However, the rest of the matter is concerns and concerns that local council officials are recommended here for war and disturbance, and they are sent to committees, and they are sent out for comment. As an example, in the General and Education Committee, there are now 38 cases that have been sent out to review and to review, from 130 days to 99 days, if we take ten of the cases that are the oldest. There has been no point in the fact that these issues are to be handled on the committee program. It is a huge waste of the Generals' time to be measuring all these matters just to leave them on committees and do nothing about them there. This is particularly bloody at the time, since governments themselves cannot support the council's activities by themselves but rely on filling in the Senate program. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's a big and powerful reason to reconsider this work ethic so that neither the time of the Generals is wasted nor those who honor us by sending careful comments, that it's just to throw away the trash bin. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u14	A respectable president. At this morning's employment committee meeting, Margeirsson, former director of Matis, introduced his ideas about microspheres and the opportunities there, both for sheep farmers and consumers. A lot of things came up there, a lot of good points. The richness of the Icelandic lamb has been unconvinced, and taking advantage of the products of the lamb, we use our resources as a nation and resources of the land, and we do not have to transfer food to the fire. But it's a fact that we're losing the quality of lamb by new means of slaughter. The reduction in farms has resulted in a longer distance of sheep leading to increased stress hormones in the meat, as well as in larger slaughterhouses, calling for more meat to pass through the process. In this way, the method and crafts and the traditions that returned the most valuable of the meat have been lost, which was to leave the meat to the ears and hang for slaughter before going to frost. Great interest is among farmers in putting business on homemade products. By means of this system, they could multiply the value of their production and offer more quality to consumers. The purpose of food law is to ensure, where possible, the quality, safety, and loyalty of food, that meaning and other information about it are correct and satisfying. This should be achieved by internal monitoring, risk analysis, traceability of product products and precautions, for example. A respectable president. By paying for the building of microspheres and building them up, we are by no means compromising the purpose of the food laws. The knowledge gained by Icelandic farmers and the safe surveillance of consumer food can ensure consumer food security. Even modern technology can be monitored, such as electronic surveillance. Already, farmers have a strict report of their animals from birth to slaughter, so there is a good database for each lamb from start to finish. So we can keep doing this even if we do not have to make much changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u15	Mr. President. Prime Minister recently stated that it would be wise to start the sales of Iceland banking and use the benefits of investments. The bank's operating environment is changing rapidly. In today's economic climate, it is the opinion of those who best know that now is not a good time to sell banks. Iceland's own budget was at the age of 177.6 billion. However, the price expected for the bank is at 0.7, meaning that for every 1,000 bucks. which the bank owns at 700 bucks. So the dealer, the government fund, would get 70% of his money for the bank. Thus, a government fund would not have 177 billion for the bank, but 124 billion would. So the bank's money did not depend on its value as it would cost 53 billion dollars. lower. Of course, that's sad. There won't be any buyer's queue unless the price is low. This means, in effect, that it would be better for the owner to pay off his own money. That would give him 100% of that. But the bank will certainly not be laid in one green condition. It would take years. For state funds, it is in fact more beneficial to turn down your own money on interest than to sell the bank under taxed prices. Thus, the quickest and most reasonable way to make money is by paying off all the money he can buy. This can be done by reorganizing the bank's balance account and changing the composition of its own money, using the opportunities of the owner, the state fund, to maximise the profits without selling the bank. These opportunities are not to be given to the bank buyers. Also, it is wise for a government fund to sell assets from the bank, thus getting money into the infrastructure. These include the company of Allianz, owned by Iceland Bank, a well - run and valuable property. Mr. President. Iceland Bank is not supposed to be selling at dinner.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to make up a subject here for an extremely serious incident that took place in Hamburg, Kópavogi on Monday night last week. There, a group of teenage players, aged 15◯18, were passed on to a 14 - year - old boy. The attack was extremely arterial, brutal, and gross, and the boy was punched and thrown into the body and in the head. The boy who was attacked was taken to the emergency room and has been in a great shock after the attack, and he was afraid to leave the house. There are a number of things that make a man anxious about this event, perhaps especially how serious and gross the attack was on the part of very young boys. What causes great anxiety is that the boy was younger than all the attackers and is of foreign origin. As a community, we have to take this brutal attack on a foreign boy very seriously. The school authorities, the child - welfare authorities now working on the case, the police, and all of us need to take firm measures to make a very clear message that such violence will never be tolerated. This particular matter must be addressed in order to prevent such a recurrence, for such horrible incidents can, in fact, begin to be a systematic foreign hatred, which is rendered in an unmanly and inhuman way. Such hatred can be life - threatening, as we saw here on the East Coast in the summer of 2018. I wondered if the police authorities think they have to do better in their order of work to be in the best position to handle such attacks because if it is true of the boy's father who he has told in the media, the police did not believe him first and claimed that his own son was the source of the attack, they must immediately explain it to the local police. As soon as I sent the boy and his family some recovery and support, I'd like to repeat the words of Vanda Sigurgeirsdóttir, lektor í tómstunda og social félagsmálafræði við the menntavísindasvið Háskóli Ísland, which had this to say in the media about this crucial attack and about why no one who witnessed the attack of the group intervened to stop the violence used by the boy, by permission of the President: Because of harassment, the audience rarely intervenes, so we need to change. [...] [[The president calls.]] As a community, we need to interfere more often. Of course, in such large matters, but also in smaller matters. [...] It's so important to stop this hill that's inside of us when it comes to dividing us and getting that bone in your nose that you need in big and small cases. [[The president calls.]] I encourage all concerned people who are working on this matter and sending a very clear message. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u17	Mr. President. It is clear that we need to extend the deadline to undergo the technological changes that came with the consumer loan law, and that's what we're doing. What we have not had enough time to discuss within the committee and that we would have needed more time in are definitions, e.g. on electronic identification and valid electronic signature. The adjustment proposal you set before the program is designed to explain what is meant by the song that would make such a sound if we agreed to a change of motion from what was right. The members of the Council of Brysli Haraldsdóttir and Smári Mccarthyr, and then the motions I am in and out of. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy: The loan agreements shall be written and signed by the consumer. If a loan deal is made in a remote sale, it should be signed by a consumer with a valid electronic signature or approved by a consumer who has been classified electronically to the lender's business system. That's where we want to go. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy adds: With an electronic authentication method that has a high level of confidence. The identity of the identity has been determined. Of course, we know that consumer loan laws do reach the banks, but they also include small loan companies. We need to make sure that all shareholders make sure that their signature becomes electronically certain. It's not enough just to look at the banks in this regard, we have to watch the small loan companies, and if we don't figure this out, I think we're a little bit of giving them free cards, that it's just some kind of ID they define themselves. On the other hand, we want to keep the level of assurances in a way that I'm asking you to check in the later vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u18	A respectable president. It may be that a world of Congress has become a bit disoriented or confused about what we are doing at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee when it comes to this great bill on consumer loans, sometimes called the "Multiment" bill. I'm a carrier with a bang. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy on a change proposal to the bill from us on the Economic and Business Committee. It was essentially just an electronic signature, or word, of the word "empty. " We may have been affected to some extent by the fact that the change referred to in terms of a radioactive signature, not a valid electronic signature, which is a legal definition of what is involved. I suggest that we accept that change and refer to the phrase: valid electronic signatures. The motion of change. Harðardóttir With reference to the fact that there is also another method of identifying that has the firmness of an electronic identification and trust for an electronic trade, this is the case with the firmness of the firmness of the case. It's a new proposal that just came into existence today. We've certainly discussed this in the Committee, but it has to be acknowledged that at least I appreciate it. So that we may not fully understand the impact this may have on us. We received comments from the financial firms Association, as well as the bodies of financing companies from our bill in December. where the banks had a view that the actions we were asking for were by making a requirement for valid electronic signatures cost considerable money and time. That's why the big thing here is that we're postponing the shoot to June 1, but it's a question of whether it's exactly what we were wondering when we were talking about this. We were primarily wondering that people could not borrow in the name of others from small loan companies, but we know that all of our banks are extremely prominent in electronic services. The problem is not there, so I don't see why there is even more burdensome demands, for of course, electronic services primarily involve simplifying our lives as consumers and individuals, but do not interfere with them. According to that, I can agree with many of the things. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir said earlier. Nevertheless, I now resist their advances but suggest that we do what is right. A financial and business committee is still on the subject, finding out more about these authentications and assurance levels that I think are high, medium and something we changed about Christmas. So I suggest we accept the bill as it comes from who. The Economic and Business Committee, however, has an electronic signature, but then continue to use the time to review these authentications to make sure that we can handle the problems we plan to attack, not be too burdensome for other agents working on this market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u19	Mr. President. I was only going to add what has happened to someone else. People who are absolutely right. It's getting complicated, it's just one of those places where technology runs into society at high speed, and I have complete sympathy for all who have trouble following. The first adjustment proposal we make I think is indecision, i.e. What are we doing here? paritaprevir The comics of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who is merely about adding the word: more valid. The second suggestion is that the ◯or team involved in this bill will not be used as an escape route in the case of small loan companies to avoid some normal recognition of the identification of those who receive such loans and so on. This expression becomes based on conversations with several experts and turns on trying to do things exactly the way the banks are doing them, that once people have been enrolled through ways approved into an electronic business system, they can do things naturally. This should not be burdensome for banks. The second suggestion, I think, is good. I agree with what. Haraldsdóttir That, of course, we should continue to work this case and make sure that it is shut down for all problems, but in any case, we are putting forward this later adjustment proposal now in order to try to make all of this work. This is complicated, unfortunately, and, of course, would have been better if we had more time to work this thing. In any case, I think these two adjustments are enough to cover everything, and then hopefully we can take a closer test with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u20	A respectable president. I recommend shortly before the Commission's Commission's committee's article on the synonym's proposal for the Western environmental prize of the ocean. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Guðnsson, president of Iceland's Western Council, and Árnadóttir Bylgja, secretary of Iceland. The proposal challenges the government to explore the possibility of bringing up the Western environmental guards of the ocean into cooperation with the national administrations of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. The proposal is presented on the basis of the conclusions made by the Western Council No. 2,2019 adopted at the annual meeting of the Council on 23 October 2019 in Nuuk. An essay with the proposal includes a series of articles. Until the formation of the Western environmental prize of the sea would bring to the attention of international society on the importance of the sea for future generations and the inhabited earth. The awards would be given for special initiatives and work to provide the marine environment or sustainable use of resources. The prize would be given to pioneers, organizations, companies, rurals, governments, institutions or individuals, whether in Western or outside. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and Resa Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjolflfóttir were away at the hearing of the case. Bryndís Haraldsdóttir was away from the case, but he signed this opinion under a warrant at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen Sigríður Á. Andersen, Logi Einarsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdot, Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, Bryndís Sigri Guðmundsson and I, Bártísdóttir Haraldsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u21	A respectable president. I'd like to suggest a few words for the reason that the Foreign Affairs Committee has discussed this proposal from the Western Council on the Western Environmental Prize. I thank the Committee's positive coverage and quick treatment, short but meaningful committee opinion and excellent transport of it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We all know the challenges of this world as a result of climate change and pollution. More and more people, organizations, businesses, and communities are aware of the threat, that it is real and serious, that it is not an option to sit close by. Pollution in the sea and its acidification are the thoughts that terrify many. Biodiversity is thus threatened too. More and more intensifies the application, develop sustainable energy, and find sustainable solutions to food production by all means available. The UN's global aim for sustainable development has put these issues first. It was a pleasure to participate in a meeting on Friday with a young United States Association. There they offered an open conversation with Western youths regarding the future of biological diversity and ecosystems. It has to be said that when young people keep the signal so clear and well up and enlightened, it fills you with optimism. There was a conversation with young people with professionals and experts. They did well with people, and it is clear that those soon taking over realize that they must respond. This event was not a single event; it was one of the others in a youth labs throughout the North States on biodiversity and ecosystems in a discussion of a new UN Convention on this issue in October. These demands, ideas, and results of young people's work groups are expected to be accepted into young people's demand and will be submitted to these negotiations. This is a very important thing. We realize that interest in North Atlantic and North seas is growing more and more. The superpowers seem to compete for the impacts in the region and the forces in the natural resources found in the northern regions. We know the competition for the control of natural resources on land, but ocean resources will play a key role in future international politics. In the Western countries, there's a considerable awareness of ocean-related interests. The Human Resource Council at Atta on the West Coast of Greenland obtained, for example. The North Council's environmental prize in 2018 gives evidence of this awakening in Greenland. The Natural Resource Council of Atta won this award for initiatives and hard work to document marine information and for suggestions on how to manage marine areas. The Human Resource Council, set up by the people themselves, the grass source, is also the source of social and scientific empathy, public and management. They have already produced similar assignments, including some of them. in Finland and Russia, and have all the opportunities to spread to many more countries in sea and land, in the north and outside, for the benefit of nature and environment. It is essential to protect national rights for the sustainable use of ocean resources. Effective methods, research, and exponents need to be used. A discussion of the peace of large areas in the North needs to include information on responsible fishing management and responsible employment. Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland should therefore work hard to shape a global discussion of these matters. This proposal for the Western environmental prize of the ocean, which hopefully Generalis's decision is directed to the government, i.e. that the Western government is working to make this prize and this recognition a reality. This, of course, is a declaration to the international community about our thinking and policy. They would be given to pioneers, organizations, companies, rurals, governments, institutions or individuals, whether in Western or outside. We have hoped that an international prize of this kind would call attention to the importance of the ocean's resources that may not be restored if we treat it badly. We need to be careful that we should return this resource as well as others to future generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u22	A respectable president. I give a commission from the State Department for a proposal for a resolution on the subsidies of young air travel between Western countries. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Guðnsson, president of Iceland's Western Council, and Árnadóttir Bylgja, secretary of Iceland. The proposal allows the government to determine whether an agreement can be made with the Faeroe Islands and Greenland for subsidies of young flights between the three countries. The proposal is presented on the basis of the conclusions made by the Western Council No. 1,2019 adopted at the annual meeting of the Council on 23 October 2019 in Nuuk. An essay with the proposal includes a series of articles. so that airports between Western countries are very high, and only a small number of young people in the three countries thus have the opportunity to travel to their neighboring countries to study their culture. To ensure continued good Westtoretic cooperation in common interests, it is necessary to make it possible for Western youths to get to know their neighboring countries, their culture, and their inhabitants. It is therefore suggested that governments consider whether airlines could improve the potential losses that could be achieved by bringing in Western juvenile expenses. Otherwise, a Western state could set up a fund that gave young people the strength to travel to other Western countries. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Logi Einarsson, Sigríður Á. Andersen, the one standing here and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. Hv. Councilmen Sigríður Á. Andersen and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir written in advance, while Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolf's daughter were absent at the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u23	A respectable president. I'm willing to thank you. A short and meaningful member of the Committee of Foreign Affairs, also for completing a discussion on this subject so quickly and in a positive way. We know that since the earliest centuries, there have been some communication and travel between Greenland, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, considerable traffic of people and passengers in their various means of transportation. In modern times, people around the world have not been so discouraged. In just a few hours, we can cross the entire inhabited earth, as we know. Although Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland once belonged to the same kingdom, communication between countries has not increased. They have grown, but not as expected, with neighbors, increased tourism, and large - scale travel in general. There is concern that only a small number of young people in the three countries have had the opportunity to travel to these neighboring countries to study their culture. This is primarily due to costly reasons. These are our closest neighbors, Greenland and Faeroe Islands, but this is still the most important reason. To ensure continued good cooperation between countries for common interests, it is necessary to make it possible for Western youths to get to know their neighboring countries, their culture, and their inhabitants. This is our opinion in the Western Council, but the airport between the Western countries and within them are quite high. This is especially true today of Greenland. It's different with Faeroe Islands. As it is now, youths in Western countries have the opportunity to apply for strength to travel by sports associates, schools, or cultural groups. In this context, it is worthy of referring to the Greenland Fund and NATA, but youths traveling on their own roads cannot apply for strength. In fact, tourism is rapidly developing in all of these countries. We know the developments here. In the Faeroe Islands, everything's already on the move. In each area, vast numbers of tourists are returning to their homes, and in this area the Faeroes are dealing with evolution and this increase in a very interesting and noteworthy way, quite different from those of Iceland. Airplane is increasing and at least Two large hotels are in a building in Thors Harbor in the Faeroe Islands. Greenlanders, on the other hand, are in a different position. Where there is no road system, airports are the most important factor in Greenland's future movements. The airport in Kangerlassaq is the only one in Greenland for large jets, but it has the great disadvantage to be away from urban areas. The project is to begin immediately in the fall at two large, new international airports, and construction is in Nuuk and Ilulissat. Both airports should be ready by the end of 2023. The aircraft - making industry estimated to be $67 billion - is described as the largest infrastructure in the history of Greenland. The airport industry is thought to be a prerequisite for major tourism in the country, but Greenland's policy is fast paced. They are also planning to develop the domestic flight, building up 11 new national airports, both East and West. Mr. President. Greenlanders have declared that they are going to march into a greater route of tourism, provide additional support for their job life, and strengthen transport in neighboring countries. In addition, major sea transport plans, including road transport programmes, are available. magazines with the arrival of Icelandic seamsmates. An improved port position in Nuuk also provides a high potential for locals to accept cruise ships. In this suggestion, a respectable president, the Toysian youth in the Western region is growing, leading to greater mutual interest and knowledge, and personal introductions by young people of our neighboring countries and neighbors. The distribution in the proposal and its channel have not been carefully developed. It can be in various ways, but the suggestion is directed to the government, and it is now being given as much attention as it is given here at the Testimony Convention and in Inatsart, Greenland. Hopefully, this will be done in as positive a way as it is here and that we will achieve the goal of promoting Witness relations in the Western nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u24	Mr. President. I recommend here for bill on deck. 985, bill to legalize the law of law No. 40/2013, about renewable fuels in transport. The main subject of the bill is the implementation of the Council Directive and the Council No. 2015/1513, for the change in fuel quality directive 98/70/EC and for the change in Directive 2009/28/EC on increasing energy use from renewable energy sources, while the second directive was implemented by the transport law of renewable fuels. 40/2013 and Regulation No. 870/2013 on collection of data and production, import, storage and sale of fuels and monitoring of energy share of renewable fuels in total domestic transport. One of the main objectives of Directive 2015/1513 is to reduce exposure to plants used previously for food production, and food generation is reimbursed areas leading to the potential for forestification or deforestation of heavy carbon-seatures. Thus this indirect change in land use can result in more greenhouse gas emissions being increased by energy crops. To counteract this trend, efforts are being made to further contribute to the use of developed waste and run - out fuel instead of energy plants. Such fuels greatly reduce greenhouse gas emissions with a low risk of causing indirect changes in land use and are not directly competing with agricultural feed and food markets. The main subject of the bill focuses on the following three points: First, on which renewable fuel may be counted twice. Two. Section 3. track No. 40/2013 reports that renewable fuels derived from organic or non-organic wastes that cannot be used for human consumption or that animal feed can be counted twice the same amount of other renewable fuels to meet the conditions of 1 mg. Section 3. The law. These conditions depend on ensuring that at least 5% of total energy levels for transport are renewable fuels per year. It is suggested that 2 mg be canceled. Section 3. The law and the Minister prefer to implement the Regulation which types of renewable fuels can be counted twice the same amount of other renewable fuels to meet the requirements of 1.mg. Section 3. In this Regulation there will be a list of the fuels that can be counted as double in fulfillment of the conditions of the law. That list will be consistent with the new XI. Directive 2009/28, which is included in the implementation of Directive 2015/151. The reason for this change is that it is deemed necessary to clearly define which fuel species are considered to be worth twice as much in contribution to the law's objectives. In view of technological development, over the past few years a wide range of renewable fuels has been introduced into a market that is useful for more vehicles and that is to be taken into account by the lawgiver. Second, a cut-off of fuel would be required to specify the site of sale if the share of renewable fuel is more than 10%. Here is a suggestion to cancel the requirements mentioned in 5 mg. Section 3. The law says that if the share of renewable fuel is more than 10% of the volume of fuel mixture, it should be clearly specified at the site of sale. This is consistent with the depletion of the corresponding directive (s) in 2009/28 with the implementation of Directive 2015/151. For general information on the price and fuel markings at the sale site, see section 7. Directive 2014/94/EU on building up of primary intensification for non-standard fuels intended to be implemented through changes to consumers' rules No. 385/2007, on road fuel prices supported by law No. 57/2005, commercial and post-marketing surveillance. Third, regarding the deadline for sales and the Power Agency for reporting: This is a suggestion to allow the deadline for selling fuel to make the Power Institute explain the quantity and proportion of all the renewable fuels they sell to land on the emanac winters will be extended by about a month. It'll be two months in place of the same. The reason for this is that experience with the previous few years is that time periods are too short and so data are not always available when they have been called up. So the change is for sales brokers. At the same time, it is suggested that the time period for the Energy Agency to provide a complete supply of fuel will be correspondingly extended by one month. If the bill is legal, it is not expected to have a significant impact on employment, government, or financial impact on financial funds. Perhaps the bill will require more waste-derived foreign fuels to be used to promote new production, e.g. Microscopic development. V.E.G. President. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. The pro board and the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u25	A respectable president. It's not a big deal here, but I couldn't help noticing what I notice sometimes when we talk about the EEA, though it's a great deal. I don't know about 2. But it does not come for any good reason in the sense of being positive. But they are understandable and are not in themselves to examine. It just takes time to do things and probably give the time needed. For Article 1. This is not a big change, but it is available to fulfill the Directive No. 2009/28, and 47 pp. and includes, like other directives, a fairly large demand laid on the Icelandic state, some of which are binding. Once again, I see that we are here at the great General Assembly to present a matter of great controversy. It is not apparent that anyone comes up here in a pit and screams at the land, or that our resources are being sold out of the country, to a similar amount of crap. For good reason, that is the case. This is because from the European Union and through the EEA community, there are a number of very good directives and good regulations that certainly bind us to do the good things contained in that directive and directive. As I say, it's not a big bill on its own, but its context is enormous and including the directive itself and, in fact, all of that for the command and regulations, I'll let me say, in terms of energy and climate. A respectable president. I can't resist reading from around here. the directive because I find it interesting for the entire EEA discussion, especially with energy. It says, by permission of the President: This directive establishes a common framework for increasing energy use from renewable energy sources. It provides binding national targets for the share of energy from renewable energy sources in total energy consumption and the share of transport energy from renewable energy sources. It requires rules on statistical transport between Member States, joint tasks between Member States and third countries, responsibilities of origin, administration, information and training and access to the electrical distribution system when energy comes from renewable energy sources. It is based on the sustainability criteria for biofuels and liquid biofuels. A respectable president. It's a very good law. It's binding and it's a common frame. Of course, I'm here to mention this in a certain context. That's the wording that's been going on here in Iceland, which everyone seems to have forgotten about right now, about the third energy package and all the energy issues, climate and EU issues, but it's all about that. Although the bill is not subject to such factors, if you plan to examine these regulations and regulations in a material way that we are making laws, the context is overwhelming and will scream at your face. Today's climate challenge is political. These are technical challenges, economic challenges, and educational challenges are increasing. But the challenge that will determine whether or not we will succeed as a species to overcome the threat to be faced, at least so that we may escape with a sliding out of this century at least, is political. It is political for the reason that we see political leaders all over the world, which, fortunately, only the smaller parts here in Iceland at the moment, and part of the smaller to a better degree, pretend that climate change is not really a major threat or that it's not quite clear that they're caused by man or that there should be nothing to freak out over this; let's just breathe it slowly and take the things at ease. It's a speech that always goes up, but at some point, the tiger is screaming in the face, and then it's not time to relax and think it through. Then you do your best to survive. At some point, we will be exposed to the climate. Now it is no doubt a very complex question to find out exactly when that time period will arrive. But we have a bit of data on it, we have a lot of discussions about it, and a lot of scientific research on it, an international form of people of all kinds, of all kinds of genders, of all kinds of religions, from all kinds of parts of the country, from all kinds of countries with a wide variety of visions of life and existence, conservative and liberal, all between that and neither. The conclusion of the scientific work of all these different people with different interests is this: The climate is overwhelming, it is here today, and we must make radical and massive and unprecedented changes in our whole society to keep it within the limits we might find reasonable. That's no small thing. A respectable president. Now is not necessarily a reason to change the expression that it is best to freak out and get a nervous breakdown, but we should take it seriously. There, Iceland's energy issues enter in two ways, at least. It is, on the one hand, our cooperation with energy in general, which, of course, is the focus of what was discussed in the so-called third energy package. A third energy pack today is a bit of a touch, mainly about competitiveness, consumer protection, transparency, and something like that, of course, but it always gets in the discussion of the blessed sea cable, i.e. They said they were planning somewhere to put a cable to Europe. That discussion most often reminds us of a discussion of conscious treason. It may not be a good idea, but in fact, I believe myself that at this point it is not a good idea to put a cable to Europe to connect the energy market. I don't think today it is in harmony with Iceland's economic interests and is not quickly asked for at least, after the opinion I took with the discussion of the third energy package, that it has a significant impact on climate issues. But these are things that matter, these are things that can change. We should be able to discuss such matters objectively without freaking out and without having to have a nervous breakdown over the delivery of resources, agriculture, or profit or anything else that people resort to in the discussion at any given time. The cooperation of the countries in the climate is of utmost importance in achieving these goals. The cable should, of course, be part of that conversation. Of course, it should not be necessary to argue that it should be part of the conversation. Not necessarily, the conclusion is that it is wise to place a cable that is previously identified. But there is another aspect of Icelandic energy, and that's how well we have to do. Icelanders are used to hearing the lean repeated income that we have such a clean country, and we are so awesome, so pure energy and amazing energy that we don't have to do anything about it. In some respects it is true, but it depends on how it is measured, on whether the flight is taken, and on the other hand. But the world's political challenge remains: The fact that we are not with governments in the United States or China or in Russia or Brazil that show the problem of understanding that is needed for us to deal with it. This means that it is not enough for us to keep our international commitments. We're not gonna do that. We cannot afford to accept the view that as long as we stand at the Paris convention and the Kyoto Protocol, and other goals we set for ourselves, we are in good business, we are returning ours and the rest are on the responsibility of others, because the rest are not carrying their responsibility. It's just the political reality today. I'm not a optimistic man, but I don't see much evidence that the current president of the United States will be elected out in the coming election there. Furthermore, statistical evidence of people's attitude in Iceland does not indicate that understanding climates is increasing, on the contrary. It is increasing in those who feel that they have not received adequate information that climate change is overwhelming, will cause major damage, is already causing damage, and that it is caused by man, and that we need to act very rapidly and firmly to cope with further disasters. It's a very serious situation, a respectable president, and like not new, that people don't agree on what's true. The amazing fables of religion should show us conclusively that people can be convinced of the most amazing things and absolutely without all facts and completely contrary to what they perceive themselves. There I am not criticizing one religion more than another. I just point out that people in general are not particularly good at telling truth from nonstops, have never been and are not today. That is why a scientific approach is so important. Therefore, it is so important to consider facts and evidence, to listen to reasons rather than to emotions, and not to approach political goals such as climate change from temporary political or even economic interests, but to think of interests in a larger context; our interests as individuals of the animal homo sapiens, and even if they were searched beyond that. This is to say that it does not seem that we are achieving goals, and again I speak in the big context, perhaps slightly less now, I'm talking about the objectives of the Council of Europe, maybe not all of the species underneath, I'm talking about the objectives of an institution dealing with issues of about 7% species. In December the European Council's target of renewable energy in Europe at this time appears to be 32% of total, with a 40% reduction in emissions of greenhouse gas from 1990 to 2030, reaching 30%, which is not enough. Many people mean that it has to be much more than 40%, which is reduced, especially when we look back at the political challenge that is that the leaders of the big states that really matter, like China, America, Brazil, and Russia, do not cooperate with this problem because they view economic and political interests for a short time rather than the long - term benefits of all of us, who are also political and economic long - term interests for all of us. But each person lives so long, so by selfishness alone, others can be sacrificed for a longer time, i.e. if the leader is thus infuriated, as those leaders evidently are. Therefore, there is no reason for optimism, a respectable president, just not at all. That's why I'm saying this fine thing that's here to meet another fine decree, a tiny part of it: we have to go further. If Iceland is really going to be promoted in climate, we have to set the goal of being good enough, not just that, but becoming the best. We're supposed to be the best. We are to use all the power that we might possibly use for research and education and science in order to do so. to cope with this problem. There's a lot of stuff in there. Energy issues are very large and extensive, affecting countless fields, if not all of them. The way we use energy, if not all, affect a lot of industry. It is important that new ideas be developed and that they are examined in their research and are made fast into innovation and become part of the economy so that we have any chance of achieving these goals. The goals, e.g. is presented in the last United Nations IPCC report for development of technology that has not yet arrived, consider. They expect a technological development that has not yet developed. It seems that we could reach it, and with adequate support of science and education, we may be able to get there, but we are not even there. Thus, there is no need for optimism in these matters, a respectable president. It has been said for decades that we must spit in our hands and immediately begin, make spectacular changes right away to protect us from these calamities. This discussion has been going on all that time, and what we face is growing ever more. Because we have ignored this call for all this time, the horrors we realize will be growing. So I don't know if I'm supposed to celebrate this case, so that there's nothing dangerous in this material, either to celebrate or curse, it's rather technical, but the directive that the bill of its origin gives an overall connection and I didn't think it was wrong to use the opportunity here to bring attention to the climate problem as the biggest common problem we face as a species today. We can't stop. We must no longer wait to spit on our hands and do what we have known for decades that we need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u26	Madam President. I recommend a judicial hearing on maintenance and preservation of old boats. During the past two decades, there has been grave silence, as it were, on the subject, on this matter of great interest, in preserving a part of our professional history and culture. That's about it. Two decades later, a proposal was made at the General Assembly, which runs on similar subjects. Now, just a few days ago, a proposal to maintain similar material here at the council has formed a small rowing on the General Assembly's speaker to speak for the preservation and maintenance of old boats, and it is well established. True, that suggestion is a little different. She expects the minister to ship one more staff. It's not done here. We do not want to watch the boat's cultural losses down further as a working group sits at work. We want two ministers to take action and let their actions speak. This will be done for a certain time, and it is also a matter of drawing employment, stakeholders, because it is an obligation to do so. The suggestion reads as follows: The General concluded to hide a marine eco-efficiency and agricultural minister in consultation with the Ministry of Education and Culture for promoting a fund with the task of maintaining and maintaining old ships and boats. The sea enjoys annual donations of budgets as well as other factors that will contribute to the share of the marine fishing sector's work on the project. The sea is working on the basis of the five-year strategy and the rules for the implementation of projects, conservation values, and measures. Show up in the approved fund. The prime minister is reporting to the General on the progress of the resolution before the end of the council in the spring of 2020. There is certainly an optimist of optimism. The prime minister manages to arrange this for the end of the assembly in spring, but there will be no conflict, and the main issue is that this urgent assignment is to be granted financial support. According to one report, a Senate case was previously submitted with the aim of assigning special income stocks to ensure the preservation and maintenance of older ships and boats. This material's resolution proposal was proposed to a 140th legislature but could not be fulfilled. The proposal was reimbursed at a 141th legion and again in vain. Now there is still a decree of the assembly, changed somewhat, but a stumbling block to the same. It is then appropriate to assume that at the 125th Parliament, the winter of 1999-2000, five members of all the councils then located in the Council of the Council made a bill to legalize that the ocean's map of evolution would have an additional role in providing museums and seamhouses for the preservation of ships. In the matter of the motion, Jón Bjarnason's son, came even. the view that it is natural for the job to have a share in the work as well as that it is responsible for its history and culture. The result of the case at the General Assembly was that the bill was converted to the treatment of a fishing committee in a new Senate resolution brought on by a seaside committee on the preservation of boats and ships. The proposal was then adopted by the General Assembly by 49 joint votes. By this resolution, the government was commissioned to prepare proposals for the preservation of old ships and boats and to shape the rules of financing as a seaside fund of evolution. component. However, there have been no suggestions or rules in line with the confirmation of the Council decision, 20 years later. It was so at the 131th assembly, in the winter of 2004◯2005, that at the time of the marine emissary, the prime minister transferred a law about the previously mentioned evolution Fund of the seabed, which was aimed at laying down the fund. The property beyond debt was to be set aside for the seaside wealth fund and to be spent on ocean research. A smaller part of the fishing committee suggested a change in property beyond the given amount and would be set aside to preserve old boats and ships. This would end up in harmony with the will of the Council of Churches since 2000 and with the convergence that was agreed upon there. Thus, nearly two decades have passed without government control and protection of old boats and safe ports, despite considerable efforts by the United States of Congress. We need to keep in mind that this is one of the basic elements of Icelandic professional and cultural history. Similar protection is a emphasis among neighboring nations, and it takes much to do so. Norwegians are building a new museum in Bygdøy, Oslo, beneath their ship-and-boat, which is remarkable and old. They're going to defend approximately Two billion Norwegian dollars to build this facility in Oslo. Of course, Mr. President, it is acknowledged that each nation must preserve its history and culture. In this country, the National Museum of Iceland is a law coded by law as a cultural capital museum. Therefore, it should be as effective as possible to preserve the Icelandic cultural mines and share the history of the nation's people with them. This role plays an ambitious but demeaning role in the National Museum. There are circumstances in which the museum is hardly financially able to secure its own humble boatloads. Mr. President. The camps around the country that care for many and varied projects for the preservation of memory and culture have endeavored to keep the watch to the extent that financial and circumstances allow. One part of the job is the preservation of old ships, i.e. Larger and smaller vessels that have historical value than those owned by ships are some 190. It is a boat of various types, and most of it is acid loads. They all meet the definition of being revered as relics, while boats are older than those in 1950 are relics at 2 mg. Section 3. track No. 80/2012, about my culture. There are now ships and boats that have reached this respectable age of about 15. Time is not a particularly important issue of authority in this area. For example, there are virtually none available today, such as quadruples and smaller ones. By the turn of 1900, there were in another thousand of those in the country that even had regional characteristics according to circumstances. This was one of the most important tools available to the rock - mass for centuries. Once again, Mr President, the same conclusion is that the Icelandic law designed to preserve the important heritage of Icelanders, which is the protection of old boats, unfortunately, is in an image, not to be taken deeper. A protective system, e.g. comparable to what is being done at a shelter fund in evaluating workers. It uses a system in which each conservation factor is graded and assessed according to its overall results. Mr. President. You can't keep everything. You can't keep all the boats, and maybe you can't. But I think it's true now that we've stopped burning boats at the stake at New Year's, hopefully. But we need to preserve the tributary of Icelandic ships and boat culture, and we need to seek to keep them floating to sea. Hence, there is reason to urge the government to keep on the watch regarding the nation's professional history and culture. A form of complacency is clear in the effective efforts made to provide financial support for the preservation of boats with public funds. Therefore, it is still attempted to propose to the Council that the recent 100th anniversary of Iceland's sovereignty in the assurance that there is a willingness to correct matters. It is suggested that the government be committed to the establishment of a fund that has the responsibility of assigning funds for the maintenance and preservation of old boats and ships, with the aim of providing a living collection of boats, which reflect worthy of one of the most important elements of Icelandic history. Transporters imagine that the fund enjoys annual donations, as well as those that will be contributed to the work of the marine road on the project. Transporters believe that there is a rich will and can be within the branches of the fishing road, within the factory, in order to meet this preservation project and to support it in a powerful way. We know that the Icelanders have a powerful factory, that their business is successful, and that they have shown an interest in Icelandic culture, Icelandic culture, and trade, and that they have invested in it with hard work and zeal. I wouldn't be surprised if they were to add their weight to the scales there, where a remarkable preservation project is within their own branches. We suggest that plans for five years be made as a result of the fund work on the basis of the approved fund, where there will be rules for maintaining values, distributions to projects, etc. It may well be thought that the fund does not have to blow out for long, but it may, in part, hide companies, institutions, funds, or members of society, to operate individual tasks, individual boats, regional conditions, as we know so well from our neighboring countries. We know this from Norway, and it is admirable to come to Norway to witness these funy old boats and ships, e.g. of Oslo port. In Bergen's harbor, it is one of the most magnificent ships in the world, St. Statsraad Lahmkul, its property of the agency responsible for it, even rents it out as a schoolship, and research for the rest of the years in the field of environmental protection and in climate research. In this way we can imagine this too, that we have a live boat fleet that is beautiful, and that gives evidence of our boldness over the years, because we have a great story of sailing and fishing. Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, is expected to present a verbal report before the end of the council, as mentioned earlier. We know that time is running out. This proposal has been made to be proposed, but for technical reasons this proposal was made after the offer was made a few days ago. But we will not be confused by this delay. The main point is that this project is being fulfilled, and it is important that the funds we make for the establishment of the employment will be put into good cooperation with the museums around the country of 13 or 14 and are mentioned in a printed version of this proposal. Mr. President. I'm here to leave my case to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u27	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing about maintenance and preservation of old boats. I had to come into this discussion for a moment, since the matter is related to my husband's renovating an old boat that doesn't fit within the limits mentioned here, that boats older than 1950 are listed as relics, since he is four years younger, from 1954. When he was laid, and it was not until 2012 that he was the oldest boat in the fishing business. It's a little trip. It is a huge project that people are about to go to, and as we know it, they are often the ones who have started with it. Sadly, we saw a boat in the West Coast going down into the bad weather the other day, which had just been rebuilt by a loyal organization and individuals. These boats must be kept inside or in the sea, and this can be costly. I can agree with very many things. A senator went over the fact that these parts of our culture have been disagreed. Truly, some of our collections, e.g. The Sports Museum, in my hometown, received considerable support to renovate and ensure that boats can be preserved. It cost blood, sweat, and tears, as with all such activities that turn toward culture, perhaps more and less have been done over the years. There are the largest marine and industrial collections in the country, and many kinds of boats are in there. I think those who do this work do just that for that purpose. You've seen this to be of interest. The boat I talked about here is in the town of Olafurs, at the coffee shop, and there it attracts attention to a small group of people, especially the young people and the kids, whether anyone has ever been to sea on such a small boat. It is also part of telling the story, how our forefathers survived, and what they had to do with it. I'm not going to take a stand on the best way to do this, whether it's by creating a special fund, as in this proposal, or as the proposal made during the day in which a group would be proposed. All of a sudden, I agree that we need to take care of our country and how we are going to hold it. I think it's what authorities need to do and look inside, whoever accepts it. It's cross-cutting and could be part of the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Marine and Agriculture Department, and the Ministry of Presidency. I think it's worth it. Of course, we should not, as quoted above, conclude that two decades have passed since approval that we are going to come to the protection and preservation of old boats and put them in safe harbors, as stated in the motion, and that 20 years later we are still talking about the same thing. That is something that we should not let happen, and of course we know that many boats are affected if we are not concerned about it. The proposal refers to the Hall of Corp. I only know how to do that, there's a Siglfer who's had a lot to do with rebuilding old boats. He has been given the strength, but he has also spent all his leisure time building boats for many years. The water boat is the first person he made, and then he's made another one. They're boats that are seagoing, they're not just put into storage, or they're in some museum. The third boat he made was quite different from the other boat that was supposed to be making an international cruise in the Middle Ages. This man has done a lot of research, research for drawings and written documents, and has worked a lot of work to do what we would otherwise have lost. It's very respectable. I agree that in order that we will not lose more, neither knowledge, nor any boats that we can fix, repair, or maintain, I give support to taking these matters into consideration so that we will not experience 20 years after this discussion that we are still in the same place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u28	A respectable president. I come up here to declare the support of this great national battle, for I am its associate and its sponsor. I'd also like to share the words of a speaker before me, OK? paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. The way we Icelanders have been associating with our fishing history, cultural history, professional history, is not indiscriminate. Today, the sheep became the cod who kept the nation alive through the centuries rather than blessed the sheep. It may tell you a story about Iceland's relationship with cod that the cod was for centuries a symbol of Iceland. The Danes, in part of the 19th century, confined this symbol of the country to Iceland, but it had to change it after an enormous battle, a very great national struggle in the latter part of the 19th century, where you walked under human hands and all worked to eliminate this contemptuous sign of Iceland, and instead a bird of prey, a hawk, who seemed to give a better picture of the true Icelandic spirit and be a more worthy representative of Iceland. Of course, it wasn't that way. Of course, the cod did much more belong to our home as a symbol in the tail than to the falcon. Europe is full of desirable things and museums full of desirable things, both desirable things that come from European nations and also desirable things that Europe has taken for prey in many countries in its conquests. There are many things that make your eye rejoice when you walk through European museums and, in fact, no one will end the vast amount of wealth there. But this is not exactly the case with our wealth in history. It is based primarily on books, our culture is on books, and there is little we can do about our professional history, our culture, and our art history. But some of us are still several boats that give evidence of employment. They are a testimony to what kept the nation alive. They are a testimony to the courage of the men who risked their lives and members to pursue life's necessities. They are a symbol of the best in our history and also of the most terrible of all because this relationship with the sea took enormous human sacrifice. The boat is also a symbol of Icelandic artistry, a symbol of Icelandic intelligence, which results in the analysis of seawater, its finding how the sea behaves and adapts to the sea and knows how to operate in the sea. I think it's our duty today to preserve as much as possible the boats that still exist and show them all well. There has been an idea that there will be an appointed group on this matter. So we're supposed to watch boats drop and then order groups to watch together those boats, as if there were not enough work here to do in the great number of groups the country's government has become. I don't think that's what the nation wants to see, and I think the will of the United States stands also, i.e. To save these cultural worth quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u29	Mr. President. I'd like to allow myself to come back here just briefly and thank you for the good discussion and understanding. Senators are showing this matter. It's a pleasure to hear what you're hearing. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir tells of a boat that has not reached the point of becoming an antique but, of course, needs to be maintained. A boat is made of perishable materials that need maintenance, but if properly and properly prepared, it can endure hope. As far as we're concerned, these ships and boats are at sea, and that's what we're supposed to be headed for. It's the most elegant thing in the world, and little is more beautiful than a well built boat like a whale. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson came in. This shows Icelandic artistry, for boats were built in many parts of the earth, and the song on them was known. In many areas around the country, weather, sea, and sea conditions were pursued well. I had an old boat myself, and I know a little bit about what it's like to keep it. Maintaining care takes time, and it can cost a fortune for those who do not have very good hands. Support for individuals is important in such projects, both financial and, especially, that they receive counsel and that it is carried out in some organized and knowledgeable process. One part of what may be happening, unfortunately, is that we fail to maintain and build up projects on old boats is that the work is lost. There are still great craftsmanships in several places in the country, I know it in the West, and young men even working with adults and learning from them, but hope alone keeps you optimistic about not being lost. I hope this material gets coverage. We have two suggestions that I just think are good. The objective is to succeed with the preservation and construction. This proposal, which I hope will be passed on to the General and Education Committee, is offered by the three of us. Harðardóttir The Guðmundur of Thorsson Thorson, as he mentioned himself before and before. paritaprevir And I hope that the proposal will get a positive coverage on a global and educational committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u30	According to the President's work document, the proposal goes to a second. and a professional committee if you don't object.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u31	Mr. President. I would have chosen this proposal to go to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u32	The suggestion now goes up to a second. and the Board of Education and Public Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u33	A respectable president. I hereby propose a synonym on a review of the legal environment for microinvestment. I'm the first carrier, but with me are the carriers of Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Willum Þór Þórsson Þrsson and Þórarinn Pétursson Pálæsson. The suggestion reads: The Council concludes to hide the Environment and Resource Minister and Professional and Neony Ministers to review the laws and regulations regarding the permission of the micro-organization programme with the aim of simplifying the application procedure. A review will be completed and a plan of action will be presented to the Council no later than at the end of 2020. This arrangement suggests that the General Assembly shall hide the Environment and Resource Minister and Professional Ministry to review the laws and regulations of the microorganization programme with the aim of simplifying the regulations and application procedure. Thus, the proposal is in line with a government contract that states that effort will be made in a simple rule for the sake of employment and the public. Miniatures, i.e. Indicators installed at 200 kW to 10 MW, are reported to the Organization under the legislation on environmental impact assessment, No. 106/2000. In view of the assessment carried out in Annex 1, the Act to be divided into categories A, B, and C. The activities described in Class A should always be subject to environmental assessment, according to Article 5. The law. However, according to Article 1. Section 6. The law of the law, carried out in Class B and Class C in the above 1. Small radicals may join Class B or Class C. The Agency shall decide whether the activations of Class B should depend fully on the environmental impact and the acting agents should therefore be submitted a report on the proposed implementation to the Agency, which will determine this. Group C systems are listed as being within the same unit. Class C activities may have considerable environmental impact and therefore should be assessed on a case by case basis for environmental impact evaluation. Annex 2 to the Act on Environmental Impact Assessment (EOS) stipulations presented in Article 2 as definitions in Annex 1. The effect of this medicinal product is to be observed, e.g. to examine the extent of environmental effects, i.e. the size of the area or the number of people who will likely be affected on the project. Factors such as polymorphisms, irreversible effects and synergistic effects are also considered to be related. The requirements for microinvolved to Class C are burdensome for e.g. Farmers who want to activate the town river. Therefore, it is worth checking to see if there is no need to raise the class standards, thereby simplifying the license team procedure. Today, the procedure is that the average farmer does not have the resources to complete it because of the cost and complexity of it. Experience shows that the requirements for Class B and Class C projects have developed towards full environmental assessment. Thus, in the case of microindustry, there is a cost, weight, and time - consuming process, and not consistent with the same dimension in other sectors, such as. In agriculture and tourism. It may take two to three years to get permission to build medium-sized activation. Credit agencies seldom lend a loan until the expected activation has all the rights. Thus, preparation costs are often a major obstacle to the executive. Some individuals have gone to high costs to obtain permission for minor activities before deciding whether the project will be met. Farmers who want to build little activation at home, therefore, need to meet the same criteria as major inactivations were at high costs. The minor inducers include e.g. Put under the same hat and large inducers when it comes to security requirements, which means they have a relative higher cost. In addition, the ablation produced by microinvolves to create the electrical energy system, by relieving it of the pressures caused by a reduced assessment from the Landsnet, largely to the distribution and Landsnets. An electronic law directive has been used to describe the implementation of electronic energy laws. for the exchange of the benefits produced by microinducers to the electrical energy system and it is clear that the Regulation needs to be reviewed for the minor inducers. The small workings are environmentally friendly energy sources that help to reduce the emissions of unwanted substances that affect earth's temperature. Monuments and natural disasters are often fully reversible. Then, as with major activations, large areas of land are not being sunk under lagoons. Microscopic intensification is linked to the electrical energy system on the land's diffuser hosts, thus strengthening the transport pathways. They are thus being used, strengthened, and improved by the electrical systems that have already been built up by society. The energy plant began at the end of 2016 microindustrial projects with the aim of promoting electricity production in the country, thus increasing the security of energy. Small inactivations can strengthen electricity production in individual parts of the country, building smaller jobs in those areas. The Agency recently published seven reports on the possibility of smaller water - power activations in many countries. The report Miniatures, ideas of small activations based on data from Iceland's Weather Office in 2018 shows that the idea is that the microinvolved project is due to a serious position in electrical security. In the third phase of the protection and energy efficiency programme, there has been little to do with eco-efficient improvements in electricity transport systems between parts of the country. The development of microindustries is therefore important in maintaining the increased demand for electricity for population growth in Iceland and may be a contributing factor in the demand for increased electricity in all the coming years. In particular in areas where the transport system cannot handle further development of job activities, small intensification is especially important. The benefits of their installation are being made in increasing income currents for landowners/growers and rural communities, thus strengthening the groundwork for country living in many parts of the country. By helping the development of microindustries, it is also working in harmony with a policy-making strategy of 2018-2024 approved by the Council as a Congress resolution in the spring of 2018. One of the effectiveness objectives of the co-primary programme is based on section B.3 as follows: To investigate and support the potential for increased electricity production in the region by small activations, thereby promoting national energy security. Norway has been successful in the development of microindustries, but it has a single institution, Norway vasdrags and energiditortrarat, NVE. NVE has mapped possible activation options, but the Norwegian government financed it, so that all hydropowers could be mapped, using models similar to the watershed watershed and the Weather Service have a way of managing land to predict water flows. Enterprises have developed that take steps to prepare for activation, financing, design and license, and make long-term contracts with farmers for income from activation. The report by the Power Management Agency on microindustries in Norway published in August 2000 shows that NVE sets the common conditions for allowing this to happen, e.g. about minimum volume of water falling. The definition of the highest and lowest surface of the input membrane is also set out and the location of the salmon ladder should be located. It is also defined as stopping activation and then running again. All permission information is public, and no building should be started until NVE has been granted permission for the implementation. As attributed to the above, the concept of small activations to the electrical system is costly and time - consuming. Therefore, a transporter believes that it is important to review laws and regulations in connection with the implementation of microindustries and to show that e.g. You can look to Norway in that regard. A respectable president. The minor inducers are defined as those less than 10 MWs. In recent years, there have been many benefits. Environmental energy and both cultural and natural resources are often fully reversible, as we have seen. In addition, microdoers connect with the network of diffuse hosts, strengthening transport pathways that reduce electricity disposal and reducing emissions of diffusers. The current government's policy is to strengthen the country's population, equal access to services, equal opportunities for employment, and contribute to sustainable development across the country. Under these circumstances, the task is to contribute to the increased energy costs of rural areas and urban areas. There are many in the country and are all over the country. The microinvestial planning and permit matters are complex and regulations that are burdensome. The process from an idea that light is, as we have seen, quite long and expensive. We need to simplify the system. Clearly, microengineers are one way to strengthen the distribution system and reduce its cost. The simple permit and planning of microintendents is opening the way to reach the distribution cost of electricity in rural areas, thereby leading to further equations of electrical costs. Clearly, we need to look at this further and reevaluate the principle. I'd like this council-sense proposal to go to the trade committee and get good coverage there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u34	President. I have to say, I'm somewhat thinking about this proposal for Congress, not because what's being dealt with is not something that needs to be examined, but because of how one-sided it is in what it needs to be considered when it comes to the minor activations in Iceland and their surroundings. There's nothing to wonder about, e.g. The size of the mini-doers. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] There is no such thing in the synonym, although the matter is certainly being reviewed, i.e. over the microinducers environment, including the legal environment in which they exist. There is no question whether 9.9 MW is too much, whether we should reduce this size limit, or whether we should cancel. Should we not have any bearing on this, but on what case, according to the environmental impact? There is no question about what we think of the situation that so many parts of the country find it so that almost all the spray glasss are used to look for possible activation options, so they are now dozens of them in public documents about where it is possible to activate. There is no evidence of people's experiences in many areas that this is a coordinated operation to activate almost every cell under the hat of the microdoers. No matter whether it is correct, whether it needs to be considered, it is only called the simple process for the development of additional minor reactivations. Since this is the only objective of the review is to simplify the principle and application procedure in connection with it. The report refers to a government contract and speaks of a campaign in simple regulations for the sake of employment and the public. Which is precisely, but not at the expense of the environment and nature, has never been negotiated. I believe it is most necessary, Mr. President, to examine the details of the mini-creature environment. The account is noteworthy, as it often is. Why did we end up with 10 MWs? It's hard to see. When the bill arrived at its time, it was based on a 7 MW, then on the committee coverage, and then it suddenly turned to 10. Why? Why do 9.9 MWs have to go to frame plan and more, but not 9.9 MW? Why is that? I don't know why that's the line. I'm still celebrating some proposals for microinvolved people. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has, for example. suggests that the limit should be reduced to a 1◯2 MW, if I remember correctly. I think it's wise to look at and, Mr. President, to consider that in view of what I call the real mini-creature, which is the farmer's applying the town brook, whether the rule there is unduly strict. Because it is true, Mr. President, as shown in the report, that such activation does not necessarily have to be the same principle as a 10 MW activation. But it's just a lot, much bigger than that. Therefore, I would support the evaluation of small activations, their environment, their laws, by what I've done here, and by countless other things. But I can't support this. Here, too, some of the attitudes I don't like and do not necessarily agree, but to some extent I can understand, i.e. that environmental assessments are so heavy and time - consuming, as shown in the report. The fact is that this attitude exists in many places. In this light, it would be good to mention that the streamlining of environmental impact assessments is being revised to a more efficient extent. To me, we should have the system so that assessment of environmental impact should be a rule rather than an exception. Of course, the scope and nature of the procedure need to be considered. But I wanted to mention this attitude, and I'm here to see that this review is going on. President. I'm prepared to review small activations, and in fact we've been on the Committee on Energy Policy and its molding to some extent talked about microdoers, even though we haven't gone deep into it. I'm willing to look at what I mentioned earlier, i.e. size limit. How is it that if I build three microinducers relatively in the same area, up to 9.9 MW who, I get out of a process where one 20 MW activation, with less power than the other three, needs to go? Is that what we lawmakers want? I don't think so. I think we should avoid in the longest of laws having boundaries, because when we land one side of them all changes, even though it is that the change may not be great. Remember, President, that 9.9 MW activation can have more environmental effects than much greater activation. [[Up front.]] Much more environmental impact. We have developed a process on how we're going to set down priming options, all over 10 MWs. I think that process should apply to other options, and I think we should be careful to call one-sided, as a rule of action and application procedure all become simplified when it comes to the inactivation process. Maybe we should actually make up the mini-industry party, because, as I said, President, I think what we're going to find out in the report. Maybe we should make up the real micro-invasion party where the town brook is actually being activated and maybe the next town. But 9.9 MW activation isn't the activation of town streams, it isn't at all. It's an activation in which some of the power and energy may be used in the immediate environment, but the biggest part is sold into our electrical system, which is fine, we need electricity. Fine. But let's not let the environment relax.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u35	A respectable president. I wanted to ask you what. In view of what the senator said, a member of the body is only opposed to this particular suggestion. He said that it would be easy to revise the details of a minor operation, but it was made clear in his case that he was not in favor with the matter. The only thing I see in this case that in any way might be wrong is that the application procedure was simplified. The suggestion means that the objective of their review of laws and regulations is to simplify the application procedure associated with them. It does not mean that walking on nature should automatically make it easier. It claims itself that smaller inducers do not require the careful assessment that the larger fortresses require. That is why I feel quite likely to try to simplify the application procedure involving them. I can't quite figure out what it is like. A senator is at an assembly in this suggestion. I also have to say, and I'm going to go through a little later in a speech, that I have felt that the wording from the traditional sources of environmental protection against hydropower activations alone, especially in the light of climate change and our needs for electricity. That need is not to go away, it's growing, it's growing here like anywhere else. There are also increasing opportunities to have enough energy, even when energy is satisfied in the community. I find it strange, therefore, what somehow there is alone opposition, I perceive it as opposition, to hydropower workers as if they are in nature against nature. But we are not only protecting a beautiful view and a single dollar or whatever it is that people want to protect when they against water - power activation, which often and often can be a completely legitimate perspective, to form in Cálder's activation, which I opposed at the time, I also feel lack understanding that hydropower workers are probably the most environmentally acceptable way we have today, except for what we have today. A senator can fix that, to produce electricity. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a environmental approach. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's what's missing from factions of left greens.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u36	The President forgot how to figure out three down. Because members of Parliament have requested an answer, they have one minute to debate in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u37	President. Hv. A senator said something about telling himself that less activation had less effect than larger. It's wrong, as I mentioned here. You see, that doesn't say itself. Depending on the circumstances of the day. As I mentioned in my speech, 9 MW activation can have more environmental effects than e.g. 20 MW activation, so they say. In no way have I spoken against the construction of water workers, not at all. As far as I remember at the end of my speech, it was nice that we were going to activate and sell into our system. But I want us to have it under the same system that we create to ensure that all effects are evaluated. Environmental impact evaluation is not default and this is except for anything called e.g. A frame plan. As far as I know, the left-green environmental minister is now proclaiming the contributions of such a strategy so I don't understand a word of it. The senator's handling that the left is somehow turning down easy. I just don't understand. Why don't I take comfort in this? Yes, President, I thought I'd gone over it. It says, by permission of the President: The Council concludes to hide the Environment and Resource Minister and Professional and Neony Ministers to review the laws and regulations regarding the permission of the micro-organization programme with the aim of simplifying the application procedure. This is the only thing that the Council should hide, not the environment of microinvolved, not the research of individual institutions, not whether the boundaries are correct or not just the licenseal process. That's what I don't like about you, top dog. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u38	A respectable president. I must admit that I am no closer to the reasons for opposition. The senator on this proposal. Simplifying the rule book must be positive in nature. It must be positive in nature if we are in favor of the hydropower activation and, in particular, less water - power activations that can produce electricity in a environmental way. Now I'll let VG talk about VG as a whole, and there's a lot of things going on that I'm not in a position to get over it. But what I was critical of introductory language. The senator is at ease. A senator spoke of a one - side approach in this council odor proposal, but I don't see it as one - sided. On the other hand, I feel that it is a one - sided case. To say that hydropower workers are something that is, in its nature, extremely dangerous from environmental reasons, not taking into account their impact on the climate problem. I feel like they're short of emphasis, too. Even if I can agree with it. However, a senator who I am doubtless about the importance of fully examining the effect of the continuum transfunctioners, 10 MWs or more, has a role in nature protection of building the fortresses, and I feel that it is a lack of speech. Senator. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u39	President. Either I am here speaking in another language or the senator is going out of his way to get my words out. Again, and now for the third time: I haven't been speaking specifically of water - power activation. I haven't been. "Mr. President. I'm not looking at the case after an excel document. If we're in favor of the water power activations, we said what? Senator. You cannot admit or deny that either you prefer or do not accept water - power activation - we have an environmental assessment. If it is claimed that the request to comply with strict rules on the assessment of action measures such as the hydrolytics is the same as opposition to hydropower activation because of their environmental impact, as well as that of the water sources. A senator came to here earlier, then they're just turning out. I specifically stated that it would require activation, that it would require electricity. However, I took it at the same time that I would like to live by the strictest rules in this regard. Therefore, I welcome the ideas of the assessment, and I may need a simple rule, as I described it. However, it is not enough to consider just one thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u40	A respectable president. I cut it down in the words of a man. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér said that he wanted a simple system of activations, perhaps a little out of place, but it's in no way that I propose this proposal to minimize environmental impact or that there are no strict rules in this regard. The simple rule does not indicate that the rules should not be applied when set out. But it can be simple, and especially in that category. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether environmental impact legislation is not clear enough to determine these categories, A, B and C, depending on their size. The need for environmental assessment due to the activation should be evaluated by the Organization, if this is not sufficiently clear. When a C-class activation is installed, it is under the rural population. Do we not have to explain a simple rule of less activation, and do we not agree that it is a reason to simplify and explain these rules but to apply them fully?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u41	President. As I mentioned, the environmental assessment laws are being revised. I came here to the attitude that I think is all too predominant in the community, often unjustly, that the assessment of environmental impact is delayed instead of the fact that executives are being estimating the impact on the environment of their implementation. By permission of the President: The report shows that the terms of licenses for Class B and Class C projects have developed towards full environmental assessment. Thus, in the case of microindustry, there is a cost, weight, and time - consuming process, and not consistent with the same dimension in other sectors, such as. In agriculture and tourism. It may take two to three years to get permission to build medium-sized activation. That's the attitude I was talking about. The assessment of environmental impacts is referred to as part of a heavy, cost - consuming, time - consuming process and not consistent with the same level of implementation. It would have been nice to have an example of this because we are always comparing a very different type of work. Is there a verse-traveling rush? President. This is what I've been talking about as a breather of this, which leads to my inability to support that we're only getting to the details of the microinducers because the only thing that has to be done there is to simplify the permit system. I said before, maybe it's one of the things to consider, maybe it's super heavy when it comes to the slightest activation, I just don't know it. But if this were to be allotted to the small inactivations and their surroundings, with all that I have set, with environmental reasons, my attitude toward this matter would be very different.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u42	A respectable president. If this interpretation proposal was adopted, it might also be possible to map the hydropower workers of this size, how they have been affected, where they are, and what priming methods are available. They're working on this all over the country. Hv. A senator mentioned whether I had an example. I can mention, for example, the 400 kW activation installation, it needs to be examined for its environmental assessment. You have to count birds for two years. We may be talking about activation, which has no effect on the environment, it is completely reversible. This process takes a lot longer than building, just below the activation, perhaps 1,000 square feet [1,000 square meters] of tourism or enforcing land for breeding.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u43	President. Yes, I can agree with that by making mistakes. A senator came in here at the end. What I was doing with a comparable project is that you can't compare any projects, it's never exactly the same. I see what you're doing. A senator is referring to the scope and the scope of it all. I myself believe that we should do much more to assess environmental impacts as we change land, recover wetlands, grow forests. There are people who want the lard, turn the hookers into lice. There's a change in the country. We should not hesitate to assess the environmental impact of this, since the assessment of environmental impacts is not an end, what is being done there. It does, at least. President, it's so hard to always appreciate. There's an option. You do not know exactly what a final project will be like because it may have changed because of different options.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u44	A respectable president. I think it's safe to say that it's being carried in the tray full of streams when three respond. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér. [[Foreground on: Never too much.]] But this is an informative debate, and a number of fine points have appeared here. It is true that 9.9 MW activation is extensive, and it takes considerably more than just some tiny stream to enable 9.9 MW. I know quite well for activation that's being built near me, which is supposed to produce a 5.6 MW. This certainly is an enormous project. And the question I would throw at you. The senator in this discussion is that perhaps we should reassign the microdotes more up, the farmers themselves, i.e. the little rivers, and then the next step as a dog. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir deals with his synopsis because there is heaven and sea between us. There is also the sky between us when we go up to even larger fortresses. I'd like to direct it to what it is. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér's whether we should go that way, we better define what is involved in true minor activations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u45	President. Yes, it is unexpected, but it is truly satisfying to have many members of the council come to believe that I would like to beat all those nooses at the time. I just agree completely with what. A senator and I made a slight impression in my speech that there is a big, big difference between whether it's being activated by the town brook to drive the townhouses and the activities being done on earth, for example, and then something extra that may go on the next town and may even save lines into valleys, etc., very nice, and so many megawatt activations that may have the primary purpose of selling electricity and making money. I quoted a synopsis proposal as it was. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has worked to change these sizes and would take it as a matter of course. A senator is talking about these little activations. I'd say that's a MW. I thought about the idea that maybe there should be no limit, but that the environment should be determined each time, and so on. I think it's early for 200, 300, 400 kW activation not belong in the same category as 9.9 MW, it's completely morning light. That's why I rolled it up and took a dog's cover on the story: How did we end up in 10 MWs? Perhaps we do well to consider ourselves and remember that we are the lawgiver and what was set here as a 10 MW once in our power to change and lower.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I suppose this discussion ends up that way. A senator may agree in many ways with the suggestions of the Convention's Reconception, but she may need a little more explanation and correction on environmental assessment and the like. I think it's safe to say that there is considerable opportunity in all the factors involved in the inactivation process. Maybe all we have to do is go to these things and consider them more clearly what a minor activation is. Somewhere, the cut point must be, whether it is 20 MW or 10 MWs or whatever. It is man's job to define it and then we continue to work on it. But with all these minimal activations, I'd like to remind you that you need about that. 45 MW to run a house and a cow farm.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u47	President. Hv. A senator is a political party. Here he has gathered the discussion and found that, in fact, we all agree. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That's a good result. Yet, a grain of truth is in its place by reason of the wind. Senator. I think there's a lot of reason to examine the environment of microorganists, as I came to see in my speech. I don't think it would be good if this review were to be done only under the guidance of the simple license operation as suggested here, no matter what the report says, that's all the advice is. A complete review of sizes, different categories should be performed as observed in the paediatric range. A senator, in connection with a frame plan, on whether we could always be able to provide adequate environmental protection and protection, whether or not we can reassign the activations side by side and get out of this. [[The president calls.]] We're here to talk about dinners we're worried about getting people out of the way. Is there a small-industrial roof that people are getting away from? And so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u48	A respectable president. I'll see if I can dig up one thing or another that we still disagree. But I'd like to start by saying that if I turned out of something as a dog. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér said it was surprising, I'd have to look at the tape to find out. If he did, I'll ask for favor. It's been an accident, and it's not my will to do anything like that. The suggestion in this subject involves simplifying the application procedure for microdotings defined up to 10 MW. As I crossed the river in reply, I am forbidden to understand exactly why anyone might object. Is it not always best that the application procedure is as simple, as simple as possible? I don't think there was a particular ambition to have it as simple as possible. If so, it would be very strange, considering what you are supposed to get used to by the authorities when they create a license policy. There's got to be something there that can be simple, and then I think I might simplify it, absolutely without taking any requisite measures against the environment. Now I'm going to go into the blessed environment a little bit. I will not put words into any man's mouth, whether he that is present this day or whatever is in the assembly. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otttar's son Proppér, who is older than two winters, has been there and has participated in discussions and debates about the environment, and especially the effects of the catapulters throughout the years, since I was a teenager, which may not be too long ago. To those present, it is absolutely obvious that there is a certain attitude of the dominant in Icelandic society or that there has been at any rate regarding the environmental impact of the hydropower workers. This view has been marked by the negative effects of hydropower workers on the environment. There is a good reason for that attitude. This is because they can have a very negative impact on the environment. But I also feel that the environmental debate, both environmentally and industrial and creative, is missing to look a little more at this after the excel document for environmental protection. It's been said here that it should not be looked at from the excel. Yes, it's all right to put your heart and soul in something, but the excel file is important, a respectable president. The facts matter. It matters how much energy comes. It matters. This is not to say that higher activation is automatically worse. Higher activation yields, I suppose, more energy. That's good. Making environmental energy through the hydropower activations is positive for the environment, a respectable president. I usually feel that this is a friend of the environmentalist debate. I'm going to have a slight balance in this, and I'm going to also criticize industrial and activationists for not saying more about the point that the hydro-fallers have the best way of creating electricity. We can fully see that there is a greater demand for electricity in this century, not just because we're finding new and more interesting ways to use it but also because we have to replace other much lighter energy sources, relate and in short, less expensive, e.g. oil. Over the years, I have felt that it harmed a certain good cause for environmentalists - and I say that I am an environmentalist myself, trying to protect the whole planet, not just some beach or valley - that word sometimes rests on certain misunderstandings. Let me mention three things that I have felt were missing from the environment on the basis of environmental protection. Not on the basis of industry, not on the basis of profit or possession or on any such basis, but on the basis of environmental protection. One thing is financial priorities. I couldn't find it quickly on the Internet, but I saw many years ago that it was the environmentalist who had dared to put things on a set of priorities, that it may not have mattered terribly much to the more important things, the amount of money, the amount of money you could get from these funds, etc. This person reported that for this, he experienced a lot of anger from the environmentalists, as if he were putting prices on nature, as if he were making nature into capitalism. Of course, there is a fundamental lack of understanding about how to address environmental issues. Of course, priorities are needed, and of course merit is needed. When it comes to the environment, it is good to have your heart in place. But it's not quite enough, just like when it comes, for example. that health care, you need to consider things. We are given difficult questions, such as how to use funds to get the best results in what area and why and for how long. It is only natural for people to feel a lot of pain when they are discussed or heard about them. But it does not change what is right. It is the excel document and the heart that answers the right thing to do. Historically, there has been great opposition to nuclear energy, especially to combat climate change, which is a very strange approach. I'm gonna start by saying, so I don't scare my friends here in Iceland, that I'm not suggesting a nuclear plant in Iceland. I think that would be a big mistake because Iceland is a volcano. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] However, nuclear power is one of the factors we should view as animal species when it comes to fighting climate change. This has also been the case in the order of some environmentalists because they view nuclear power as essentially bad, which it is not. She has pros and cons. When it comes to climate change, it has advantages. When it comes to waste, it has flaws. There are lots of these things that we need to weigh, and it's not always easy. In fact, I would say that it is usually difficult when it comes to real solutions. It is understandable, though, that when it comes to activation in Iceland, people are skeptical and skeptical because of something else that has also been discussed, much more rightly, I feel that I am on the part of environmentalists, and it's how we're using our energy. If it had been in its time, it would have been a goal for us to use the energy for real energy exchange, I think that we could all be in electric cars today. I wouldn't be surprised, in advance, about the cost of buying these cars. Or to create hydrogen, which is expensive to create and does not make good use of energy, but if the oil could be replaced by hydrogen, although it would be energy loss by creating hydrogen from the electricity and the water, it might be practical. But we never went that way, got into a major industry, making aluminium and silica. Neither is absolutely useless from an environmental point of view, aluminium is highly recycled, it's good, it's easy to recycle an elf. If it is thrown out on the street, the government needs to pick it up and recycle it. That's good. That's a good thing. I've never completely understood why the aluminium industry itself is not more effective in advertising this fact. Of course, there is also much pollution from aluminium production that cannot be overlooked. It's not black or white. Similarly, you do not necessarily want a silica factory next to you. It is polluted with silica, which is used to make solar batteries, and somewhere a silica must be created to make the solar cells that we need to use. Why does the industry not boast more of this effect? That's what I don't quite understand. But there's pollution, too, and a number of things that need attention. One of the best ways to produce electricity has hydrofall activation. The question is, do we really benefit from water - power activations here in Iceland? I'd say yes. And now in less than a minute and a half, I'm going to throw myself the most direct route to the third energy pack and sea cable and say that although I don't think it would be wise for Iceland to land a sea cable today, I think it would be good if it was economicly practical, if we had a lot of energy and could activate it without going too close to nature, that we could sell it at a good price out of land, and thus help other nationalities, to form UK and other European countries, to rid ourselves of carbon-based electricity. That would be good, that would be very good. The anxieties of environmentalists have been caused by sea cables, just as they are about to activate anything that can be activated in Iceland. I'm not sure, first of all, that their concerns are necessarily valid. Second, I am not entirely convinced that searching for more opportunities to produce energy for sale from the country is essentially bad. I think it's a little late for the conversation, so I'm fine that I'm done with my time. But it's not over, and I support this proposal, and I'm an environmentalist, but I feel that the conversation could be a little deeper between both sides, so to speak. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u49	A respectable president. I had no choice in interesting discussions and objections but requested to address a matter in which it so surprisingly seems that I find an assessment of the environmental impact of a very interesting subject. Thank you. Senators who make this arrangement for performing it, and I think it has a full purpose here, although only for the discussion that has taken place at the council Hall right now. I've said it before in this chair, a respectable president, that I think we're in a ditch when it comes to these matters. Environmental impact assessments and the idea of what is intended to be solved are extremely important. To ensure an assessment of the environmental impacts of individual activities prior to the final decision on leave measures is important. To promote the cooperation of stakeholders and to increase the involvement of the public in decision-making programmes that affect the environment is important and it is also important to deal with predictable negative consequences, including counter-importations in the design of the projects. This is true regarding the environmental assessment of implementation, but when we reach the environmental assessments, different options are to be compared. I'd like to wonder if it's part of the problem we have, when it comes to various projects and plannings, that we're not entirely using the device. I may be going outside a little bit of the material, a respectable president, I realize that when we're talking about microinvolved, we're generally talking about projects, but often it's decided to go some one way, but then it's decided to try to meet the conditions of the environment while I think the environmental assessment has been considered a methodology to find some conclusion. I think it's part of the problem. I told him earlier that I felt that we were in the ditch with regard to this rule, so I think the work that happens at the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister for reviewing these legislation with the work force is very important. As a matter of fact, I would like to reiterate that I feel that the principle of shipwork needs to be under, too, because it covers an evaluation of the environmental impact of projects, and this is all connected. The reason I say we're in a ditch is because sometimes I feel that this system is working for the system itself, not for the people and the environment, as it was originally thought. Now I say this because I have more than ten years of experience in being the head of a planning committee and dealing with all kinds of projects, lines and other things and going through this process in one of the larger rural areas of the country. We often scratched our heads, and often we had to seek the assistance of outsiders, such as the Organization and the EEA, if they did so. I often felt that this was more about producing some reports than about helping us find out what was the best outcome and what was the best countermeasures. There's a lot of engineering clinics that give themselves a chance to work through this stuff, and I just feel that this system is on self-control. As a result of what is described in the report, the inducers we consider to be microinvasions and think to be in the best interests of all, some huge piece of paperwork, and nothing will happen to them. This does not apply just to microinvasion. It is a number of projects, a number of very important projects, internationally important projects. Then I understand, too, and that was why I asked for the word when the people answered, completely the point of the mind. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé showed us how we want to evaluate these projects and how they affect the environment, and we want to respond as effectively as possible. So I don't think the answer to this is necessarily a discount for some particular project, but I agree with what they say, that we need to sort it out. Not all projects can live in the same great, long, food process. We must also have simple solutions. This is certainly true of minors, but there are other factors. That's why I think it's so important that the work ends with a review of these laws, and I again restate that the principle of planning must be under it, too, because we too often end up with small projects in a long process. For example, a buried water tank in the Mosfells Company, which was needed to fulfill other regulations and laws that we have set here, had to undergo a process of over a year and a variety of comments and dissociatives and environmental evaluations and all the packages. Then there's something wrong, a respectable president. Then we've created a system that's spinning around the system, but we're not here to solve the real problems. I'm just gonna thank the senators who made the synopsis proposal. I think it's a good thing to discuss this, and I don't doubt that there's also some interesting debate about the proposal on the Committee that will hopefully be a pressure for us to re-evaluate the whole system, mainly with the environment in mind, but also the fact that we can work on it and that it will be solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for her input into this discussion. It was earlier that Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son Proppér had a keen desire to cover the discussion and make it ours. It seems to me that most of the people who have spoken up here are moving in that category. It's rather interesting when we're discussing these matters, and why. paritaprevir In her speech, the prison of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, this writing man, this planning organization, came into it quite well. You may not be allowed to say such things, but let's just take the next activation I've got, which is just in my backyard. I remember that the process has been completed seven years since they left for their assignment. And that's just 5.5 MW. But let us not give a discount on walking well in the environment, for the use and protection that are now the ideals of us candidates are always in this together. It would be interesting to ask what. A senator with a lot of knowledge of organizational matters what steps we would need to take regarding the less activations, whether they have any ideas about how we can access that aspect.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Although I have experience in working in this sector for a considerable amount of time, I am not going to publish myself as an expert and, as a result, know the complete answer to a question. Senator. Now I don't know the activation of the back yard by the why. A senator or her background, but seven years sounds like a ridiculous long time for such activation. I imagine the problem must be at least Two, and even more problems, upstairs. One of the things I don't think we should forget is what I mentioned in my speech, that we may be using the device in the wrong direction. As a result, those who do this work start with the decision and return to fulfilling it, as it were. A senator expressed it, the demands of the writer's penitentiary. I think the ideologies behind the law and method are that this is helping us make a decision. Is the activation there a reasonable option or not, should be somewhere else, what could be possible counter measures and such? But that's what I think it's all about, and that is, of course, the ideologies behind this synonym. Congress, that we must be able to classify ourselves according to importance. Not all projects are required to go through such detailed procedures. It's a lawsuit I agree with. But I don't trust myself to say here and evaluate the exact location of such boundaries. I think it's very important that in the work of reviewing environmental assessment laws and planning laws, which I want to be put in the same package, there are some projects that may not have to go through completely the whole process, there is, I'm not going to give you a separate law, but some easier way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u52	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a synonym for a national payment on the future of the city of Reykjavík airport. With me, I've got 15 o'clock. Councilmen at the proposal that says: ▪ The General concludes that there will be a national payment to see if the airport and the centre of national and medical flights remain in the Reykjavík Water marshes. The following question will be raised in the National Code: ▪ Do you know that the airport and the centre of domestic, educational, and medical flights will remain in the South End of Reykjavík until another equally good or better option is ready for use? Yeah. No.How can I The proposal suggests that comparable suggestions were offered at 145, 146, 148, and 149 C.E. A national agreement on the future of the city's Reykjavík airport is proposed. This gives the nation an opportunity to tell their minds and to influence where the airport and the center of domestic and medical flight will be in the predictable future, including the future. with regard to national interests. Governments of the public interest are taking place in the land of transportation, and the location of the airport and the international centres are very important in this context. The airport plays a very important safety role for the public in the country because of a medical and emergency flight, as well as a reserve airport. Then the airport plays a very important role in the national public defense system. For further information on the importance of the security role of the Reykjavík Air Force in a report by Þorgeir Pálsson, a former airport manager, for transport and rural management, the role of Reykjavík's airport in the security system of the country that Þorgeir returned to the transport secretary in August 2017. The location of the airport has been controversial for some time. Following trial of the Supreme Court of June 9, 2016, No. 268/2016 was made mandatory in closing the northeastern/southwestern airport in accordance with the agreement of the then national secretary and mayor in Reykjavík from 2013 onward. Has a secure runway now been closed. Still, the future position of the city's Reykjavík airport and its role as a future transport center are not unique, but in the world planning of Reykjavík's world, the airport is expected to depart in stages after 2022. It is so high that the airport will actually close when the north/south highway is closed, to which Reykjavíkurburg is heading for 2022. In this regard, you will also need to look for a transport program for 2011-022, adopted by Council No. 48/140, it is assumed that the airport will be in Reykjavík until 2020, even if its location is not clearly established. This will include a transport plan for 2019◯2333, which was adopted by Council No. 11/149, based on the fact that the city's area of Reykjavík can continue to serve an international flight properly while another equally good or better option is not available. In the case of the matter, it was found that 1,5◯20 years would begin building a new airport in another location. Therefore, it is imperative that the nation be given the opportunity to express their thoughts about the matter and thus influence the final conclusion of the matter that could be the case. This includes legal implementation of organizational authority, taking into account important interests of the public. Reykjavíkur airports have a wide range of functions in the urban and capital transport areas. The stadium is an indistinguishable center of national flight. It plays a key role. The airport is usually about 400,000 passengers each year, and the number of passengers has increased. Part of the trip is to attend urgent medical services in the capital area. The airport plays a key role in a medical and emergency flight and thus has to do with the greater security concerns of the public, which is an indistinguishable link to the country outside the southwest corner of the Land Hospital. By 2017, there were 799 Myst Flights in a country that had 849 patients, but a number of them were also taken to a hospital plane with the Land Guard helicopters. Last year, 733 patients were taken in a medical flight to Reykjavíkurvegur, from Reykjavík 219 to Reykjavík, 514 patients. In addition to these figures, there is an increased supply of medical equipment in the National Reservation Guard. Last year, 138 individuals were taken in a medical flight to Reykjavík, with members of the National Reservation Guard. It can be estimated that 85% of air transports have medical planes and about 15% of them have helicopter flights. Governments have established official health policy that there will be only one high - tech hospital at the Reykjavík Circle Road, near the airport. Thus, transportation between airport and hospital is needed to ensure the availability of public access to the country's settlement to the hospital. The airport also plays a key role in the linking of the country to public infrastructure and important public institutions, most of which are in the capital area as well as in public trades and services. The airport is also an important center of educational flights, surveillance and search and rescue flights, and an important reserve airport for the Cheflavour Airport. At that time, the airport has an ever greater role in the development of ever-growing tourism, and there are opportunities to spread more of the country through the airport. All of the above factors, as well as general economy resulting from internal flying strength, including with respect to environmental and security factors, the importance and nature of the airport being in the Hydromese so that it can properly function so that all the people of the country have access to the capital. An internal Ministry report on a social analysis of the future of the national flight of 2014 shows that there is likely to be a high impact in national flights, and may not be acceptable if it is transferred from Reykjavík, e.g. To Keflavík Airport. Thus, it is essential for effective domestic flights in Iceland to have the centre of national flight in Reykjavík and thus closely associated with the service of the country to its capital. The report also shows that domestic flight is economicly profitable and that national benefit from this time of 40 years is about 70 billion. value of 2013 In the opinion of the General Assembly that a public and secret national agreement should be held on a matter or a law code applies to the implementation of national regulations, No. 91/2010, and the conclusion is such a vote from the counselor. All reasonable evidence is drawn toward maintaining the airport and the home of an Equatorial aircraft, but if there is some change, it is necessary that the entire nation be brought to that decision in a direct and democratic way. Thus, in the treatment of the case at the 149th legislature, a environmental and transport committee was referred to as a review. The committee received 21 reviews. A large part of rural society and community members who submitted a review supported the proposal that all citizens of the country could have an opinion on the future of the city's Reykjavík airport. The city of Reykjavík was therefore opposed. A report by the Icelandic professional pilots stated that there is good reason for such national pay. Reykjavíkur Airport would be a means of transportation that served all the inhabitants of the country. At that time, the joint review of WOWair, the director of the Icelandic pilots' Association, and the Safety Committee of the Icelandic Air Force, stated that a national agreement for the future of Reykjavík's airport was a national agreement. This would not be the case in Reykjavík, especially in view of the fact that the State was the country's owner at the airport. Then it would be important from economic and environmental considerations as a spare airport, where reserves would be considerably reduced if used as a spare airport. Geographically, by considering the public institutions and the Hospital, the Watermycin would be one of the best sites for airports in the capital area. Therefore, the movers believe that it is clear that there is a great need for a national agreement on this urgent transport and security issue. That's when I've been through the report on the case. The newest information I obtained today about a medical flight last year was that I had an airplane flight of 770 patients in 848. In the past three years, it's been an arduous figure. By the turn of the century, when the medical flight started in the picture we know today, it was more than 200 flights, but it is now nearly 800. I have mentioned this in another field and wanted to discuss the national security issue in a larger context, that in this sermon over the years, last through a request adopted by the council, which was requested by some members of the Independence Party, to take out the country's most important security interest, whether by electrical systems, telecommunications, or by transportation. This is clearly one of the factors that should be presented in such a report because this is among the principal infrastructures of national security, as shown in a report by Þorgeir, son of Pálsson, a former airport manager, where he primarily writes about his security role. I have also been able to speak to people of similar national security laws as we know them in neighboring lands. In Sweden, the term riksintresse and in Norway, Denmark, Britain, the Netherlands, and elsewhere, there are most of the communities I know and have been studying, in northern Europe, with such legislation. It seems that most of our communities set these laws 30, 40, or 50 years ago, so we are a substantial part of ourselves considering these major community security factors. I just wanted to add this into the discussion because I believe that we in this room are going to consider in a much more targeted way the basic security and the needs of society. We have a number of examples on the transport system. The transport system of electricity has been delayed, and the effect has been far and wide. There is little to do, for we in itself do not have a proper picture of the role of the electrical transport system. What are we going to contribute there? What was new in the weather was 10,◯11. It was December that our transport system, primarily the transport system, failed us. It was a new one because, in general, it has been the distribution system of electricity. There is now a group of ideas to look at further ideas about how we will respond to them. I just wanted to bring this into the discussion because this is part of the big discussion that I want to approach with the petition adopted at the council last week, this and more of these, that we will make ourselves some complete picture of taking these matters and trying to approach the neighboring countries to how we're going to deal with them. I hope, after the report request, the council will be working further on these factors. I've studied what came up in this conference room three years ago, and since then I've been thinking about it. I don't see that I as a single senator can make or execute such a law. This is a huge project that the whole community has to participate in. What we also need to define in general and in general is the role of the European Commission, the government and the Senate, when we are ensuring security. I have pointed out that it is abnormal when the implementation of the extracurricular and other institutions involved in the public security issues where it is not clear enough who is responsible for these factors. This is one of the cases that I have discussed in this council hall, where I find the Icelandic Government and the Icelandic government have failed by not having a clear vision of how to handle matters in order to secure the national public and security interests of the nation. I hope that the discussion will be effective on the issues and issues related to this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u53	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. Senator two questions. The first is, Count now. A senator that authorities are obliged to enforce and follow the results of a consulting national law? Its proposal includes the advice of a national body, such as at any given moment. A senator knows where he is. I'm asking that this is because the Council of National Order was held in 2012 on the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, the best that can be said for any kind. One senator is that he has been drawing his feet in that matter and, in fact, has been against it all along. This leads to the second question: What is that? A senator will think that if this council proposal is accepted and voters say: Yes, they want the airport to stay in the Hydromosis? What? Will a minister suddenly stand up and say: " It is important that we show proper respect for democracy and national law? Will he present a bill that will take away the upcoming planning city of Reykjavík? Or will Reykjavíkurburg suddenly see her face, thinking, " Best to keep the airport moving? ' What is that? A senator thinks that's going to happen? If nothing, then why? A senator is open to the motion I intend to make it binding and hide a minister to negotiate with Reykjavíkurburg for the continued state of the airport in Watermam rather than a planned poll which is already to come to all that is hard to see. The senator and the government he supports will survive?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u54	Mr. President. It is stated in the 2010 law on national pay that I quoted earlier that they are advisers, so I expect them to be advisers, and that it is the lawgiver, who is standing here or our predecessors, who adopted this 2010. This is a counselor, so that question is answered. If we don't change the national law, they'll be like this. I don't know how an adjustment proposal would deal with that, but it's the law we're dealing with. What happens? For decades, large surveys of 60,480% of the population have wanted to have an airport in the Hydromosis, in the number of polls in a historical setting over a long period of time. That's what I feel about the nation's mind. It may well be that such national pay is more important and that it would work for the person who makes the decisions involved in these matters than for me to draw attention to it, as the report shows, that when the case was presented in the previous year, there were 21 paradigms and a number of rural partners. Just a review from the comments presented. What I call for in the community, whether it's this case with Reykjavík, the electric, the electrical systems, our transport, or our communications, is that it's about national security and that individual rural society will not be able to decide to cross the case. A fine example in Sweden is the Brommma airport that Stockholm was going to shut down, but for the security interest of Sweden through ◯riksintreresse, the Swedish government stopped that case. [[The president calls.]] I'll mention it as an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u55	A respectable president. I know that the proposal involves a tax adviser. That's what I'm critical of because it can be made binding. I'm going to describe in the following talk how it can be made binding, but this is by making the synopsis a proposal to re-negotiate with the city of Reykjavík for the longevity of the London Airport in the Waterhouse and that the Council's resolution take place in the National Reunion Act. That's the adjustment I plan to make, and maybe I'll discuss it better materially at what it is. A non-continent senator. On the other hand, this issue is not in my mind whether a Reykjavík airport should be where it is or not. I consider this matter to be a question of direct democracy and of who to make the decisions. I'm about to decide what happens to her in general. We divide it down so that we all decide our best interests together and each individual in the foundation of their own interests. We've got a story on the advice of a national law. It's because the authorities simply ignore them, and that's why I decide from the answer. The senator's not going to do anything with the approval of this synonym and the yes - and - yes answer of the voters. I don't think anything will happen, that nothing will change, because there is no formal process that will take over from her. If we believe in direct democracy, if we believe that such controversies are meant to have some significance, we need a constitution or at least to make the matter a legalized matter. On the other hand, when politicians decide for themselves what goes on the terms of national law and the conclusions to be respected and which outcome is not simply dependent on the outcome. Exception is if you're Pirati. I call attention to the fact that in our policy, it is stated that if 10% of the voters object to the case, we will submit a new proposal for a binding national agreement on that matter. We had prepared a nationalized proposal for a third energy package against a smaller personal conviction if it happened to have been elected by the group or if 10% of voters were to call for it. I know there's only one band in Iceland who actually respects the results of a national agreement and calls for it. [[The president calls.]] I call attention to this because this interpretation proposal in this outfit does not have such a mark.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u56	Mr. President. I think, in fact, I answered a previous answer, so I have nothing to add. I am interested in discussing materially the issues that turn to the city's area of Reykjavík and its importance in the big movie, not on other issues related or connected. I have nothing to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u57	Mr. President. Here's a pact proposal for one of these polarists to paint the community. I have great sympathy for all aspects of that matter, I have sympathy for Reykjavíkurburg and the people here who want to see their city grow and evolve, and most of all, become dense. I also have as a passenger and a pilot using the Reykjavík airport, a great understanding that there is some solution that serves the interests of those using the airport. It is good to have that suggestion in some respects. I agree completely with that. paritaprevir The Hrafn Gunnarsson's weekend suggested, there's a problem with the form. Although it is criticism that may not be in the material discussion of what should be done with the city of Reykjavík, it is important that we have a conversation about the nature of national agreements and perhaps especially the phenomenon of administering national pay because throughout history they have been ignored by governments so often when they are not suitable. I don't object to national regulations, but let's figure out a few dangers. They're sometimes used, I don't think it is in this case, to create an alibi for political opinion or unwillingness. They are sometimes used to mislead discussions, and they are sometimes assigned to create a present or to create a contract position in the power of a public rumor. In each of these cases, there are problems, so it is always better that suggestions are binding in order to make it clear that this is not just a political game. Still, it is not possible to criticize this particular suggestion or the question to be asked, that is not to be opposed because the purpose of this is that the relationship between the people is not cut off until something else is replaced. To oppose this expression would be somewhat appropriate, since the current hospital would be shut down before a new one would be taken advantage of. Maybe it's a little more exaggerated than the same thing. So I don't even think it takes a national fee to take a stand on this matter. Everyone should see that we need some final solution in the city of Reykjavík. We need some home for domestic flights, teaching flights, public flights, and especially hospital flights, which are widely used and of great importance for the country, for the nation in general, and for all the possible uses of the airport. That's the point. It's obvious we can't let the airport leave until there's a solution. What the solution to this is what I have felt is that some people are missing a political decision. Some are referring to Whalesun, and I think that there is a perfect basis for a thorough examination of Whaleshaft in this context. I've seen weather data that suggest that Whaleshautun isn't as bad as some people want to mean. Some also point to alternative options, e.g. minor transfers at the airport or other material that would create a lot of land together with maintaining what may be. It has also been pointed out, in fact, for years that there is considerable pollution under the airport because of the way it was built at its own time. These are the problems associated with the presence of the U.S. military force of the day and are pollution both under Reykjavík and Cheflavor airport and in the Lagunsk to name something. In all conversations to move or remove the airport, there must be some conclusion about how we clean the area and who will pay for it. This issue is hundreds or thousands of stakeholders throughout the country. Many in Reykjavík want to see the city evolve and change, many in the capital area even use the airport every week, even in some cases, as well as many people in the country who need access to the capital in many cases. This suggestion must be considered in the context of its being part of a conversation. How would it be if we settled down, took a decision, funded it, and put it to work instead of remaining on the political insistence that has now been under way for decades? Reykjavíkurburg could be negotiated with some kind of conclusion to a shorter time, even for someone with small bones in his nose in the Department of Transport who would take the cup to create a future. That's what people are after. I don't think there's a demand for another national fee where the result will be ignored, as is always done in this country. However, there is a demand for a conclusion in this matter, so we take these endless clusters of politicians who seem to want to maintain them in order to always have some language to create a separation and a polarisation at that convenient time. I'm going to finish this here with those words. I'm not convinced that this is necessarily the suggestion we need. The suggestion we need is a suggestion on this matter. I call forward that this conclusion will certainly be in the spirit of the expression in this suggestion, but let's not waste time and money on it when we are supposed to be using the time to find a final solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u58	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator like you. The problem in the current position is that in the main organization in Reykjavík, it is scheduled for the north/south airport, the main course of the field to 2022, for another two years. It falls off the main structure after more than two years according to the design if you entered it, and then the final field could in itself be found because by a single runway the new extraction rate would be somewhere in the range of 753/480%. How are we supposed to solve this? Now's the time. A senator part of political power, which is in the greater part of Reykjavíkurburg, is coming to most of the mayor's residence. What we are calling for is a clear view of how we are going to do this for the next few years, so that the temperature of the Water marshe's airport remains secure until we have found something as good or as better. Hv. In his talk, a senator entered the Washing Land. Those who happen to know the truth speak of a process that will take 13◯17 years. Does it not, then, require that this be placed in the big picture to secure the situation while further options are being considered? We can't have the airport without a major structure, that it can't be expected there after two, three years. How are we to get out of this at the same time that the city's principal organization in Reykjavík has spoken of as not standing to secure the position of NYU airport? How can you tell? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u59	Mr. President. That's exactly what I'm talking about. The national convention will not change the main organization of Reykjavík. If so, it would be entering the city's organizational authority considerably. Thus, both in the less political movement in the city and in the rest of the city, there are very special people who are likely quite ready to have a conversation about what to do, though it may be 13◯17 years, if it is at least idea what to do. What I'm calling is that there's a plan created, that there will not be just one more of the political riots about matters people are hot in a rage that prevents real decisions from being made. There are many ways to make decisions in this matter, but we are not moving closer to making decisions with this proposal. It is full in this suggestion that we should really heed, e.g. The word, that we should not move or remove the airport until then. The best way to make sure is to have a conversation with the city of Reykjavík about it. I understand completely that Reykjavíkurburg will not agree that this will be her main organization to a shorter time, while what is not to be taken over. This is part of their contract status in the same way as it is part of the contract position of those who use the airport to oppose making some changes in their status. True, at the airport the work has been a significant challenge. This is no time for landing at the airport. 23 Unless it is an emergency that is a great tribulation from what was present. After many other means, access to the airport is being limited, but it might be advisable to stop these political games, stop making political suggestions, and get some kind of courage into the Department of Transport to take a final position on what to do at the airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u60	Mr. President. I think everyone realizes that there's been a butt cut against the field for quite a while. No agreements could be made from the city since 2013 when an agreement was made in October that year. How many weeks would it take before Reykjavíkurborg agreed to agree on the mood change after the agreement at the Committee on Rackham, to consider benefits, and to go through things? Eight weeks passed. It is very difficult to envision some agreement in this whole process. Maybe you could ask. A senator: What, then, is the suggestion? How do we approach it? In a talk earlier, I pointed out what it is like in other communities around us. They have a history of this sort. We don't have it. That's why the report request comes. We are in some process where governments, executives, can't help the process against the city of Reykjavík because the last few years have been regularly cutting down the field. I think there's some reason. Congress officials speak of these matters with great simplicity, as though they were not agreements, because by the hands of the State, they may already have a strong deal with the city, and we see things step by step. The management board had a timeline on the case a few years ago and this might be interesting. A senator examines how all that process was carried out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u61	Mr. President. Hv. A senator answers his own question again. Of course, some kind of process is missing. We are so often lacking in Iceland a clear process of how things should work. I understand Reykjavíkurburg's stand, she wants to change the present Watermelon organization, and she has not been able to get answers to what the state wants to do in airports. I don't think the city sews as much to the airport as it has been done. I would've wanted a solution. When the discussion began 20 or 30 years ago - it certainly began quite earlier - it would have been useful if someone had suggested what should be done for a long time. I remember a lot of nice suggestions, but I never remember any government saying, "Yes, this is what we want. " Instead, handwork is always put in place, and every now and then there is a marked non-secular agreement, some kind of signature collection, or something that is a substitute for decision making, and an idea of what to do. What I'd like to see is that we're going to make a way and make a career, cool, but we're also going to make the highest. A secretary of transportation follows that process. Let's make some sort of solution. As soon as a solution comes, I'm pretty sure they'll be released at Reykjavíkurburg on some kind of contract. In fact, no wise person would ever agree to start by waiting forever for a solution that no one has suggested. I totally understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u62	Mr. President. It may be good for some member of the Environment and Transport Committee to speak here in these discussions about the city of Reykjavík. Since this is usually true, no matter what proposal is being made regarding the city area of Reykjavík, there will be a significant discussion that will tell the story. I think that the core point of all this talk about Reykjavík's airport is the role of the airport itself. Why is he here and what is he, and so on.? It is obvious that the role of the city capital in transport, and hence not only the way the mayor looks at that role but also how the government considers it, is making sure that there is an easy, quick way, all over the country. Some can drive this thing in half an hour, but there is a hurrying way for people to spend countless costs to the capital and back again. All capitals have such quick ways. Usually, there were railway stations, evidently very often airports. Our circumstances are that we don't have railroads, we have flights. It is the duty of capital cities to make sure that people can do exactly what I was talking about and that they don't take two hours in such a small country as Iceland is but something shorter. It's an environment too. It's also a matter of people's time, not wasting time on an 81⁄210 hour drive, and when it comes to costing it, I never get tired of reminding myself of what it really costs to drive a mile. I'm waving that 100 can be accessed by professionals, so 500 miles of driving costs 50,000 bucks. when you are at the end of the year. All of this matters when we're thinking about public transportation that is actually flying. Flight must be and public transportation is about to begin. That doesn't mean putting a BS in Kjalarnes. BSI has to be in the capital, so we can look to Hashun and ask: Is that not the future? Yes, that's what they're looking for. I would like to point out that the cost of such an international airport is 40 to50 billion at the minimum, and it will take 10 to20 years to settle the cost. Besides, there's an airport where it is. As a result, you may wonder if we could save this money or if this airport is more suitable where it is than the one possibly going to be in hell. Then I'm going to remind a meeting with an IATA who described it, and gave very good evidence that only one serious airport in Iceland, what they call port or main airport could be. Any idea of an international airport and an international airport in the Washing Landsun is theirs, as well as mine, out of the blue because that airport would never be the final airport we need. He's too close to Keflavík for that. The role of the New York Airport has been reduced as a reserve field because it can take only part of the Icelandic flight fleet. Nevertheless, he's here. But I'd like to point out that when we talk about medical flights, ferry flights, and personal flights, it's a waste of time. paritaprevir The remains of Friðbertsson, known as 700, 800, or 900 flights anticipated each year. But the flight of large helicopters is added, and large helicopters need to fly, unable to fly over densely populated areas, and landing. That's why the helicopter is at the City Hospital, where it is because we have the Fos Sogs Valley to fly around or because we want to fly over. If our large high-tech hospital is supposed to be where it's supposed to be, I'm also assuming some of the helicopters -- now I'm not talking about little helicopters that may be trying here soon, but I'm talking about the big helicopters that need a runway or a proper approach. And it's still the Reykjavík airport, to some degree. I'd like to join the security. We have to assume an emergency flight to the airport or the capital. There may be massive natural disasters, and other problems may arise. We're watching the Covid virus that could become a problem. Then we are talking about a lot of flights with people into medical institutions in the capital area. All of this should be taken into account. I heard at one time that the work at Reykjavík's airports was 1,400,1,500, and so is the work. Of course, it might move to Whalesun, but that airport is not in hand, and it may not be built at any time. All of this matters when we refer to the role of the NYU airport. This is not merely a matter of the capital planning or not or a landscape change, but it is that both the government and the mayor take into account the role of the capital when it comes to transportation. No one here is talking about taking the organizational authority from any man in the capital. It is simply being directed to the city's authorities that they assist this organizational authority in behalf of the whole community, the country as well as the city itself. There may be changes in the area of Reykjavík. Let us remember that we are looking to 50 or even 100 years of age. Who in this room can tell me how flight will develop for the next 50 to 100 years? We have to take it into account, too. We may be able to survive with a much smaller area of Reykjavík, but it should still be where it is because of its role. This is a national bill, which is, in fact, just a large poll, certainly a consultant, and it is said to be automatically ignored because it has happened before. I always find it strange when people think that way about politics and talk about the fear of experience and thus not doing this or that. We have this democratic, democratic means, to investigate public opinion in Iceland in a better way than to hire a Gallup or some such party. It is okay for such a project to be carried out, and we do not have to make your shoes ahead of time for the conclusion to be ignored, but it would be curious to examine the results. We know, of course, what these little polls have told us, that the majority of the country's population wants to have an area of Reykjavík where they live. You can also debate about the percentage, and you can also debate the level of the advisable poll here in Reykjavík, where there was 17% participation, to remind me, and the conclusion that Reykjavík's airport should be here, which would be compared to this fine national payment if it were possible. I'm not gonna say something very good, but what? paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy led to the conclusion that there was a very high level of pollution under Reykjavík. I've never seen any investigation to do that. I strongly doubt it without any research in it. Of course, the decision on the future of the city's Reykjavík airport will be made here in this room. The reason for the dispute is different from the understanding of the role of the city's airport, mentioned at the outset, where it is now. A large part of the country does not want to submit to the decision made in Reykjavík. That is why these discussions at the council will be held until the council finds another common conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u63	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for an informative discussion of this proposal, which is of great value to my judgment, and here are some interesting facts. As indicated by the suggestion, the future location of the city's Reykjavík airport has not been isolated, as we all know, and it has long since been time to stop fighting in the city of Reykjavík and try to find some way of making peace with them. I remind you that in 2001, a poll or a so - called national rage among the Smokers, so to speak, was at Reykjavíkurburg where 49% who were involved wanted the airport to leave. At that time, a mayor Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir observed that the airport was to be removed in 2016. Participation was a great deal. Then there's a question about this proposal, and only the campaign program in general, whether it's an interest among the people of the country to vote on it. That is worth considering. Also, it is interesting to wonder what happens if the results of this study become no, i.e. ... thattheairfield will not stay in the Radum. There's an airport in Whalesun, and I think it needs to be introduced in this discussion. The Secretary of Disease Control and the Mayor signed an agreement on studies on the construction of airports in Washinga test at the end of November last year. The meeting means that state and city work together for research on a new airport construction potential with the goal of achieving the full advantage of building and running a field to play the role of auxiliary, national, and airports for training and private flights. The study costs the state's budget of about 100 million. K. What may be most interesting from a political point of view is that the secretary of transportation, the head of the advance Party, signed this agreement despite the fact that the candidates had their policy that the airport should remain in the Hydromes. They concluded this material in 2018 at a party convention, and I remember that the prescription point of the resolution is not the future airport area of the future. Despite this clear resolution by the candidates, this agreement was made. It's interesting to see the outcome. It is estimated that it will take approximately One hundred fifty-five,17 years to make an airport in these parts. The second option is to continue with the South Pole airport in the Watermelon and correct the necessary tasks in those areas. It is said to cost some 25 billion dollars. However, as many as 40 to 45 billion are building a new airport in Hassuun. It is estimated that continuing development at the Keflavík Airport will cost about 160 billion dollars. The town government of Smokejanes has reasoned on these matters and called attention to several issues regarding the airport at the Washinghame. From June 2015 onward, since the airport was mentioned as an ideal option for the location of an internal flight in the results of the Commission on flying options in the capital area, this discussion has been made regularly, they say to Smokenestown, and despite the fact that five years have passed since the findings of the Commission were published, they do not seem to have answered the benefits of building an airport on this area in the middle of an unscrupulous lava that is at the same time on top and near the Southnes's water protection area, a so - called remote region. Southnesia, which has been approved by all rural areas of the region, is not expected to be a pilot in the Washingun. The town government then directed to the Southnes Congregational Committee on the matter of whether and what consequences such an airport would have for the area and also challenged the local government to ensure that representatives of the Southnesia would have access to the groups and committees dealing with the airports in which air transport would control much of the area and the location of those living there. Of course, it would have encouraged and simplified all discussion that would have been viewed to their interests in the work of a panel of airport options at the time. The town management of theleylandstown feels it strange to believe that Whaleshaun's best option for a new airport and former manager of the Chefjordian Development Society said in its time, in connection with this discussion, that the airport at Hassahuun would squeeze development in the capital area, to localize the airport five miles from around the edge of the world, that its population will be moved so close to the area that it will be discussed in the same place as in the water mines. The value under the airport will be more than the airport can give. This has been established by a so - called Rackham Committee that discussed the airport location and had four options at its time, i.e. And Essaire, and Hólmsach, and Lönark, and Hashazathun. There was an airport in the Hydromosis and at Keflavík Airport not to be considered. The conclusion was that Whaleshawn was the best option, but the best negative thing about this place was that it was close to the Cheflavor airport. I must say, Mr. President, that I am not quite aware that the state, the state's funds, will start funding such projects for about 40 billion bucks. Not to be forgotten, though, that Whaleshawd is an active geystic area, and we were reminded of it this month when a great earthquake began near Grindavík, where earthquakes and land rise were significant. We see that this approach to the airports that man has seen is by no means simple and much that needs to be considered in that subject. Personally, I don't think this option is good. I refer to the Southnes' water protection areas, costs, and the closeness of the Keflavík Airport. Almost any of the funds that should go on this project would take further construction at the Cheflavour Airport. If the conclusion of the proposed poll suggests that the airport should not remain in the Hydromosis, I would feel closer to looking at the Chefjordur airport. On the other hand, I believe that the carriers of this proposal gave very good evidence that the airport should remain in the Hydromosis. There are critical numbers listed here on hospital flights, etc. and as suggested by the proposal, all reasonable arguments fall in the direction of keeping the airport and the centre of the interior airline. If there is a change, it is vital that the people come to that decision, and I wholeheartedly agree that it is necessary. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came into his language earlier when he discussed the obligation of the capital in these matters. Of course, that is a very important argument. Since all the people can attend a service in the capital, with a relatively simple and comfortable way, it is important that this is not a personal matter to those living in Reykjavík but a matter that affects the entire population. In this respect, I count this proposal good and support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk and discussion of Þórarinsson's son. To make this right, I thought that we were in the main discussions on the national scale for the future of the city of Reykjavík airport, and I would make sure that it would be here. Hv. A member of the council was told of a decision about Whalesun, and he planned to conduct it. In my first question to the question. I'd like a senator to review the story. At the time, when men were contemplating the future of the field, it was assured that, as we have seen, it would be here until 2022, and I remind them of the then president of the Anarchy Party. paritaprevir Sigmur, Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, has taken care of that agreement; why. A senator will correct me if I'm wrong about it. Regarding the role established by the agreement between state and city, i.e. What the secretary of transportation and the mayor did was to ensure that an airport would be in the Waterstain for the next 20 years. It has also been observed in other talks that have been examined to see if it would be possible to move the field. I think the story was like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think that's what I'm talking about. A senator is actually leading the matter to a so-called Rukka committee. I don't exactly remember who came to that decision, and in itself I may not feel that this is the main point. Rather, it was a decision to examine the airports I mentioned in my speech earlier. What I feel is lacking in this discussion, and the work of that fine committee is that there was no discussion of the Cheflavor airport, whether it would be an acceptable option to build up the international airport at Keflavour Airport. Additionally, there was no discussion of the airport in the Watermelon, what its structure would be, and what the cost would be. Thus, the work of this committee was somewhat controlled by two factors that might have been the most reasonable in this regard so that they would not have been as costly as they already are in airports and constructions. However, it was decided to consider a new possibility, and the result came to be Whaleshaft, which came as a personal surprise to me. Longsacks were e.g. one option that many have found interesting. But this conclusion was in the Commission, and I thought it would be appropriate to discuss it in this context because this location is looked at if the conclusion was made in such a survey that the more part wanted the airport to leave here, and there is a need to discuss it in that context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. To make it perfectly clear, in terms of the interests of the movers, we want the airport at the Watermur first, so let's get it straight. Hv. In his speech about the leader of the party, a senator came into contact with that, the highest. The secretary of transportation, when he signed this agreement with the mayor, that the next 20 years at least It has been observed in the discussion earlier today that there are significant differences - forces within the city that certainly want the airport to leave. People have also spoken about organizational authority and such things. But how important it is to be absolutely clear in the discussion that with this agreement the airport will be here at least for the next 20 years, regardless of what happens in Whale test or how it will be all. In my opinion, the proposal we're considering here on national payment is nothing more than to guarantee it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he can agree with me that the agreement made has been a good step in ensuring that the course will remain here, for this agreement also opens up the development and development of workers in the airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. As I traced my speech, this resolution of the forwarding Council is very clear. The pack concludes that the airport will remain in the Hydromosis. Then I would have thought it natural that the head of the party had tried to negotiate some form of agreement with the city authorities that it will remain in the Hydromese. That would have seemed a logical continuation of what a party had concluded. That's why I was especially surprised at the highest. A secretary of transportation would have signed an agreement to make a special investigation of the Washasse. That means, naturally, the plan is to move the airport there, and certainly, it's just around the corner. A senator of 2022 is obviously supposed to be some sort of prodigy. Then I just remind you that Reykjavíkurburg has certain responsibilities on these matters and cannot make such a one - side decision in two years, that a runway will be shut down, making it possible for the airport to close. It is part of the city's responsibility to all to ensure that domestic flights are properly properly performed. This would have a significant effect on tourism and all the services the people need to attend to the capital area. To this end, I would have thought that a secretary of transportation would have tried to force some sort of conclusion to move the airport to stay in the depths, not to take careful research that costs money. I would've wanted to see that money fresh. There are 200 million of the public funds available for these studies. Studies were conducted many years ago in Whale test, and results were non-positive. That's why I don't think men did enough on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u68	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion and the opportunity for her. I think once again, you feel a little bit like that, some of these matters are discussed more often than others here at the council. And for good reason, this is a huge case under which the international airport should be owned in Reykjavík, or anywhere else. There's been a lot of good in this discussion, and I've been supporting the fact that the airport will be where it is. I'll agree with you when you talk about the role in security. A prominent authority in the State's role in the security of the nation, and it's always this question about whether it's talking about tearing up the organizational authority from Reykjavík; it's about that in the case of those who have spoken for leaving the city. In terms of national planning, what is to be asked. Is that what it is, e.g. Airports? Is there some specific ways that we need to share in such an organization rather than that every member of our community is able to control something that could even have a profound impact on the lives of the people of the land? I think it's one of the things we need to consider, and maybe there's more reason to discuss it here at the council if there's something we need to record and if we can do it and in what way. I have always considered the value of having the city course and the national practicality of so many things, except for the service we've been building up around the airport and that it's part of public transportation. Now we're talking about the Scottish route, and we'll see that it's moving on, I'm not talking about when the new city line becomes a reality. I hope we've come to some conclusion before that time. That, of course, is one of the things we need to build together with the way we are going to have this inner organization. In view of what you have read about it, I have had a lot of doubts about Whales. I have to say, I thought it had been canceled. It's starting to shake the ground on Smokeynes, and you're worried that it's not the best option. But will Reykjavík be the airport where he lives forever? I have no idea. I don't necessarily think so. Sadly, though, we have not been able to solve this situation. That's why this proposal's in here, I get it. Somehow, we haven't had any luck to solve this. I am deeply concerned that after two years the position will be removed from the north/south highway. As mentioned here, it takes many years to build a new field. So it doesn't change that short time is in this direction, and as we've been traced here, it's an enormous deal in terms of the state of the field, in which we're using it. I don't think we'll solve this any other way than through a conversation, I think that's just the result. Despite our failure to succeed in the past, I think that's all we can do. A city has a purpose, which is why it is a city. We only have one, Akureyri hasn't got his part yet. But I expect the state and the city of Reykjavík to come to a conclusion within this time because we also need, no matter how this will change for the future, and how long it would take us to build up a new one there. There must be some form of service and such in this area. The General and Education Committee went this morning to visit the University of Reykjavík, which is in this area, and it was interesting. They have a great plan for construction, are already building a student camp, and have a huge plan for the nucleus that would be very varied. V.E.G. The president who now sits in a chair asked just a question that was of interest when the president told us that all their development was based on the fact that the airport would remain in place, there would be no change. Some at least suggests that to the next future, to 20 years, there is what lies below. It splits people, and I'm not convinced that a national agreement will change the situation. It can, of course, give conclusions in both ways despite the fact that, as we have seen here, in a smaller survey that more of the country's population is provided by the fact that the city's area of Reykjavík is where it is and will remain unchanged. Because it's a adviser vote, it doesn't make any difference to the city. Therefore, I think that either we have to consider what national organization should serve - would it be rather something we would have to do - or, nothing or, there's always need to be under, that we need to talk better, and try to face things realistically. We'd have to watch at least Twenty years ahead and say: Okay, there's no country here for the next 20 years to be used except under an airport and a building that needs to be there to serve this airport, and from that point on, we're going to aim. I hope we can take this further than has been, and that ministers who come to these matters will, too. It's creating gaps between city and country to keep scrambling about it all the time, and that's why I think we have to land. The time is now because it is so short that the next decision will be made, with enormous consequences for the field and its use. It's interesting what's being traced into the report with this, it's going a little bit through the story we may know, but it's pointed out that during the last council, this case was delivered, and 21 reviews were received, where a vast majority of the rural communities were supported by their organization in support of the proposal presented here, i.e. that the people could and should have thought of this. It was only Reykjavíkurburg that opposed it. But I'm not sure that this, however, is the best way because she doesn't make anything new for us. We're still in the same position, really no matter what the national decree is about to take place. Even if the result was decisive, it does not change the conversation, whether it works out well or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u69	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the important discussion taking place here regarding the future of the city of Reykjavík. I especially want to thank you. paritaprevir The Njáll of Friðbertsson for his sincere and keen interest in this matter, the rest of the children who are born in this fine body of Congress. Many comments have been made during the discussion. I was going to establish only what is primarily related to the country in this matter. We've built things up now, so in this city, all of us, or almost all of the public government that belongs to an Icelandic nation, should we try to make it easier for the inhabitants of the country to attend these services by various means. To me, flying is one of the main and most important factors in the fact that as many people of the country can take advantage of the services available here. We can make sure that in the autumn or early autumn, the so - called Scottish way will be carried out. It is designed primarily for the use of air transport by those living in the country. As a result, it is very important that we have the airport nearing the administrative level of this city, i.e. in the Mysterious Sea. This discussion has discussed the agreement recently made by the secretary of transportation and the mayor, in which the future of the airport is guaranteed for the next 20 years, and as a result, an investigation will take place at the intended airport level in the Washing test. In my view, this agreement has further established the future of the airport in the Hydromosis. It opens up the possibility that workers can finally be built up in the Watermelon, which is certainly not unnecessary. I hope this council proposal gets a turn-up here within the council, and I believe that, as indicated by the proposal, the majority of the people agree with their authority as well as with those on the case that we are trying to secure the airport as the longest in the Hydromur. Hv. paritaprevir In its history, Trausti Friðbertsson came in and went out a little bit, if we can say that, when he started discussing the infrastructure. The country's airports are naturally a major factor in transport infrastructure, and then we can look at the airports in a country that has quite a few. If we start with Akureyri, we'll go. A senator both lives at the Eyjafjordur, and we're supposed to link this whole thing to itself. We're supposed to do even more, and we're going to increase our efficiency in ensuring construction at these airports, for the benefit of the people, and for the benefit of those who want to return to their country. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir came in earlier that there's been some debate about whether the airport is supposed to be in the Watermur, or not, and certainly we need to have that conversation, and we have to deal with the city authorities as well that it can be. I now believe that when the majority of the people want him there - I hope I'm right and I can give it to them, if this council proposal comes up - they will accept it. It is very important in everything that lies ahead. We'll see how this develops, all these factors we have, people are on the move, and in the future it's likely to be that people will come for even greater use of the flight, e.g. with the development of the Scottish route, for flight is the safest way to travel. Although the weather may be depressed and otherwise, it has happened more often than not in the winter that the only way that it can be done between us, e.g. Reykjavík and Akureyri are the route. The same can be said of Egls. This underscores how important the future of the Aviation Airport in the Hydromes is in view of all that we have to attend here, all the work we have built up on this country. Then we can take our songs into the cross and see to it that some say, "Let's take the field away." Well, then, we locals have said: "All right, move the airport, but then you will also perform all public services near that airport. I think then there'll be some other sound coming from those who want the airport away if the services that are inevitable here would, for example. Take the airport. I don't expect that to happen, but it's the view that the neighborhood of the construction at the Land Hospital is so important, and then it's really important. In the report, a senator does a fine job when it comes to the hospital flight. All of this needs to be delivered. I'm just going over and over again, although I'm not very fond of kissing my Trausti, Friðbertsson, but I'm going to do it, to thank my friend for moving on. There's a lot of good guys. Congress officials on this matter, and I hope so much that they will be able to get ahead and get on with their therapy, and we'll take the next step, and we'll work on it. The Watermelon airport has been secure for the next 20 years. Let's move on and take some more steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u70	A respectable president. I want to be like some other members of the council to thank you for the discussion that has been conducted here. Of course, not all have specifically accepted the point of the proposal in the narrowest sense. Rather, it has traveled in many ways around the world, centered on public transportation, air travel in the country at all, the Scottish way, and so forth. Things have been reasonable, and I don't agree with all of that, but everything's fine. There's one thing that interests me when you look at the list of carriers of this proposal, i.e. that the traders are first and last members of Congress not members of the city of Reykjavík, outside one, and then there's a hit by members of the Southwestern Parliament. Otherwise, it is up to a group of members of the country, and it certainly contains a message. It's as if there's some kind of tension in it, let's say, between capital and national. I've counted myself, and I'm friends with the airport in Wateramamur. I'd like to keep the airport going. In fact, I can say this despite having prepared his flight line for the past 20 years and being able to keep some precise number on how many planes fly over a day, especially in the days I am not at work. I'm one of those people this doesn't bother at all. I know some of my neighbors do something about this, but it's just as it is, people are different. It's important to me that there's an airport in Reykjavík, but that doesn't mean I want to force the company of Reykjavík to keep the airport exactly where it belongs. There is a conflict between planning and planning of the rural communities and perhaps in other ways a legal fixation of local society's affairs. I ask: If we as a community were thus cast into the organization in this way, where should we stop at? Would anyone agree that we would have to say that Reykjavík had to build national stadiums at some particular place like Saturday's Palace? It would have to build a new national stadium because it would now be the national stadium and everyone would have to get there to watch sports events, etc., would that be fair? Because it is so important to travel out of the city, and it is vital that, as some may think, we direct the city in that direction. Should we leave it to the Seminar, National Parking Area? That could be a long count, and I know what to do. The senators see exactly what I'm going to do, that the discussion is in my mind larger than what turns to the airport. Perhaps again regarding that matter: In 2001, I and many of my neighbors felt that it was odd - what we could call it - that we did not vote because we happen to live on the other side of the Fosön. But we accept it. Yes, because there was a selection of organizational matters in Reykjavík. That was just the way it was, and we have to face it. It may, however, be slightly different when we think of an area that we would call the peoples. Let us take an uncontaminated place somewhere, and we can wonder whether the inhabitants of another country should be more involved, likely because there are no residents in that area. Take, for example, the lake glacier. Although no one lives in a lake farm, Reykjavík's airport is located in the middle of an apartment site and the surrounding residence area has been restricted by the airport. But again: I am a follower of having the field where it is. I think it matters. But I think the conclusion of this matter may not necessarily be received by that vote. I think the results of this matter are much more likely to be found in a conversation between the government and the city of Reykjavík. If you believe that the state of state is not at the bottom of that discussion, with all the polls that have been conducted through the history of national will, I don't quite know what has changed so much in society. These talks need to be conducted. The Kingdom cannot take up the organizational authority of the rural communities unless there is a great need. In fact, there are laws to do so. I'm absolutely aware that the course should be in Reykjavík, but it has to be negotiated between its members.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u71	Mr. President. Hv. A senator entered the election in Reykjavík, 2001, about Reykjavík, where statistics were such that 37% of the elections were involved. 19% wanted the course to reach 2016 and 18% left. There were 300 votes between here and there. It was kind of a tie. What changed in the rules was that there were some basic numbers behind it if it was to be valid; there would need to be some participation and a certain percentage. Then, in the historical context, the rules were changed. It is important that this be maintained because it has actually not done the way it went for the election, on what basis. Then they've played from there and changed the rules afterwards. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: I've never been able to compare basic wood in security terms as well as national arenas or other things that don't have the same weight on the basis of security. You can't compare these two. I can point it out. A senator says that some years ago I examined how people traveled between Akureyri and Reykjavík. It was very interesting. High to 40%, but the other 60% drove if looked over the year. But the most interesting thing is that during the four to five winter months, when the weather is too bad, when it's dark, 65% is being driven. This is just to show how important these factors are to the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to Njáll, Friðbertsson of Trausti. I didn't get much into the results of the local vote that took place in Reykjavík, which was held 20 years ago. I think that's old news, I'm afraid. If we are going to build on it now, we may not be working in our time. But about what the senator asked about, the one with the medical flight and security, I agree completely with the senator. That's one of the reasons why I believe that the airport will remain in Reykjavík. Like what? A senator knows that I have lived in the country for several years, and I have worked there, including We've landed several times at the Reykjavík airport in a medical flight. So I know very well how important the course can be in this regard. Of course, my attitude toward the field is shaped in part. However, my stand does not allow me to want to step on the local community or at least only if an agreement is not reached. So far, we have been able to come to an agreement between the state and the company of Reykjavík in this matter, and we may wonder whether it should address the entire area of the capital. In the large context, the location of this blessed airport is of importance to all capital citizens and to the entire organization of the capital area. But that's another story.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u73	Mr. President. I've been discussing this security role today in general with the medical flight, but there's not a lot of talk about a backup airport. This can be corrected as a mistake. paritaprevir In his first talk, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson said that it was not clear enough that the Social Security Committee of the Icelandic Professionals has tried to promote that it is not right to reduce the value of Reykjavík's airport as a reserve for certain machines, as it has been done. It has been recalculated, so that role has been restored to that stage. There's a little loose in the conversation about a spare airport. We haven't talked about it much in the winter, but sometimes in the past, we have an enormous amount of air traffic, and we are expected to come in 141⁄215% of the nation's currency income today. Then it's surprising how little attention this will get in the big context as you look at the security issues. That was the discussion about the Maxs that started this, i.e. that Reykjavík's airport could not meet them, but the security committee of the Icelandic professional airline has tried to make it appear that it plays an important role in these machines. Although they have only flown a recent year, the role is large and large, I think, 80% of them are taking off Icelanda in Keflavík as a reserve airport. It's in all the fliers. We haven't talked about it, but since we're discussing this material, it's so far in the context of the importance. The report mentions a report by a former pilot, Þorgeir, Pálsson's son, in 2017. It speaks of the importance of two airports being in the southwestern corner of the country as a security issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u74	Mr. President. I agree with that. A senator that it is important that we do not have a reserve airport anywhere on the other side of the country. I think the Senator's right. That is why the senator's wisdom has expressed the question in such a way, i.e. Until another equally good or better option is ready for use. This may be the key point of this class. Senator. But as I mentioned earlier in my speech, I am not convinced that this lunch is needed in our negotiations with the city, that it is necessary to bring government and government down to the bottom of these negotiations by national law. These polls have repeatedly shown that much of the nation wants this airport to be in Reykjavík - nothing more complex than that. It should be the fundamental part of the government's role when it is making a deal with the city or capital authorities, as if it were more reasonable in this matter. If the airport were to move from the Watermelon to another location in the vicinity of Reykjavík, it might well be known. A senator as well as I that we are about to cross the country border of Reykjavík as soon as we move on to something in the neighborhood, and other rural areas would have to arrive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u75	A respectable president. I'm going to try not to discuss materially whether an airport should remain in the Hydromosis or not because I want to talk about direct democracy and national pay, as is the suggestion we're discussing today. First, I'd like to say that I will support the three recommendations: first, that it will be binding, not knowing to do so, that it will be implemented, and that it will be in accordance with its own decision-maker. Now I have to mention again today, unfortunately, the third energy package. It was a very hot subject that was discussed for a very long time, as the senators remember, and there was something about signing against that language and the social appeal for national pay. [[Up front.]] The Pirates'company suggested that we keep such national pay on the third energy package, and because we at the council did not know if they would be approved or not prepared to make any changes in that matter in case the proposal might be accepted. If the pack decided that the third energy package should be held, we would submit the adjustment. That was despite the fact that Porta's members were not all aware that such a national law should be kept. I am, for example. not to think it should have been done, but I would have suggested in my own name a change in the third energy package that it should have kept a binding national law if the party had decided it was the way we wanted to go. Except, the proposal was made by the group, so we didn't make the adjustment. As a result, we set out a policy so that if 10% of voters submit their signatures that they want a national bill for some subject, the Porrata Party will submit and/or support the adjustment of the proposal that the proposal or bill that is used for the treatment of an assembly will be set up in a national law. This is now an approved class policy. I believe we've proven ourselves to be a direct democracy, and we're paying national fees, we want them to be carried out on a responsibility, and we want the nation's will to be respected. All of this is the most direct route from the bill to the new constitution that I'm going to discuss later, in particular, 67th par. That's a good bill. This has been shown to be about 70,000 signatures for staying at the Watermelon airport That's according to the website landing. It reviews how these signatures have been confirmed. Now I'm not in a position to decide permanently whether such a collection is done or not, so there is no formal process to do so today, i.e. beyond the institutions who decide to collect themselves, in this case The Heart of the Water mares But this is the best we have. As far as I can see, these signatures are legitimate, 70,661 pieces, which have come according to the website, and I find sufficient democratic support for the National Remuneration to support this case, a project, to give the adjustment I will suggest in the following and in my own independent transition. The problem with the situation today is three. First, it's not binding. Authorities will ignore the results. We know this because the authorities have so far ignored the decision of national law when they want to do so. When authorities do not want to carry out their conclusions, they ignore the results. This may be because we are taking the democracy as a matter of course an object in this country, while, as in the Kingdom of Britain, it is not possible to ignore the results of national law, even when there is as much involvement as there is in the EU as we know. Second, this council proposal does not follow guidance on the next steps. It is good and blessed to have the view that airports are still to be in the depths of the water, as well as to be blessed with the view that they are leaving, but some guidance must be made on the next steps. What's to be done? What should the Minister do? What will the Council do? What in Reykjavík? Is anyone supposed to do something? And what is it? There's nothing missing in the Senate resolution. Realistically, it is either necessary to assign a minister to the city of Reykjavík for the continued untimely existence of the airport or to take up the City of the Organization over this area. This leads me to the third problem, which is the exact, self - determination court of the city of Reykjavík. He's still there, and no one here has proposed a bill to take him away from the city of Reykjavík, as if it were quite careful, I think, especially from groups that have kept the cortical talks on the importance of their private rights of rural society. That's where I think the knife's in the cow. That's what I think is the problem with this case, and that's why I think this case is presented as a conquistador of national law rather than simply intended to take up the city of Reykjavík by itself. They know as soon as they look at the matter, that it needs to be done or made with Reykjavík. It's just the two options. I don't object to self-employed rural society in general. I can imagine a situation in which it might be justified. I don't think Reykjavík's airport can get close, especially because this area and its use also includes the marvelous interests of Reykjavíkurburg, not only those who use the airport and live in the country, especially in densely populated areas. By the way: Strength is not a pet project, it's very important, including In fact, for the safety of people, environment, and other factors that I would now leave the Council of Porta to explain to others, as we have seen, the decision will ultimately be about what Reykjavíkurborg decides, in line with her own decision. This is why I don't want to have a material opinion about whether the airport is supposed to be or not. This belongs to Reykjavík. We're not here to discuss whether the airport will stay in Reykjavík, in Watermur, or not. This matter of Congress isn't even about it. It's about keeping a national law on that question and, as I say, not a counselor, it's unexploited and on the part of a community's own rights if they're supposed to translate something over their heads. That's the problem. Yet, I do not want to give another sermon of pedigree and bring it solutions. Actually, it is a very small problem to adjust the suggestion so that it meets all these basic conditions in my opinion, that it is binding, implemented, and respected the private rights of my community. It is by altering it some way that the Council of the Council of Transport and Regional Affairs conclude that a contract with the city of Reykjavík would be made with the untimely continuation of the Watermier airport. Conclusions take place in a national law that should be carried out in accordance with the laws concerning national pay, despite the endnotes of 1 mg. 1st par. Their law. This is, in my opinion, a neat solution which would make it possible to accept the proposal here at the council and leave the authority permanently behind in the hands of the voters for the next step and the next step would be well defined. The Minister of Transport and Foreign Affairs would be charged with enforcing these agreements with the city of Reykjavík. As I mentioned earlier, the only way I can do this is by removing the city of Reykjavík from its organization over this area. Good luck trying to get it through, I still use sarcasm, because I think that would go bad. In fact, I would hope that it would work out because a community's self-determination right is supposed to be great and should be respected, and not just when it's convenient and not just when it suits everyone, but it is the basis for the self - determination right of society, which I believe, according to the constitution, is the basis of its own personal rights. In the closing minute, I'd like to review only the fact that the solutions to all of this are actually found in the bill for a new constitution, specifically specified in Article 67. the bill that is the latest, the bill based on the Council of Control. It discusses the matter of Congress with the voters' initiative. It shows that 2% of voters can present a bill or a proposal for interpretation at the General Assembly. It wouldn't need 70,000 signatures, it'd take 2%. Then they would probably just get their political treatments. But not only that, but 10% of the voters can present a bill to be passed at the Council. Then we will discuss how the trial would be handled. A national bill on that bill can then be given according to the conditions outlined there. We are often here discussing some problem that we are going to solve with some discussion, some suggestions like these when the solutions are in front of us, have been that long, and all we have to do to solve such a matter is to listen to what the voters themselves have told us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u76	A respectable president. We will discuss a Synod proposal for a national payment on the future of the city of Reykjavík airport. I'm not one of the council ministries and I don't support it, simply because I don't think it's designed to solve the problem that already exists in the future of the Radiant Airport. As a matter of fact, I think that's what it is. paritaprevir Also, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, who spoke ahead of me, does not have the answer, saying that a new constitution somehow helps solve the problems that exist about the future of the Watermies Airport. For a long time, I had the idea that an airport in the capital area could be nowhere but in the Hydromosis. But I've accepted the fact that the airport will not be in the water swamp all day long. It's just been decided. So to me, it's a matter of ensuring that the airport is operating in the Watermelon until another equally good or better option is ready for use. Now I direct the wording of the question as a question. Senators suggest this arrangement, and I think the big issue is really about it. It's been described here, and I think everyone knows the problem that has existed in an airport between Reykjavíkurburg and the government on the future of the international flight and the future of the airport. Unfortunately, we have been able to do all we can to be at odds about where the airport was best down, yet there is still an amazing amount of work that has gone into trying to find a new location for the airport. Perhaps we are not necessarily at the bottom of this, but we are taking steps to test it. That's exactly right, like what's wrong. Friðbertsson A new airport can never begin without much preparation and considerable preparation and construction, and the cost at its disposal. That is why I think it is important, of course, that the person who wants to get rid of the airport, in this case in Reykjavík, also needs to realize that he may have to be at some other level of construction at an airport somewhere else. I wanted to come up here and describe my view that although I don't support the proposal, because I don't think it would bring us some solution in this problem, it is still a very good stage to bring up the discussion of the situation. We can best see this in the discussion that has taken place here today, and perhaps not least to point out the importance of ensuring that the airfield in the Hydromycin works until another option is ready for use. I've been on the point of making a pact of the highest. A secretary of transportation to Reykjavíkurburg guarantees it. But it is true that Reykjavík's main organization assumes that the airport will depart. Consequently, it is absolutely necessary for the city of Reykjavík to react and change the main structure according to that agreement. I'd also like to declare it, because there's a lot of debate about whether it's taking in some way an organization of the countryside, that I've long spoken about the importance of infrastructure, which is important to the nation and can be classified as national security, to be somehow loyal in a national organization. That's why I'm one of the carriers for a report request as a matter of course. Friðbertsson Our national security makes a major difference to us as well as a review of the construction or construction of the building. Despite the high regard for local planning and the independence of rural society, I still believe that there are some projects, some monuments by which it cannot be established in a national organization or determined in any other way than that it is only at the table in that particular community. I have specifically mentioned in this variety of means of transportation. There may be roads or harbours, and there may be airports. I'm not saying that it is, but there may be some airports, and such is, for example. so with our international airport, and less electrical. They're these structures that often run between rural society and rural society, and communities are often forced to accept it. Of course, this needs to be arranged at a certain point, but I've spoken of the solution to important core structures that have national security to make it permanent in a national organization. I don't doubt that there may be some complicated issues, and people have different opinions, and they just have to take them once and for all, and tie them down. In spite of my keen desire to bring up a discussion about this important matter, which is the air level in the Hydromosis and its future, I intend to allow myself to doubt that a national agreement was in order to resolve a problem that is in a hurry, but nevertheless restate my position that it is important that we make sure that the airfield in the Hydromese is not going anywhere until another option is ready. To me, it doesn't need a national bill. It is national security. We need to protect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-25-64.u77	Mr. President. I'd like to finish with a few points that are involved in this discussion. Just before that, 70,000 signatures were collected, the Heart in Watermelon, 2013, U.S.A., where 70,000 signatures were collected. About 22% of the Soviets signed, 28% of Iceland's voters wrote their name on that subject at the time. There's never been so many signatures in a collection of signatures, it was just five weeks. I'm talking about, whether in this case or a report request for the basic construction and security of the country, national security interest, that we really need to set up this organization. The Swedes have their own national structure, therefore I insert the infrastructure into it, and then they have this term for their legislation that reminds me of the 1960's. These discussions have been far and wide, but some solutions are missing, if humans cannot accept them. Here's an attempt to get the people's will out. It was a signing collection in its time, and I think so many signatures in such a short time reflect a very clear will. The reports in the media have been very clear and have been doing so for decades and years. A specific tone of agreement is presented here by referring to the fact that the airport will be in place until it is as good or as better to be found. So is the suggestion for the national arrangement, and it has a strong conjugal tone. What is now the problem, however, is that being the field in the Watermelon is guaranteed only in the main organization until 2022, which is just starting. In this discussion, it has been observed that it would take 13◯17 years to set up a new field in the Bassahun with all that comes with it. So there's a contrast. What I'm worried about is the contract that was made about Whalesun, the benefits of it, and whether it was possible for us to set up an airport there, it is stated that it is not wanted at Reykjavík, New York, to ensure that the state of the field is still in the main structure. So the main organization is not to be changed. As an old platoon leader, I've been conducting organizational matters, and I know they'd be a monster. If that doesn't work out, I don't know what they're gonna do in two years to take them step by step. This must be explained in all this discussion. That's the big point and the problem of this case, that you can't put up with it and the meeting laws that have been made recently to try to make peace with some process, and that other things just haven't been right. Hence, there have been certain butts against the airport all these years, especially during the last six, seven years. It's constantly gone against him. At the same time, whether it is the hospital flight or just transportation, we all know its importance. It has been estimated that if the international flight occurred, e.g. Moving to Keflavík Airport would result in a reduction of 30 to40%. This would give all the grounds for domestic flight, as we know it today. That the domestic flight would be the strongest blow the country could ever be hit. It would be a huge blow to the region if the international flight fell. When I'm at a council, I live in the West Side of Reykjavík. I'm in the city in itself, a downtown rat, as the senator says. [[Taken out in midtown rat.]] I'm eight minutes late for the council. I had done this for two, three weeks when I began to perceive why many people don't see the importance in the big movie. When I walk those eight minutes along the Tjörn, the old cemetery, and the West Side, everything goes the same way. I have the University of Iceland next to me, and more or less all the government of the country. I have the hospital, which takes all the most difficult cases of the country in a ten- and a half-mile walk from me. It's all part of the same thing. This is what you are often trying to point out in the discussion so that people can understand the vastly different conditions in which people live on this challenge live compared with those who live elsewhere. Our witnessing work also showed that there was a huge difference in who signed and who did not. In the eastern part of Grafarvogi, and farther away, there was much greater support for the airport. The difficulty I personally live on today was the least support, and there is a man walking with all the services. I think the understanding of the great context of things just isn't quite there. You can discuss this forever, but just at the end, I want to thank you for the discussion. Hopefully, it will guide us and hopefully the case will be referred to an environment and transport committee for further discussion.
