ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u1	President. In fact, we are taking on a huge, drive - and - force situation here, the largest action plan that has been introduced on Icelandic agriculture and food production in the past. The issue is about one of the nation's main work parts, which have been in serious trouble for some time now, but especially now the need is being made to meet this level of employment. But this suggestion does more. It sets out a plan for development for the European agriculture and food production for the future. The article is picked up from many sources at the same time. I'll give you a few things. First, there are a number of regulations that have to be met by European agriculture, and the number of countries that provide high costs and costs for the article is often and often without any similar charge being placed on the article in other countries, in neighboring countries, at least. not to the same level. This, of course, is the competitive situation of the article and has resulted in considerable expense for many farmers and other food producers. Second, the report has not been well handled recently, and it has not been responded to, as it were, that has since the arrival of agricultural agreements, and that they agreed on, no matter what was felt about them as they were in their time. Third, it is clear from the policy of this government and has been since its introduction to financial and financial policies, that there is only one branch in the country where governments assume that they will progressively shrink and receive less donations, which is agriculture. During the future vision for other employment projects, the more or less funded articles in the state are one exception to the Icelandic agriculture. Fourth, it is a toll agreement made with the European Union in 2015. I'm just gonna have to mention how it came about. I was so surprised when this contract was signed by a local agricultural minister that I still remember where I was. I was driving in Hunsak County, approaching Gauksamur, when I first heard it on the radio, and I think it was the same thing about the other Government Minister at the time, that this contract had been completed quickly and signed directly in the afternoon. It is very important to review this contract, as I shall follow, and particularly in present circumstances to delay the intervention of tollovians, which can be expected today in November. Fifth, it has been authorized to import raw non-frosh meat and unsolved foods. This is not only a matter of industry, employment security, and income in Iceland but also a matter of health care, as many health experts in that field tried to point out warnings about the effect of attacking this opening. It has become even more urgent in the past or at least There is evidence from countries that this may have been due to some extent to antibiotic resistance due to the excessive use of antibacterial agents in foreign food. In the sixth, the rate of increase in crops has been steadily reduced by a number of years. Seven: The effects of the Prepandemic Korean virus, which has resulted in very significant sale, are added. At the same time that we at the council are very much concerned with the proposals of the government - we discuss its proposals rather than a position of government, so it is now just -- and we will discuss how the government wants to meet the various sectors that have not yet met this industry that has been very alert to defend and applied from many sources, as I traced here. It presents a view of agriculture that suggests that governments are not particularly optimistic about the future of this article and that they are not even sure if it is a trade or something else. Of course, you fear that such attitudes may be exasperating in the management system at the same time that the article needs support. The competition for foreign production is of particular concern, of course. Now, as I am about to increase the import of foreign food, because of the things I'm referring to, there is an Icelandic agriculture that is all of these involved, all the costs I mentioned, to compete with agricultural production and food production in countries that do not follow the same rules, where large industry is even a rule, rather than an exception, a factory where antibiotics are used in great quantities, and the branch is the State's strength, as is the nature of agriculture in many countries, but in all ways other than here. The Icelandic farmers in the family farms have to compete with the giants in foreign countries that employ labor in many cases, which in many cases would not be acceptable at all in Iceland, using methods such as this drug I mentioned, and achieving vast size benefits by running it as a sort of industry. Would it be expected that some other profession would be as successful as expected by Icelandic agriculture? I don't think governments simply considered it possible to treat other jobs as unfair in working conditions, in terms of government support, in competitive foreign countries. There are various employment issues in comparison, stressing that the countries we are involved in are meeting the same criteria as in Iceland. When it comes to a foreign labor force, we expect it to be the same as the rest of the country, but this trade is designed to compete with labour at the minimums of the factory farms in foreign lands. Agriculture support and agricultural contributions have fallen for a very long time in proportion to national production, but the government is now reminding us to discuss matters in this context. When we talk, for example. on the growth of the stall, it has been pointed out that, compared with the increase in land production, there has not been so much growth. What, though, about the share of agriculture in government expenses? This share has steadily declined and may now be half a percent of the land's production, or about one - eighth of what may have been 30 years ago. Yet, this article plays a vital role in maintaining a country's population, building up other sectors, creating tourism, creating wholesome and good food for the population, and saving money so that this investment of half a percent of the land's productions actually results in a far greater recovery. The situation today under the pandemic calls for special action because it sets the article in another challenge with the use of products, but it can be said that there is also a special opportunity, since in this situation, countries throughout Europe have shown that they are prepared to take measures to protect their jobs, their jobs, their jobs, and their employees and farmers, including, by means of specific measures that would have been possible in other circumstances. raises some questions about the European Union and its rules. But under these circumstances, it has only been shown that humans have been allowed to do so; outside this, human action has been possible. So this is the time to respond and meet Icelandic agriculture. The need is obvious, but also the opportunities and possibilities of government rights to take action in such situations. Icelandic agriculture was to enjoy the benefits when the country's economic situation followed by the bank collapse. I and others described it at the time, when we were working on a very massive effort to reverse the economy, that articles such as agriculture and food production would have to endure with us, but then they'd get results when they recovered. And the result was quite remarkable, the most economic reversal ever seen by any state, but it has in no way been returned to Icelandic farmers. In fact, the comparison with other classes is striking. We've seen a record-breaking increase in commercial power, positive cooling development in Iceland these years with one exception to the farmers, the food producers, who have been completely out of control in this regard. Of course, groups such as older citizens who have not been restored as an option might be mentioned, but in terms of operating classes, farmers seem completely different in terms of not being able to enjoy the better things society has experienced in the past few years. It would be very difficult to resolve the current development of Icelandic agriculture, as unfortunately there is a serious danger. It would also be much more expensive to the community than to take action in time. Therefore, it is time and time for drastic action to be taken, and they present us here in this large concierge of environmental food production and a safe and predictable environment of agri-environment. These are drastic suggestions, but there is also reason to offer drastic suggestions. That is what is needed to deal with the situation we face. I can see that it's getting pretty fast with me, so I won't be getting into this talk at least. tracking all the factors that appear in this big proposal. They are 24 in all, along with a more detailed report. I'll maybe. have the opportunity to discuss them below or at a later time. But I hope the council is ready to accept this proposal, discuss it, speeds up her progress at the council. Of course, we will receive comments and comments on what may be more beneficial from members of the council and especially from farmers or others who work in food production. It's an operation, it's a plan that's going to have to work. We can't see any Icelandic agriculture coming out of this situation when the attention of the Covid epidemic and the response to it and many large cases are forgotten, cases that had become urgent, cases that we should have handled long ago here at the council, but few are as urgent and as large as relevant to our country's future, and to prevent further damage in Icelandic agriculture and to build up the article. If this temporary situation exists today, this country's basic work will fade away, the damage to Icelandic society will be permanent. They're in place, they just need to be used, so we're telling them in this council plan. It needs to get through fast and get paid, since there is no time to save and build Icelandic agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u2	V.E.G. President. I come up here to follow your lead. paritaprevir The crew of Gunnlaugsson Gunollon's crews on this synonym's proposal for the massive increase in domestic food production and the safe and predictable environment of agrienvironment. We are all members of the Central Party of this matter and including the one here. This is a big, important issue to promote and build agriculture and get it to the place it fits into. I'm a member of the Northwestern mountain district, which is a large agricultural sector, and there's a lot of opportunities to continue building agriculture if the situation allows. The wide and wide range of agricultural features is very varied. We were at a meeting of some senators at the National Institute of Agriculture in the Netherlands these days, and it was very encouraging and encouraging to be at that meeting and to find out what the school is doing to the students who intend to become farmers, no matter what type of farming it is. It has a high tone of growth in vegetable production, and it is a very exciting time ahead. I just wanted to kill on some of the items that are presented in this proposal, as was shown by the prime minister, 24 points. First, I would like to mention points No. 7 where it is stated that the Convention of Agricultural Ministers from 2015 with the European Union will be submitted or requested a review of this procedure in terms of the European Union eviction of the British. This is a natural thing that must either have to be overreached or canceled, this contract, because of the changes we have to make. Later in the report, you will discuss the surveillance at home, but food import control has been found to be breaking. The person here had this in a special discussion the other day, which was a very good discussion, and is hopefully scribbling into the holes or reefs that have formed in a very small number of food imports, on the exports of Europe and on the return to Iceland. It also says that the import of non-unioned meat, eggs, and unbound foods will be stopped because of its special status and importance of food and food safety. This has often been discussed with the unfrost meat and eggs because of health, and it is unnecessary to discuss them much more here. It should be clear to every person that we can completely manage our productions for consumption here at home without especially importing it in this way. It says that studies will be carried out on the use of natural materials, such as algae and calcium, for the production of manure. This article highlights the growth of algae and the production of algae, where there is great potential and is being prepared for it. So this job needs to be done research, putting this job on your feet. Besides, it is the good old delivery security of electrical energy that will ensure that there will be a loss of food production throughout the country as little as possible. For some reason, we have not been successful in ensuring the delivery of electricity to the best possible outcome in last January when a large part of North and West countries became powerless and on the West. There are some things that would not have to be disturbed by the fact that this is the old equipment that was going crazy out there, e.g. the structure of the ligands. It's very simple to do, but it hasn't been fixed all over right now, should not be a big deal. Then there is the competitiveness of domestic agriculture against foreign production, which should have further use of domestic energy resources and provide opportunities for competitive farming practices in line with the proposals of members of the Central Group which were recommended at the 147th legislation Council, which was a very good case. Time goes fast, and I can't get over all of this, but I'd also picked it up at home, that it's permitted, what's called a microchip house. It's something that's been a lot of talk in the council but hasn't caught up, is always in a course. It's not a big deal. It's actually just a matter of EES regulations. Then, when people go out in Europe and buy the best and the most fancy meat, it is even localised, so we seem to be more Catholic than the Pope in applying such regulations, and in this Regulation it is mainly being looked at by veterinarians in this field. I believe that if a house of Homewrecks, or a runt house, or whatever we call it, it'll get on its feet and get out of the country in general, it'll increase the independence of farmers in producing their food. They will be traceable and consumers will be able to determine what this farmer is coming from, and the farmer is a bit responsible for what he is getting for his product, this is from the local situation. I have strong faith that if there were more to be done, this would strengthen the independence and self - esteem of farmers and thus increase their income. Finally, food is often referred to as very expensive in Iceland, but it says: ▪ The main problem in this country is that in comparison with neighboring countries, such food is expensive. If you have a right and reasonable comparison (for remuneration, assembly of animals, quality, loyalty, drug use, etc.) the production of Icelandic food can easily conclude that its prices are not unreasonable, but are not unreasonable. So this talk about the use of Icelandic agriculture is not valid. It just shows itself when you go to the store that you don't. V.E.G. President. Because I was talking about customs monitoring, I'd like to remind you of the previous report request that was accepted by all paid protocols on the assessment of the tax function in the implementation of customs. It is urgent that this matter be resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u3	Mr. President. I am a co-sponsor at this proposal for the resolution of gross domestic food production and the certain predictable environment of agri-environment, which is, of course, an issue that has been in this country for years and decades. Still, we look up in local agriculture to see that farmers cannot live on their farms in very many cases and in certain branches, so this seems to be an ongoing problem in trying to strengthen and strengthen the agriculture. But things aren't all that black out there. Of course, there are many farmers who support their business in a number of other ways that I may come to do the same. But there is a big difference, such as. Agriculture and fishing roads in this respect. Seafood infrastructure has built its careers to sailors and producers and people on great developments, innovations, research and use of agricultural products, and is the working structure of the marine road with the best of the world's best, I think. On the other hand, farming has been under attack, and I wondered why. Why can't we build up some land around here that's self-sustained and we can be proud of? I think, for example. to progress in agriculture, i.e. The research and innovation, the innovation of produce, and the attempt to get the most out of the products, have failed as often as they would have been tried. Of course, the sheep, if we take it out of parentheses, are not very productive domestic animals, not being talking about the sheep's meat production, these are not many kilograms produced in one year, relative to the type of effort required and must not be determined by other species or large productions that occur in other countries, even in this same species, as in New Zealand. We live in the harsh wintertime, and most of the farm animals need to be housed over much of the year, giving them their own food at the appropriate cost of living and the cost of food, so it is difficult to do so. This proposal goes on and on, trying to improve and provide further support for agriculture as soon as possible. Of course, all of us, I think, will keep the whole country inhabited and will not be able to look up, as in the last few decades, every settlement, every valley, and each county after another, in reality, lie desolate. They're still watching today. The number of nests is rising rapidly in certain areas. We must resist. We cannot be known for planning to solve the problem by moving in here industrialized products, agricultural products produced by big populations in many other weather conditions, from disease sources, from drugs, hormones, all kinds of genetic variables, etc. Most of these weapons to increase the yield of our farms have not been used for various reasons, e.g. for health reasons. We can't be known for allowing this import unregistered, the next thing, to this country to kill our small agriculture still in the country. We must cherish this production. I was going to mention what farmers themselves have done. They have developed many additional jobs and new opportunities, indeed. I think that there are not many sheep farmers who live in sheep only if they are much bigger, which is not so common at all. As for the import that has increased in recent years, we've been discussing it at the council for the past few weeks, it's been so now, I'm told, for example. The import of beef, yet for dinner, results in the days when farmers cannot get rid of their beef. The slaughterhouse is queued because there is no demand for Icelandic beef, so much has been moved in. People import meat so large that it suffers in Icelandic farmers. It's not only to fill in the market, fill in the market temporarily because of the tourist current, but it's to come, if I just take the beef as an example, down to domestic manufacturers. A very large number of people in this hall have freely spoken in the General Assembly for competition. They talk about competition, liberality, consumers, etc. As far as I'm concerned, it's comparing completely different things. We're fighting state-enforcement agriculture in most countries, and we're fighting a factory in many cases, a large population living in a very different situation than here, with a completely different medication. Very many foreign producers, especially big producers, use antibiotics very much to fight endemic diseases that we haven't all had here, and they also use hormonal products to increase the growth and shorten the time waiting for the products. We're fighting everything other than the one we're used to in Iceland with our livestock that breathes our clean air and drinks our clean water and we have to stay alive for the long winter, most of the time, within the doors. By allowing ungained meat import and little to be limited, we are in my opinion digging our own grave in agricultural activities. I think we've got to stop it before we move further on that path. I'm not talking about the risks we're dealing with here when diseases that we can't handle and that we can just eliminate our strains, which are vulnerable to. I was going to talk about a lot more. I was going to talk about innovation in agriculture, which is truly well - known, as recent reports of garlic farming show. I hope it's going well. This transfusions of blood that has grown from mares have become quite an extensive branch of farmers. There are reports of a growing plant and of a variety of other things, such as forestry. The woods grow and hopefully become a revenue source for farmers in the future. Of course, travel is an extra branch for many farmers. So farmers have done their thing. We have to take this seriously, take this suggestion into consideration. I hope she'll be accepted, and we can give more support to the agriculture of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u4	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister. It's good to see too much. Minister here because we're discussing something very important, and I want to agree with very many issues presented in the case of an expert. The nature of the situation, as well as those who know the direction of these different categories, may lead to the goal that I believe is common to us, i.e. to strengthen Icelandic agriculture, to promote Icelandic agriculture, of course being different. But I agree with what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Mt. 1st. This controversies, which are worthy of all attention, plays an extremely important role in agriculture. I've told you many times in this council hall that there's a huge opportunity for agriculture at these times, whether we're in Covid times or in other times. Then, too, we must take certain action, or action. I see ambition for certain suggestions here. I also think, with all due respect, and I hope it's well. A senator doesn't get mad at me when I say so, be a tiny, old - fashioned approach to agriculture, and how to move forward. But in time, you'll sense your ambition in this synonym and I think it's a cause for joy. We and the people who have discussed these matters have seen a number of times when there is a standard set of rules that we want to see about all the sectors. Of course we know, and we see it even. In the European Union, which is properly putting our arms around various employment sectors, tourism, in the same way that we do, agriculture, because it needs to be handled at such times, and then we just take it to the point that when we enter a normal period, we can have jobs, such as agriculture, which thrive and grow. There are steps you need to take. But the guidelines, I believe, are that they should be competitive, that they should be self-sustaining, that is to be innovation. It's the theme I think it's important for a country to do business, agriculture as well as anyone else. In addition, governments need very specific measures. The infrastructure needs to be cultivated, and it is entirely impossible for farmers in many lands to have access to a three - phase electricity system. It'll hurt them even. in trying to build up other sector simultaneously, such as travel services, and that's what we need to consider. We need to make sure that agriculture has access to safe power security, transport networks, strong infrastructures, simple regulations. I agree with a number of aspects here, that agriculture, as well as any other industry, has to be able to continue to grow and thrive under the umbrella of a simple, clear rule of action, but also a request for transparency. This does not mean that we are letting someone relax when it comes to creating consumer protection. It is not relaxing when it comes to increasing information. The requirement to have a simple rule also comes with transparency and a general protocol of values, e.g. Contestation rules. There are some things I don't like in the suggestion but then there are things that we don't agree on. As a result of strengthening and strengthening agriculture, agriculture, like all other sectors, must be able not only to work under a simple rule but also a stable environment, an economic environment. There I consider a dollar to play a special role that does not lead to longer or shorter stability, either for agriculture or for other jobs. It is good to mark the Faeroe Islands, Norway, Sweden in part, the North countries as well as certain natural resources that they have at least been around well; yet, the fact that we have more vast and larger areas in order to cultivate and create powerful farming equipment has been given to them. There are a few things I would like to highlight, not just that competition and stability can create a certain kind of force into the agriculture system and it will be based on sustainability, but, as I mentioned earlier, must first, to secure the infrastructure. We know exactly who they are. It must be addressed in a specific way so that we can actually talk about allowing these opportunities, parishes, to enter the agriculture, which we all want us to be able to discern. We're not sure of that, for example. that one aim should be to increase the growth of agricultural growth as long as we also see other changes at the same time, not just based on competition, but also the increase of freedom, including the increase of freedom. Freedom to farmers, market freedom. I think it matters a lot, and we at Welbrean even have it. put it into the discussion that we want to see it at the same time, because this says that agricultural growth is 16 billion, it was 2016 when a farm contract was made when a Kingdom proclaimer was also a prime minister, but there are over 30 billion indirect growths in agriculture by customs and more and by direct sponsors. We are ready to discuss how to direct the indirect strength of toll protection to form into the agriculture itself. We've seen it even. with the vegetables. Vegetarian and horticultural farmers are calling for more direct strength to be increased, as we have made part of it successful. It is the way we can see that there are ways to improve and better interests, more variety of opportunities, as we see within the garden. We see how tomatoes have developed, through great innovations in that field, into a very productive industry that has also strengthened tourism. We can see from very powerful companies and gardeners, for example, in the South, that the products of tomatoes have begun to deliver more than direct sales to farmers on tomatoes themselves. This is just an example of what we can do. We heard different voices, optimistic voices, but also appeals for us to take major steps in the interests of agriculture. We are willing to do so as long as we too are discussed what really needs to be done. I believe we should take the matter into consideration... that we should further increase the direct strength of delinquency. But we are not saying that we will reduce demands, e.g. the requirement for originating. They need to be much better. We must not, for the development of customs and imports, give it to people who are importing agricultural products are playing with the system. It's totally unacceptable whether it's related to agriculture or other sectors. In this regard, we should be able to accept without threatening or discussing the need to cancel our customs. For example, we have a talk about canceling a customs contract from 2015, and we can take up a discussion about it. But I'd like to say, "What are the goals of my contract with Icelanders?" Which one has been on the side of the highest. Agricultural minister or foreign secretary in dealing with the British? - I've only 33 seconds left, but I'm just getting started, and I'm in the middle. - What is it to produce what the British have put in their conversations with Icelanders when it comes to customs and agricultural relations? I think it is of great importance in the context of this requirement to cancel the customs agreements with the European Union because we are primarily concerned about the interests of Iceland, and I am not necessarily convinced that this is the way. I want to pray to the highest. The president of putting me back on the rosary because I'm going to come in on a few things, including In terms of the agricultural education, the gardening school I would like to discuss, the products I would also introduce, and other factors I think can easily be turned into in the interest of a powerful Icelandic agricultural. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u5	Mr. President. It is disappointing that speech time is not double on this point. But if I were a agricultural minister, I'd jump my height with joy at getting hands like that. If I were a agricultural minister, I'd think, "Why the hell didn't I do it myself? But that's enough. I'm going to hope to the highest. Ministers are designed to care for where good comes from and where he can use the document presented here as a guide for the future of Icelandic agriculture. I would rather discuss the landwork from the perspective of the consumer, the common consumer. I wanted to ask the question, How much is it worth to have an Icelandic agriculture, i.e. for consumers? The answer is obvious: Yes, we live under it, consumers, having a agricultural product produced under the best of circumstances, both man and animal, that is well - equipped for production. We don't have slaves to pick up vegetables as usual here in the continent, and it's been published in the news both late and early. We get these products at a good price. That is why farming is supported so that Icelandic labor workers can buy wholesome products for good price. And why are we sponsoring agriculture? Yes, it is because agriculture in Iceland and elsewhere is probably the only industry to compete with state-sized agriculture across the sea. It's not a coward to find out, for example. what the European Union is strengthening agriculture because the European Union's agricultural concentrations are carefully hid in smoke and air. I've sometimes said that it's kind of a calamity of Icelandic farmers that it's shown in sheep farms every year, x-numbers, help with sheep farmers, other numbers, and billies can calculate, based on the production of milk and kilos on lamb meat, e.g., how much goes into subsidies every kilo and every litre, and then men curse the store and say, "This is what I'm paying for these farmers." Mr. President. It's not that simple. And speaking of how it is difficult to reach the EU's budget, I found figures from 2010 up to 59 billion euro, which are according to today's 9.6 billion Icelandic gang. I also found a number the other day in the New York Times. There were $83 billion. That's about it. Eleven thousand million dollars, if one can count so many 0's. It is not surprising that we support Icelandic agriculture. And not only for this but also for the rest of the country - a fundamental question: Do we want it? Is that what we're talking about? I think we'd like most of us to. Then we should be interested in a matter, and we should show it by our actions. What's new, that I think, in the suggestions presented here - the last what's left of it. A speaker said that he thought it was old - fashioned, obviously she hasn't read it with the same glasses as I -- here, for example. Evolution is a marketing report. That's what's been happening here, evolution and market activities. Why? Yeah, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. due to a pack of whales. The above - mentioned senator has spoken very frequently against the fact that the modern - day Icelandic products can unite and view them as wicked. There are many ways to prove that, e.g. leaving the milk industry in Iceland competitive - I think my good partner, Ögmundur Jónasson, has ever said it best and is most clear of all, that it produced 3 billion a year, a billion for farmers and 2 billion for consumers. I haven't seen anyone turn this around, not anyone. But we consumers desperately need to see who gets what. When we buy lamb for the store, I like it, for example. knows who gets what. I know that an Icelandic farmer gets around 30%, reminds me only under what is a little under what is in some European countries out of size, it's very simple. Of course, I'd like to know. Now that the price of beef is just dropped by 5%, it goes up to the store, and I want to know why. Where did the money go? Did he go to the merchant's? Did he go to the MAH's slaughter that can't be joined? Where did he go? He did not go to the farmer. It's been three years since delivery of price on lamb, i.e. A farmer's price was dropped by 30% with one pen mark, this was done in August if I remember correctly. I've asked people, how would you feel if you suddenly got a salary that was 30% less than last month, no explanation, without warning? What would you do? This 30% did not return to consumers. They didn't, and I asked a long time, including Here in this pit: Where did this money go? So this is where an honest candidate, a deputy senator, came in, who could say that these money had likely gone to the Marketing Authorisation Holder. Okay, then we knew. Well, that was fine. It is now a large unit of unity that we know of, and hopefully peace will be restored to them as they need to be. But this does not change the natural nature of the products we have here that do not make it better to market them. I'm not necessarily talking about selling lamb to China. I would love to see a marketing campaign that was aimed, for example. to the largest cafeterias in Iceland, such as the Athlellian cafeteria, where lamb is not offered every day or every week, or the Board's cafeteria where the same is true, or in basic schools. Let's see what we can do, Mr. President. As we examine the price of consumers, I'm assuming that if you go to the store and buy sheep fleas on the bones and bones of it, and take bones from and meat to make use of it, it seems to me that the weight price is similar to that of the bare, boneless paper sheets out of the store. Then anyone can come here and say it's expensive. Then I have to ask you, which one is expensive? Is it the expensive fish, or is it the agricultural products? Mr. President. I have to climb rocks because time is so short. We've also talked about customs and customs, etc. We are, for example. Now, Icelanders, these years customs victims. We are victims of the customs of the European Union. When the last agreements were made between us and the European Union, we negotiated a kilo to a litre or a litre of liters. We are about 370,000 or more, more than 500 million, only now less during the New Year's season. So it's a very wild game, and you ask: We have a product that's becoming world famous and that becomes more famous every day, Icelandic. We can only move it out to a small extent because of customs. So, what do we do? We'll do the next best we can, we'll make a Coca Cola signal from the box. Coca Cola is produced in all countries, everywhere. Now we're producing strudels in many parts of the world, with their qualities, as close as we can get to it. Icelandic intelligent agricultural product, 1000 years of age, over it, classic, healthy. It is a great deal for consumers to be so supported by agriculture that it can grow and its ways. I must admit, Mr. President, I have to come to another speech because I hadn't started my vegetarian lesson. I have to talk about the misunderstanding about Icelandic veggies, how cool vegetarians are it. They've lost 20% of the market share in vegetables in the past five years, and that doesn't seem to work too well. I'm going to go over this in my next speech, Mr. President, and I'm going to ask to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u6	Mr. President. As I'm saying, there's a hell of a lot of territory here in Iceland, but then we're gonna have to take it from here too. It's been over here on the agricultural system, something sensitive for me to call old-fashioned. This is a system that has largely been built up by two categories that have not, in my opinion, built up a system that allows farmers to move themselves, freedom to decide for themselves what they want to direct their powers, what they think is best for Icelandic nature, for Icelandic markets, etc. We cannot avoid considering that according to foreign reports, including OECD, European consumers are paying top price for agricultural products, but farmers are getting one of the lowest price available to them in the same area. There's something going on in that system, and you have to face it. I agree that this is something the Icelandic consumers want, which they have shown by buying Icelandic vegetables and other products. We are even willing to pay more money for Icelandic products because we know what we are getting. We know where they come from, we know what they're like. But it does not have to be, as we can see, that the species of Icelandic agricultural products are the areas that depend most on competitive behavior, including. In dairy products, go to greater glory for consumers than elsewhere. Where competition rules do not apply, general competitive rules, as in milk, are higher prices to consumers, all observations and comparative checks have been shown. So we can fix it without becoming a farmers. But I do believe that this is going to work out together, i.e. The interests of consumers and farmers, and always have. This is something we should consider in particular. I think it's very important that we discuss which avenues we can use at the Grand Banks. It's very special that the products can, like a dog. paritaprevir Sæmundsson came in earlier, all of a sudden, only reduced product prices to farmers with a single pen mark. This has been called for an increased cooperation between demolitions. It's only okay as long as you go to the competition and guidance of the Contestant Guard. I know from my experience, my recent experience at the Department of Agriculture, that there was an attempt to cooperate. When people were talking about piling up the tons of lamb, men asked for cooperation. Export duties were tried, which are nothing more than subsidies of the State. All right. They considered it, but they were not prepared to provide all the information that would have been needed to allow it to work together. So I say, yes, let's look at all this cooperation as long as it's done on the basis of competitive rules, transparency, and freedom. We don't have anything to do with it if you look at it. If there's something farmers have complained about me, and they've done in the various conversations of last semester, then it's the products, and that they have little leeway in their position to them. This is something that we need to start to focus on and take a closer look. I am prepared to examine all routes as long as this fundamental prince is guided. I just want to come in on agricultural education. I think that's exactly what we're supposed to look at. I believe the monarchy is particularly going to be put around the Gardening School of Smoke in Elfs. We must start to recognize that the present system is not working. I don't think that there's enough support under that article, and it's been called on by a garden prayer that all the environments will be examined. I think the government has to take these tips to heart. Things have been tried, but they have not worked out, and then we need to look for other ways. On the other hand, I would like to warn against talking about the agricultural business by trying always to take this novice in the European Union. There are many things to be criticized in the European Union, but I am convinced that, after examining reports and talking to farmers in other countries, they are just quite content with their position in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] However, I think we should discuss these factors as well as import from the United States, considering that we want to compete, but we also want to continue to promote the production of the Icelandic agricultural industry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But this cannot be done by speaking down our parties, whether in the European Union or in the United States. [[The president calls.]] To say that, I hope we get a good discussion on this subject on the council committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u7	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen on the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u8	Mr. President. I know why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir is fond of the European Union, and we are not here to speak of the European Union. It speaks of the need to follow competitive rules. Then we must ask: Where is the competition? Where did she come from? Yes, it comes, at least in terms of agricultural products here, mostly from the European Union. Because the milk industry was being discussed earlier, I can tell you that I bought cheese in Costco the other day. He was British, but he was made under the mark of Arla. Who are they? It is the largest dairy industry in Denmark that has taken over part of Europe by its milk production and could administer the production of Iceland only before noon on Tuesday or something like that, if this were an uninterrupted competition and import. And the bottom line comes back again: There has no nation, at least not in Europe, nor in America, off-limit protection one-sided e.g. Agricultural products This is not to be done because it is foolish, because the post office is international, because amplitude and prices are in no different way addressed to customs in the European Union or here. As an example of how subsidies work, people in the United States adopted it about 15 years ago, if I remember correctly, to pay down rice for farmers in Arkansas. Who put it on the ground? This led to self - basic settlements in Haiti, which were recovering from a major earthquake that had occurred three years earlier. The rice that came from America was cheap, but farmers lost natural death. Did anyone make any money out of this? Yeah, maybe consumers down there from there for a little while. It was just like this outside the program. Now I have only three minutes left to talk about the vegetables. During the council, there have been many reports that arrangements made for vegan farmers over ten years ago were so incredibly impressive and successful. Vegetarian farmers were placed on a shelf, where they were supposed to produce peppers, groves, and tomatoes, and nothing else. All other vegetables, in the past, flowed into the land. But it was just so damn good - I'm sorry about the language, Mr. President - keeping the vegetarians on this shelf. There was nothing to worry about. They were just happy to make their tomatoes and stuff like that. But it has recently been observed that the market share of Icelandic vegetables has dropped by 20% in the past few years because farmers have gone into other species, trying to move forward for e.g. emptying of food, etc., which is all right with itself. But what we're supposed to do for vegetarians, and we're supposed to look at it for all of our farmers for our good, including consumers, is watch the resources of farmers, they're watching electrical prices. Why don't you get vegetarians, e.g. if they grow under glass, not by electricity at the same price as by other forms of industry? And when I say other important things, I mean that in Southland alone, there are about 600,600,800 jobs in gardening. It's more than a medium barrier. Then I'll say again, "Why don't you go to some sort of product development?" Why don't humans grow a vanilla under glass? The gram of vanilla leaped last year to the price of a gram of silver? Would anyone be against growing silver if he had a chance? I don't think so, Mr. President. We politicians need to create this environment by general action that they do not have to look like boners in the eyes of others, because they are not. Icelandic farmers are very efficient and proud people to groups of people who are producing a good product that is quite adventurously amazing that we cannot sell expensive money abroad. It doesn't say anything about the agricultural product, it just says that me Icelanders are very poor salesmen. What we need to do now, and that is exactly the point and the input of this conclusion, is create an application tool for Icelandic agriculture, a cover page. To whom will it be a blessing? Of course, farmers and the countryside they live in, but they also affect us, for we get the greater Icelandic product we know from. We know it's not full of hormones, we know it's not grown with bad water, we know it's not packed with poison. That's what we consumers are laughing at, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u9	A respectable president. I believe that Iceland and our interests are better protected in international cooperation than in making two-way contracts with e.g. The United States or Britain, as it is now, because it turns out that it is better and more powerful to be with others than to be the little person against the big. We can see exactly how the situation unfolds in the relations of Britain and the United States to form agrienvironmental products, where the United States puts heavy pressure on the British population to allow large amounts of hormonal food from the United States. That's one of the conditions Americans have been putting on free trade agreements with the British. It is my belief that Icelandic interests, including agriculture, are better paid for in such a strong multinational work than in two-sided vacation agreements. But that's another story. With the vegetables, it's just right around the corner. But I am convinced that in the past, this was the right step with vegetables and vegetable farmers and the way we opened the import of vegetables to provide more direct strength in a particular vegetable. This led to innovation. This led to a new thought. We totally saw it. It's time for me to say, I agree with that. A senator, that we reevaluate further steps and listen to what vegetarians have been asking for, that toll protection will be simply rewarded and restored to direct strength in other areas, such as In the paprika, or possibly the potatoes. We have many opportunities. What must not happen is that we do not ask ourselves to change the system so that it will be in the direction of these general rules, competition, freedom, innovation, and diversity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u10	Mr. President. Thank you for answering. Hv. Senator, we are engaged in a multinational work. We've been in a multinational business as long as I can remember, and it's quite long, and still longer than that. The question, though, is: Are we better off in a larger kit? Perhaps we would be thrilled if we were 0.1% owners of Icellands. We would not have much effect, but we might be happy about it. Part of my family has lived for 16 years in Denmark. Danes are 15 times as many as Icelanders, and Dani is no influence in the European Union, but I don't know what. I have been asked by the part of my family that has lived in the European Union for 16 years: What are you thinking about entering the European Union? What do you think you're gonna get? Do you think they'll listen to you? You are 0.000X% of the population in Europe. We're just gonna be like the poor uncle who's been let in by kindness. We'll be like children in Victoria. We'll be told to talk when we're spoken. But otherwise, we should just be slow. The effect of entering this relationship becomes less than zero, much smaller. But I say again, we are in a multinational business. Why have we made a contract for a crash in Japan? That is because we are engaged in a multinational work. The Japanese are 130 million - no small market. All Asia is just a few billion. Why are we building ourselves into a disintegrating relationship? What for? It's like becoming a sailor on Titanic just before it leaves port. No, I don't think so. Senator. I think we should have our mind open, open our arms, to the whole world, not just the adult years that Europe is going to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u11	A respectable president. Yes, that was an interesting expression. I think it's beginning to become a little bit of a middle class line, and it's fine if it's clear, but it's talking down Europe, our most loyal cohesive nations over the years and decades. That cooperation has even been shown. helped us Iceland is what we are today, through the international cooperation of the EEA Treaty. But we do know that the Central Party wants to reexamine that cooperation. Hv. A senator said that we would have no effect in the European Union. The same line of reasoning can be asked: Why, then, are we in the defense work within the Atlantic Community? Because we have no influence? Why? Because we consider our interests to be more valuable in this international community than outside, that our defences and security interests in Iceland are better protected in such international activities rather than standing outside. I'm just saying, what kind of ambition is that Iceland doesn't have a voice in a multinational business? We have seen it, and reports from above have confirmed that the economic and social well-being of our Icelanders has increased with each step we have entered international cooperation, whether in the field of EFTA, NATO, or through the EEA Convention and then in the internal cooperation. Rather than being quick to consider small things, let us display small powers and faith in ourselves. A senator was saying. I'd like to agree that it's fun to monitor the rise of the deck, but I would have liked to see the vision of an Icelandic agricultural minister through the years, that they had guaranteed us a patent of the word and production of a box, just as the champagne farmers in the province of France and Coca cola, since they were referring to it. It is being produced in many parts of the world that are in that way positive, but it does not necessarily depend on Icelandic signals. However, our Icelandic brand is being used to sell other excellent products. I would have liked to see some vision then, but it wasn't. Then we try to go the way we're going now, and I think there's a lot of opportunities and opportunities to link this sale. But I would like to point out that this is true through competition and cooperation and freedom. That's how our interests are best paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u12	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Once again, a senator answers, even more. I am so glad that she took the defense work as an example of our having no effect. Yeah, yeah, yeah. A senator, certainly we are involved in the defense work because we offer valuable values that are so important in the eyes of our partners that we get serious seats at the table and we do not sit on the end and pick up pieces of bread. It is naturally heavier than tears today, since the money to be paid with is green, that is. That's awful. Here comes Admiral the other day, and he wants to expand his cooperation because our interests, like ours. A senator rightly pointed out, gathered, and expanded submarine search here is for our own good because there are subs in every bay and flying east. Of course, people in the West worry about it, so that's where the interests go together. Hv. A senator spoke of a lack of vision. Now I don't know the story of the deal because I don't work on it. I know it's been lost the chance to get patented in America, but it's been in Europe, very many places, and in Asia, so we haven't completely lost the game. It's also a question: Can we at some point go the same way as the Greeks, saying, "It's a product that doesn't exist but in Iceland? That's what they did about the foot cheese. It's a question of that, and there's a job for the highest. Agricultural minister who is now out of the hall is working with a point and eggs to identify us as an Icelandic product from A to Z and that the brand is not relevant to himself but the origin of the product. There's work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u13	A respectable president. We'll discuss a council proposal from the Central Party. I have to admit, a respectable president, that I am amazed that there are 24 points listed here, all of which are linked to agricultural activities, but the conclusion goes out of assigning prime minister to implement this action in cooperation with farmers. I wondered what it was for, but once I read the proposal through it, it is stated in the final series, with the permission of the president: Since the proposalers feel that the value of agriculture for national security and national security is clear, this proposal is directed to the prime minister as the director of the government and the chairman of the National Security Council. I'm curious to know, a respectable president, which case is going to take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u14	It's straight to the left. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u15	Thank you, Mr. Honorable President. I was wondering, just like this, that this is a national security case, if it's not right for this to go to the State Department. I heard some talk, too. Senators who were discussing here before me and they were discussing quite a lot of foreign stuff. I wondered, " Is this not a natural development? ' However, I would like to say that agriculture is a very important business, based on the discussion that Iceland's opportunities as food production, to pursue wholesome and environmental food production, is, of course, enormous. We are known for our fishing way, and of course there are opportunities for farming too. In fact, I can see it when I read over these points that, of course, they are already in the water or in the process already. But I'm going to direct it to the movers and maybe a president at the same time if this is a case that doesn't belong any more on the foreign committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u16	Mr. President. I just want to thank the members of the council who took part in this discussion, especially why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunns' Gunnarsdóttir, who had such a different view of this matter but was, to me, in general, just a positive view of the proposal. Hopefully, the restoration and the other groups will be on their way to advance this matter through the council, for it certainly does not. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir spoke extensively about competitive matters, and the discussion was only about the European Union as it was sometimes in the past. Senators get back on the subject, they want to develop in that direction. But it should be a reminder that the European Union is primarily a toll alliance, a matter of customs around Europe. The EU puts more toll on imported goods, so I am not only talking about food but on products in general than on Iceland. Iceland is more open to international trade than the EU. If the primary objective is to have a business open, why? Parliaments will likely reform to be content just to be outside the European Union's customs but to negotiate with the EU and countries of other parts of the world on mutual business. The problem with the agreements that have been made, especially recently, on food customs is that this is not the case with competition on equal terms. There, Icelandic farmers compete with farmers and, in fact, not just farmers, but factories in other countries, they have to meet the various conditions, such as I traced earlier, and they charge a great deal of expense to meet all the charges and requirements and then have to compete with people who are on the payroll and who work under circumstances that we would never accept here in Iceland. In what other profession did this seem acceptable, Mr. President? I think if you start doing that in other jobs or moving people in to make it happen in Iceland, but in terms and conditions offered in other countries, you would have to act quickly. Certainly, it is no exception that the State feels the need to protect its agriculture. Toll. It's a rule, not an exception. However, such protection has been avoided in Iceland to the point that the industry is simply in danger, and the rest of it is all added to my previous speech. There is competition in Icelandic food production. There is also competition for milk production and running around a different dairy farm. There are competitive laws on milk, except for the practicality available to all. It is a allowed economy that exploits consumers, exploits the community in general, and also becomes useful to farmers. They might get, if I remember correctly, 90 bucks. a pound here, but farmers, or producers, are right. Of course, farmers would have to make a lot more money in Iceland, and that is also true. it is addressed as a number of other matters in this synoptic arrangement, this panorama of synopsis that address the problems and opportunities of the article as a whole. But I agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir that there is every reason to demand the government's policy of negotiations with the British on customs and especially in the area of food. But it's at least It is clear that after the British exit from the European Union, the basis for this non-good tax agreement is totally broken. We cannot allow this unusual situation to develop because of a pandemic or simply apathy to lose the value and cultural value of Icelandic agriculture and have since since land mines. This site was called a foreign dairy farm, e.g. Arla, the Danish manufacturer, who, by the way, could produce beyond what he could produce in one of its own, has finished the Icelandic market and would not be returned. We Icelanders, like other nations, must defend our food production and have even more reason to do so than other countries because we have this clean, wholesome production and, in addition, an unusually high value of agriculture in maintaining land - wide development and thus becoming the foundation of various valuable creations. Of course, we want consumer food prices to be as low as possible because supporting the agricultural production here is at the same time supporting consumers. A comparison of food prices in Iceland and elsewhere often changes considerably by gangs. But if you look at the percentages that people have to pay for, on the other hand, and on the other hand, the share is low in Iceland. People are paying relatively little of their income for Icelandic foods compared to the cost of food shopping elsewhere. Any who go abroad and look around in the camp can prove that frequent and frequent times are higher in foreign lands. I mention, for example, New York, where I was, it's been some year since, but I did my own research on food prices. In all cases, dairy products were more expensive than in Iceland. Maybe that's because we've been able to create this system that allows economy. But I agree with those who point out that farmers need a larger share in what consumer pays for food. Often, it has been true that when sold to consumers, large shops go too far. Research and research have shown this, including in Finland, the increase in import does not necessarily result in a lower price, even in the contrary, as in this Finnish case, where the increased import simply meant an even greater strain on the products. Of course, this resulted in losses to consumers but also national losses. We must not forget the national importance of this sector, which for only a decade ago probably saved Iceland from bankruptcy when we had the greatest difficulty of scraping enough currency to import necessities, drugs, oil, and so forth. There was no less to it than that. If it hadn't been for the 50 billion that the world's production guarantees the community, we could have landed on the wrong side and had a very difficult subsequent visit. It was to award this profession for it, once we've earned the impact of the bank collapse, but it's still waiting for it to come back. Hv. paritaprevir Mysterious Bryndís Haraldsdóttir wondered if the matter should go to the State Department, which I find somewhat peculiar, but why. For example, members of the Independence Party and Ministers have recently been recalculationing agriculture, even believing that it was not a trade, but to some extent a hockey. I don't know what the committee should do if someone sees it as a matter of concierge. Of course, that is not the case. This is one of the nation's basic works from the beginning, an article that has literally preserved us for centuries, and is important to society in every way, in a diverse way. Therefore, it is important to take action now that this article is exposed to a marvelous defense, a great problem, an article that has an enormous opportunity, as we do in this fine concierge proposal that I hope will be able to perform in the council. To that end, I suggest that the proposal go to sleep. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u17	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this interesting discussion. I'd just like to say a few words about this synopsis proposal. First, there are positive things in it. This multi-involved strategy is being developed, and I am especially glad that this is an extensive way in which we can promote domestic food production. Of course there are many things I can't agree with and I'm not going to focus on it. It's like that. Talk about securing the future of fur breeds that I, if I speak for myself, think it's a time failure. Also mentioned are the so - called haematopoiesis, which I also feel is a time error. Earlier in the winter, I had a request for the blood circulation but only to be aware of what it is, it is a somewhat special praxise in this country, has been done for some 40 years, then blood is taken from pregnant mares to extract a special hormone from these horses, and then the hormone is used to change the pace of pigs. It's industry, in case the industry should be called, which has been a considerable period of time here, but I think it's a perfect time error, and in many countries it has simply been forbidden. There may be something else to discuss, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that in this synonym, it is also spoken of. how to expand this industry, how to use mera blood for this purpose, which is controversial. According to an answer given to me from a agricultural minister earlier this winter, there are 5,000 mares in Iceland being used for this purpose. I was going to focus on what I agree with you in this fine pact of Congress. There are many positive things there, such as emphasis on education, innovation, organic production, and forestry. But I'd like to mention in this brief speech my vegetable production. I think we can all be together here, whether to the left, to the right, or to the center, that we can do much better to support domestic vegetable production. Iceland, in fact, has a unique chance to be in the front row of vegetable production. It may surprise people when they examine maps, where we are in the world, but it is Iceland's position on the map that makes this possibility so appealing and possible. Our home in Iceland is full of water, cold and hot and energy, but it is too expensive for vegetable farmers. The demand for wholesome vegetables, fruits, and grain has increased worldwide and will increase substantially in the years to come. Thus, for Iceland, it is a deadly tool to make much better when it comes to vegetable production in Iceland and vegetable development. This opportunity is unique and useful to Iceland in a sustainable way. It is a professional, faced with changes in consumer behavior, and is environmentally experienced in climate change times. But for this opportunity to be used, governments need to establish the structure with increasing official support. That's what I read, even. from this motion of the Middle Party, they're calling for it. We need to reduce the price of electricity and reduce transport costs and other costs. Such support, of course, needs to be beneficial and general, but above all, handsome. In economics, we have a great deal of faith in the so - called economic motivations, but in this country, they are far more lacking when it comes to the green and dear. These days and the miss is developing financial plans for the government, and we are discussing financial programs for five years up to 5,000 billion, and this money goes on for the next five years. That is why I believe this is the very time to present progressive ideas, especially in business, that take into account the future and not the past. I call out from this chair that large production of vegetables in this country should be part of a state-of-the-art employment policy. It should also be part of a well - defined government investment campaign. This is not to be a small side project that is thus allowed to float when the ministers remember it. But so far, over the years, it has been the destiny of vegetable production in Iceland. In Iceland, veggie farmers have come to rest. Government plans have recently been announced to increase the production of vegetables by 25% in three years. It was added to a small amount of 200 million in addition to the 600 that receive the production of horticulture products. Mr. President. Rather, it is all too small and ambitious, as is the case with many of the other things that come from this government. We are to set much higher goals, e.g. to 4 times the production of vegetables here in the country rather than to increase it by only quarter as the government wants it. Here we are supposed to think big, and it pays back to employment and to increase the production of wholesome, sustainable food. The 200 million that the government put in addition to vegetable production are similar to the amount given by these same governments to the fish farms each year. This is only one tenth of what the government puts in defense every year. However, it flows 12 billion from the public in cattle and sheep farms each year, thus being supported by agricultural products only 5% of that amount. What's green about that, Mr. President? I think it is very important that future agricultural treats focus on the green rather than the four - footed one. That should be our long - term goal. Of course, traditional agriculture will remain, I'll figure it out. I'm just focusing on a new-born commercial application system based on ambition for vegetable production, which takes into account changes in consumption practices and climate change. We need to help Icelandic farmers change their production this way, if they choose. We are to support other new farmers working in the green production world. Now we're going to think big again, especially at this time. Iceland is supposed to be an importer on gardening products rather than an importer. Iceland is an immigrant in the best fish in the world. We are food land when it comes to fish, we are on a global scale on a seabed, but notice that the average fish is an animal abroad. It's expensive and good products abroad. That is why I bring up the idea: Why don't the same approach to Icelandic vegetables? Why are we not determined to have it in the first category? And it can be expensive and go to an expensive market in the world. We are not to approach this idea with the intention of making the glass as cheap as possible. No, let's think outside the box. There are so many kinds of vegetables, fruit species, seams, and other items that we can look at and cultivate in this country. Let's keep this product that reaches the production and important market. Let us think, as the fishing road did. Let's go to a high end, if I may gossip, Mr. President, the market that calls for good and healthful vegetable products. It's an application we're supposed to speak for. We're supposed to expand, Mr. President, this idea of Iceland as a foodland we're on the scene of a fishing road, letting it reach vegetable production. Because not all we need is vegetables. Of course, it needs energy, and it needs to be on a controlled budget. We need a fleshstorm, a tarmac and water, and that's all we have, Mr. President. It's an attractive opportunity, especially in times like now. We've got a job to make now. Unemployment is Iceland's greatest challenge today. Some 20,000 Icelanders are out of work and may be heading to 25,000,300,000 next Christmas. The public now needs to introduce so many good - looking aspects. This can be one piece of the puzzle. Let's bet on vegan production. We have all the necessary things, but the public needs to come in a more handsome way than it is now. This must not be a punt or a side project as often appears to be due to this government. Let's make this one of the cornerstones of the Icelandic field when it comes to agriculture. Let's bet on vegan production. It will come in good lips, in varied employment. I repeat, Mr. President, sometimes it takes money to make money. It takes thinking on a large scale, but it pays off, and that makes sense. Four times the Icelandic vegetable product. It is a reasonable idea, not just to increase it by one-fourth, as the government's ambitions testify. The only thing blocking us in this expedition is the ambitiousness of the government. Mr. President. We need to grow out of this crisis and grow to be green and good, and it's not worse if we can eat it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u18	Mr. President. I recommend a concierge proposal for activities in a rural society due to a pandemic crown virus. Transporters of this proposal are agghast. Councilmen Logi Einar Einarsson, a 1st merchant, Elíasdóttir Furfjörður Furfjörðurfjörður Ágústsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Helga Helgadóttir Helgaótóttir, and the one standing here. So we're all members of the United States Congress. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: The General concluded to hide transport and local Ministers and financial and economic secretarys from preconceiving that Iceland's government, in collaboration with rural communities, and in the implementation of the following measures aimed at supporting rural society in particular due to conditions attributable to the pandemic of Korean virus, thus defending jobs and maintaining services to the general public and ensuring that communities can attack necessary investments. The implementation will be completed by January 1, 2021. 1st State funds are met with rural areas due to reductions in expansive income with additional grants relative to the intake of individual rural enterprises. 2. Increased rural resources due to a pandemic crown virus reaction will be improved by direct donations through the rural budget. 3. Civil and social development will be improved by 800 million. K. up-to-date for national parishion plans. 4. Government funds are involved in good loans to rural society because of investments. 5. Stocks and bonds on public shopping laws relating to rural discharges will be temporarily evacuated. 6th The elderly'fund will be strengthened so that they will be able to take on maintenance projects and provide the basic expenses of new nursing households. 7. There will be more general rentals in cooperation with rural society. 8. Advertising will be carried out in Icelandic jobseekers of foreign origin. Mr. President. I'd like to go to a big paper with this council plan. But before I do, I'd like to recall that last night, there was a special discussion about the situation of the rural society in these difficult times. It discussed all these matters. The members of the United States in this special discussion reminded them of this synopsis proposal. We made such a suggestion during springtime because it was clear that those rural communities who had suffered the greatest loss of income would require assistance from the State. It's obvious, if people think about it for a moment, that rural society, which may be living between 2003-30% unemployment, such as in the city of Rhinesville, will not be able to run without cutting down either in welfare or in projects, unless both are available. That is why the state fund has to face the rural communities that have suffered the biggest loss of income. It is the rural population that handles about one third of the public service and has legitimate duties toward children, the disabled, the elderly, and others needing public service in the vicinity of the community. The Parliamentary arrangement suggests that these two Ministers, transport and rural Ministers, and financial and economic ministers, receive this role. The government has not responded sufficiently to the problems of rural society, and it is obvious that the additional budget is neither enough to protect the welfare of people nor to protect and create jobs throughout the country. An additional administration of the government, except for some 4.8 billion dollars. However, experts have noted that it is likely that about 50 billion dollars is missing. into the community business of the current year and the next. In that case, it is very serious that the payment of an equation fund to your community is not put in line with economic development and that it falls into the government's financial programme. In order to avoid a recession that will work against the upkeep of the State, the State has to revise its contributions to the countryside. By not getting attached to the ground, the State is putting the societies in a debt crisis that will continue to take on their inhabitants. In the face of unprecedented unemployment, it is especially important to defend employment in public service and to enable rural communities to create new jobs through professional investments. If nothing else is done, we will look forward to cutting cuts in important close - up services to the public, increasing unemployment, and a lack of resistance across the country. The government needs to be better met with rural areas so that good personal care can be provided throughout the country and face a pandemic of Korean virus, its side effects, and its sequelae. President. As I told you before, we need to support our rural society, which has suffered a massive drop in income due to a pandemic crown virus. The budget has a far greater and varied budget than the rural population that has to be used to cope with this shock. The largest - in - the - out income - is - the - percent weight - is the rural population. In addition, rural interest costs are higher than government funds, so they do not have the same potential for debt. There is about 80% of the cost of the rural community in education and social services. How vital it is that the legal community service of a community is solid, that services be ensured, and that children, the disabled, and the elderly be taken into consideration! Civil society must be met to ensure that, even if the country's income is significant, it can continue to perform close - up services. Stress in the ministry has increased temporarily as a result of local circumstances. It is suggested that the Agency will be promoted, effective measures will be set up in cooperation between state and rural society, local welfare services will be established by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the health care team will be strengthened, and the community service of the local community will be supported. Running high school is difficult in those days because of loss of income, resulting from correction of privileges, in line with the deterioration of service. Many rural communities failed to give full discounts of school, day - to - day parents and leisure expenses where services fell down. The same applies to parents who chose to keep their children at home or who needed to stay at home because of illness or infection. At that time, many parents were allowed to pay only for their new ministry. Most institutions have reduced their public service to make room for the work that has responded to the pandemic crown virus. Nursing services and day-to-day institutions depend on evacuation, in some agreements and for others on the basis of regulations. This situation has led to a loss of income in rural areas over the next few weeks and months due to the pandemic as projects have increased and costs of living have increased, including due to the illness of employees and convalescents. Added to these are external costs, such as protection and increased need for service. Some 80% of Icelandic society income is tax revenue, which differs from what goes and happens in our neighboring countries, with a larger proportion of income partners being government-sponsored and supported. During this year's ride due to a pandemic crown virus, rural society has suffered a major loss of income. The country's wealth is the main tool of a government fund to meet the major losses of the rural population, but the funds have fallen by the loss of the state's budget. At the same time, new and complex projects have been added to a rural society because of the pandemic. This increased cost is not accompanied by any potential income for rural society. It is important that funding be placed in support of rural society to meet these new projects. In 2011, largely over a legal group of disabled persons, their communities are already billions of dollars in the litigation category. Unchangedly, this limp will increase substantially over the years, including due to a lower contribution from the state funds to NAPA. In order to cope with these extra expenses, the financial resources to the rural community must be increased. Mr. President. Participation is a work programme that has been successful. The number of projects on regional and social development needs to be addressed in order to support areas and rural areas. The government's internalization is enough to meet the challenges of local society. In order to achieve the full use of funds, it is advisable to place funds in the national parish program, where the local people know best about the circumstances and conditions in which there is human resources to work out plans in cooperation with the Ministry. Based on the plan of forwarding, rural areas in each region will work together. After the 2008 collapse of the bank, investments were significantly cut down by the government for business purposes. In rural areas, with emphasis on maintaining business at zero, as in companies, investments were significantly reduced to a significantly greater extent than government funds. Both sides have gathered an inner debt that has not yet been fully repaired. The government has been called on to state that now is the time to use financial resources with full weight to protect jobs and create resistance through considerable investments and development. The United States rejoices with this attitude and has provided additional proposals on the responsible route, the 2021 economy, which could ensure a greater global resistance. The urban population is an important part of the government. So it is shocking that the state funds will be turned in while societies are completely left behind, even under financial planning to reduce investments. This will create an even greater debt of wood. If financial resources are not willing or able to fully meet the needs of an investment society by granting grants, the state's funds may be involved in a favorable loan to rural society because of investments, as has been done in support loans to companies. The budget for the state tender is 49 million. K. This means that all larger projects are being set out for tenders. The signaling process takes time and so that action can be rushed during the year, it is necessary to increase the criteria at least into 350 million. K. In comparison, the government budget is 700 million. K. President. It is important to start projects as rapidly as possible in order to maintain the level of employment in the country. The elderly'budget can be considered in this regard. The programme needs to be planned and implemented so that the project can begin immediately. In this regard, we can examine the maintenance projects, change from house to house in nursing homes, and improve access, as well as other projects. Regarding the construction of a commercial tenet in rural areas, it can be said that their objective is two-fold, by building a living building, thus helping the job and thus helping to improve the security of individuals and families under the minimum income and property limits, by increasing access to safe and suitable rented housing and making sure that housing costs are consistent with the potential of tenants. However, now it is headed for a quiet apartment investment, which is a concern. A large number of foreign workers are in this country. Has it played a vital role in building and in the prosperity that has prevailed in recent years? On January 1, 2020, there were 55,354 immigrants or 15.2% of the population. The majority of that number can be expected to remain here despite economic pressures. A knowledge of Icelandic languages is the key to Icelandic society and can determine the success of immigrants in society. In those days, it is ideal to help immigrants use their time to strengthen their jobs by studying Icelandic. Mr. President. I suggest that the Senate resolution proposal be referred to an environment and transport committee [See correction by the senator in a talk at 6: 00 a.m. 16:50.] after this discussion. I'll call attention to what. The members of the council here in the hall are saying that this resolution proposal is very important and must be completed as soon as possible. These important projects will be taken into account, as well as the projects that society has to do, immediately on a budget bill for 2021 C.E.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u19	A respectable president. That's an excellent suggestion we have here. A moving man talked about the taxes, responses and property taxes from the local community. It made me think about the words of a local minister, as well as a financial minister, who has spoken of the inability to strengthen my rural communities unless they fully exploit their income - farms. At the same time, the government lowers income taxes, reduces taxes and curses, which are good economic management in this condition, but it refuses to do the same. Furthermore, the State is taking on increased official projects, but in reality it prevents rural governments and many companies from doing the same. So public investment decreases overall. It's an interesting situation up there, that the state takes over everything, tries to do everything that is really right to do downhill; to reduce the amount of pressure and scope for people and businesses, but prevents the same thing from being done at the level of government. I wonder what. A senator has some insight into how this relationship actually works if it is a government policy to do one with one hand and one with the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u20	Mr. President. I think it's both the highest. Secretary of state government and the highest. Economic and economic ministers have been very uninformed about the business of larger rural partners and the more important services involved. Companies are three: space funds, outbacks, and then property taxes. Of course, it takes into account whether the rural communities that receive from an equation will use the expression or not. It's based on everyone working with the same percentage that I really think it's fair. But what we're saying here is that it can't work and it's not acceptable, not for the people of the country or for the business life and that it comes back from this crisis, not to meet the rural communities in this difficult situation. Of course you're right. The minister of the local government said here on a special discussion yesterday, that the situation of the rural society varies around the country, that is the case. But some obviously have such problems that they must be met. We here say in our synonym that we want it to happen in two ways, it will be through both the equations, in which certain factors are being addressed, and also proportionately out of the outback that are being carried out under the service of the people. Then, in fact, the local community requires that they reduce the property taxes, and next thing I say, more about that position.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u21	A respectable president. In a paper the other day, Kristrún Frostadóttir, chief economist of Boston's banks, reminds me of the situation of the entire community and said that to Covid they were generally well fired. Of course, the situation of your country partner differs from that you hear here, that it's the worst part of it, but in the case of Reykjavík, there's still a lower debt and a higher share ratio than the local communities around it, and there's no sign of it. In general, rural society has been well fired, even though the monotonous incomes the state has derived from the fact that the population has been cut off, etc. The trend in rural and national debt has been very similar. The quarter has increased, but debt ratios have decreased because GDP increased. It is very interesting to consider in all of this that in this context, neither the state, except perhaps the monotonous income, nor the rural communities, especially the rural communities, they have a heavier service, could do better than do it in good. They are, in fact, self-sustained in goods, but their income stocks are not sustainable in a normal year's journey and much less in a downturn. This has been for decades a problem that really happens to me, in that state wants to keep this position because it has a power to the rurals. In other words, there is a difference between power and power, and the state can tell the locals to do the other, and this in exchange for a coin to correct the situation, such as, e.g. to join. I think that's a bit of a bit of a local law-making thing that's a little bit suspicious of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u22	Mr. President. In this discussion all along, we need to take into account that rural society differs from the growth of the State. That's why it's empty talking about, I think, saying to your societies, "You're just going to have to make a debt like the state, you can just do it like the state. All you have to do is deal with this down cycle and this unprecedented time and this massive business crisis by taking a loan. Of course, over a long period of time, it is important to think about how their communities will then tackle their position of deep debt in this massive downturn. And again, they're fired like a business, not like a government fund. It is very important to keep that in mind. President. I don't quite remember the question. Maybe there was no question. A senator in the second, resists, who gives them their free hands. [[Up front.]] On one hand, the highest. Country government minister: All the communities have to do is make themselves in debt. We know that they do not receive the Kingdom's favor, so the government should have something to do with a higher borrowing rate. On the other hand, the highest. Secretary of the economy: If you're having any complaints about this situation and you're not going to tackle it on your own, we're just going to have to rethink your income. Maybe we should just take your fists off, as they do in neighboring lands. However, there is no other comparison with the neighboring countries underneath. So this is a lack of understanding on the part of the government for the important tasks that the communities have to do. They must be met in a down cycle, a historical one. Then unusual things must be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u23	Mr. President. I'm just going to enter this discussion about a concierge proposal to help my rural society with a pandemic crown. This gives us reason to discuss the situation of the rural society and how they are in Icelandic society and the role they play, and I agree with a messenger that it is very important. However, I do not intend to go through the suggestions for a team. Many of them are interesting and worth considering and discussing. This calls to my attention this speculation that the state should meet its societies directly because of a decrease in income production with additional productions. I think it might be something to consider, and in the context of a business group discussion. I feel that it needs to be in the way that the State does not form the same form of support for rural society who themselves choose to have their response to a minimum. I think it should, at least. To be some kind of condition in this regard, i.e. that before the government starts bringing money to the communities, this should be checked. The idea of a special loan party, if I understand the proposal, is very interesting. I'll admit it without witnessing to some people in town. I've also heard this idea coming from local authorities, and I think it's totally worth it. I agree with what was presented. Harðardóttir It's quite normal for your rural society to have access to the financial resources, if needed, at an elected rate comparable to the government. I'm not talking about if the government is actually assuming that the rurals owe themselves, then it has to be. I bet you can find ways to let this experience develop so that your communities really have this access to capitalism. It also speaks of the elderly's therapy fund. It is also a very fine idea to promote it. But, unfortunately, the work fund's problem is, and it's been since the last crash, let's say, no government has chosen, and there's no other authority, either the current government, the government in the collapse, or the governments between, to stick to this decrease in the budget and enter into a business. It might now be the step we should take, to risk this, what to call it, the exception that we've stuck to there, and to let the project fund get the money that he's actually going to get. I agree with transporters in that it really is important that it be done. According to some sources, rural society does not have enough income, and this may well be the case. However, they are in all basic elements of the same revenues as the government has, i.e. More than one third of individual income tax is given to the rural population, and that is not such a small amount. However, as I mentioned earlier, some societies choose not to take advantage of all the sources, that may be part of the problem. The debate on farm income is what it's all about. People have no doubt heard me talk about it before, always need to be awake, as I mentioned in my talk earlier today. The conversation that needs to take place between these administrative ladders, the state and the rural groups must be alive and active. We need to be able to approach that conversation completely with an open mind on both ends. The government has to let the local communities into the debate on farms. For example, one of them could make up a fuel and oil charge. Another could easily be access to capital tax, the share of the rural society in capital taxation. There is another example that has at times been discussed that it may be wise to consider. But it all starts with a conversation between parties. It is proper to draw attention to the fact that since I'm not sitting on this great committee, well. Environmental and transport committees, I hope so. Those questions are brought into the discussion of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u24	A respectable president. We discussed the locals' affairs last night, a good debate as the highest. The minister of the seminary participated. Of course, rural society plays a huge role in society and even more in the daily lives of the people in the country. Their ministry is an intimate service that is of utmost importance to all. That's why it's important that our rural society be able to continue, despite this great shock that we're all about to end up in, doing our job. But I also think it's very important that we discuss it on the grounds that our rural communities are independent and that we approach them on an equal base. In other words, I'm trying to say that I feel that it is important that in this room, society is not spoken down. That is why I support all conversations with my rural society and cooperation, but I also feel that their independence is very important. According to this, a large part of the measures that the government has already taken are useful to the communities as well as the households of the country and to the commercial world, e.g. the mechanism of the improvement and the prolongation of unemployment benefits. Of course, this is of utmost importance to the rural population, and it would be even more important if such measures had not been taken. Then there is reason to mention that we made a special change here, so the whole effort is also appropriate for our communities. So it is a fine opportunity to describe the investments of the rural society today that there is a new effort to make in all sorts of maintenance projects that were sadly reduced to the last collapse. In recent years, I believe most rural communities have struggled with the problem that it is simply not good to postpone the maintenance. There is one point in this suggestion that I find very interesting. Here are eight points and some are interesting, others perhaps less. But this is about the public shopping. The reason I'm especially cutting is because I've been wondering for a long time whether we need to adjust these laws in some way. I think there's an incredible waste in the system of public society, and especially of rural society and their communities, I know a little bit well there, trying somehow to get up inside these laws. It is more and less welcome, especially in certain sectors, and often it is to postpone projects. I can mention a little bit since some of my community, which is generally very well-cut, but we residents suddenly noticed in spring that grass was not struck. That was because the invitation had been precious, and then it just passed and waited for weeks where it could not be struck. Happily, it quickly improved. So I've been an interested person that we look at the laws on public shopping in this regard. I can also mention other examples, such as the health care program. THE United States has pointed out, as well as others, about public shopping laws, that a minister is actually advised to provide this service and that it is in the European Economic Area. I've wondered if there's something we need to fix in this environment. In fact, it's the text in my report, for I don't recognize that the criteria are so different between state and country when it comes to the export process. So I'm directed to the Committee that gets the case special reviews. I was reading a financial guidebook but could not quickly see that this was under way. I remember, though, since I was at the local government level that it is usually that at least the larger rural communities have regulations about shopping, and often and often the reference height is lower than the law itself say, i.e. The local community has wanted to go beyond the law in offering or getting offers for both jobs and purchases. This is, of course, because, throughout history, local communities have often been lying on their necks to see that something is going on differently, that someone is rewarded above others. You know from a smaller community of constant rumors that this or the other contractor always gets all the chores and the like. Therefore, it is very important for the rural community to have this as practical as possible, and hence, the best way always is whenever it is to take public funds to seek the best offers and that everyone is aware of who is offering it. It was something I would like to say here. I think we need to continue an important conversation with our rural communities about their independence and about sustainable rural society, about the fact that our rural communities have enough income farms, both to survive in good health and crisis. I've thought of this as a certain elephant in the room, something that is between the state and the country we've been dealing with. The only thing I know how to do that is to cut him down. Then I would like to mention in the context of the matter of those who are disabled and who still have disagreements that we are always discussing the same matters over and over again. That's why I say we have to isolate ourselves into making sure that our rural society has legitimate funds to care for that important service. But then we must also realize that we in this hall often accept laws that lead to regulations that still add to the demands of the services their communities provide and, as a result, at the expense they are due for. Surely, all of us can take something to heart in that regard. The second thing I will name, which is a constant strife between state and country, which is the trade of nursing homes. It is clear that nursing homes as defined today, with that service, are health - care issues, and as a result are a legal case that belongs to the State. It is good to know that somewhere in our community has seen or provided some benefit today in handling this business as part of our local service and with some additive effect on social services, or with the potential to negotiate with health care professionals or such. But many very large rural areas have simply said to the health minister: "Please, take this assignment again. ' The amount of pay paid is just not enough for the operation of these households. Instead of wasting money, time parties, on the other hand at the state level, and on the health department and health insurance, somehow dealing with these contracts back and forth, I thought the state would just take this business, not to run it itself, because I'm not its spokesman, but to offer it out and make the deal directly with the people who know the best about the management of a nursing home. I think there's a big organization here that does it pretty well, and that's why I think it's best if they make their own deals directly with health insurance and do it, but we're done with the fact that we don't have communities as some kind of adapter between us. Of course, there are much more to discuss here, but I'm going to be content with this. I thought it would be nice to hear from the highest level. The minister of the seminary yesterday that the committee that reviewed the local community's status in the past year and produced a report in the summer has been reassigned. I think we need to keep a close eye on our communities and have a good conversation with them at all times. I'm not quite familiar with the language that is being given at times about to be so badly fired by rural communities, and they're wasting money and such things. The vast majority of rural societies in the country are well fired and have used this great leap and the longest economic growth in history to pay off debt. As a result, they are better equipped to cope with the present crisis. Through it, we must all get together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u25	President. Hv. Apparently, a senator was not at a budget hearing earlier in the week, where treaties with the welfare community complained bitterly about contracts in which they are dealing with the State. It's not necessarily such a great story. But what I was going to talk about first is the conversation with the local community about their independence, the question: Are rural societies independent? Recently, we were dealing with cases of legalization of community members. Then I wonder about it a little, and I don't quite get it to work, how we can, if the rurals are independent, legally forced into unity. It is probable that population elections are needed, as is always the case in the case of unitedness. And what if the voters say no, will be uniting? You see, I think the current situation is a little informed about the exact details of this crime in connection with state and rural society. Farmers are supposed to be independent of the agreements we've made about the state level of government as such. The talk we've had on a budget committee about how the government's conversations have been with the local communities for the implementation of government law on public finances is one-sided. There is very little about two - sided conversation, for after all, the Kingdom is with all the trumpetes. It can only say, "No, no, no, no, no, you just have to be forced. - We're writing laws here, though I think it goes against the constitution and the terms we've signed or dosed through an equation, if that's the case. - If you get together, maybe, who knows, we'll give you a little more money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. With regard to the quality - service organization, I know that debate very well and have had a conversation even if I do not attend a financial committee and do not know exactly what has happened at that meeting. In fact, they are amazed at what has been put to a high economy on the laid amount of day - to - day expenses to pay for the ministry. I'll think about it. This matter needs to be handled well by a legal committee. In my speech, I did not necessarily admire that agreement. I was just saying, I don't feel like I have to have any adapters, enough complicated, and hard to deal is for. I don't think it's necessary for the communities to be somehow a transfer device. Of course, this has been in the process of taking part of the account. Maybe that's what I'm saying. That's unnatural, because the job is to be done in my mind, and I think it's very clear in the law, to be on the hands of the State. This is to expand the elephant instead of taking a little bit of it, make it cleaner. What is it that societies do here in this country, and what does the State do? Let's try to eliminate the gray areas. This may have been what I was trying to come on. When it comes to the independence of my local communities, the question is, Wait, but what about the law? It's a huge question, of course, and I totally understand the point. That's the case with a senator. The other question is, What's a community? In recent decades, the development of rural activities has increased and is further encouraged by close - knit services. I've said that in view, we either have to go to community unity so that they become more like cores, more like sizes and sizes, or going to a third administrative level. That's the only two solutions I've seen to make these things work out. Maybe I can explain it a little bit better next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u27	A respectable president. I can wholeheartedly say those words. Our problem is the community's organization, how different it is, and their situation for sustainability is nothing very good. But from my point of view, it's because of government restrictions. Hv. The chairman of a legal committee mentioned the same day in a speech that should be funded to the members of the rural community who need it. But there is limited help. It's not help that says, "Here's what you're going to need to become self-sustained and be able to do it on your own." There's a handout relationship between which I can't agree. I'd much rather have rural communities with independent revenues so that they can make the most of the situation, what they can think of. They should be given an alternative part, e.g. of worth, of fiscal tax, also of the company tax, so that the job structure and their employment programmes do not depend on the high population population and the number of square feet. Job construction can also be based on a small number of people in a few square metres. It can be based on the fact that when tourists travel through their rural communities and buy milk at the store, they return to the local community, that when contractors renovate houses, etc. Gives up a bit of the valuable tax from the community, not to the state. Electricians, plumbers, etc, all along, have actually just paid to the state, not to the nursery in the area. Therefore, because of the way the government has been ruled, the problem I see and have not been solved for decades is the way it has been handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u28	A respectable president. I think, to some extent, we've reached the core. You see, I think it's very important that we not let the situation now destroy the conversation that we've started about our rural society. I agree and, of course, I think it's quite normal, instead of somehow passing some kind of handout to our rural society. A senator will talk about it, if they're independent of income institutions. In fact, that is a little easier said than done. We've been talking about the host's fee for quite some time, and I know that it would not be much of a return to the state and that would probably not bring much back to the countryside. But there is one way that has been seen. Of course, they also need to look to territory. Of course, that's important. Small rural communities can have huge hotels. So, then, they're going to get the entire amount for the stay, while the big corporations, who actually serve the tourist, but don't have a place to stay, nothing to get? Of course, it would have to take care of some kind of land. I don't know about the merit tax. There's been a debate at the local scene, e.g. and that they also have more control over transport infrastructure in their areas and in other ways. I think there's a lot of opportunities here and we need to develop this conversation. I think it's better that we continue on the road we've been going on, developing a conversation about the independent business institutions of the countryside, instead of attacking some kind of Band-Aid or average operation right now. Some rural society may be in such a position that we need to do so, and we already have. That's why I also said before, of course, that we should keep up with our communities constantly. Fortunately, though, they have many opportunities to do this right now, but if it stays in six months or years, I don't know. I don't think I'd have suggested six months ago that we put billions of dollars to pay for jobs, but I agreed on it earlier today. This period of time that we have experienced in the last few weeks and in recent months is, of course, remarkable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u29	Mr. President. Before asking my question, I want to correct a mistake I made in my speech. The case is to go to the left. Economic and business committees, obviously. That's where I made a mistake, but now I've corrected this mistake. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Of course, she knows the community business well. I'd like to ask her if she thinks it's possible for a community group of 20,000,300,000 people who have lived in an 18-225% unemployment society since March to maintain services to citizens when called on high social and child protection and everything that goes with so much unemployment. There is also a requirement for completing schools and roads and footpaths that are beginning and that are exactly what the job level is. It's what it is. A senator that such a community can support services and professional levels without the State coming to help in this situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u30	A respectable president. I will be glad that this situation will come to an end. The Economic and Business Committee will allow us to continue talking about it, we who are very interested in it, and we will sit on the excellent committee. But to the question: This is obviously a cigarette town, I suppose. For a long time, that community has been coping with severe financial problems. Well, that's not just now, I'm sorry. I can totally say that it's probably just not fair to turn this operation around with this given premise. The only thing I see in it is to increase the number of job tools in the area, to make sure that my job life takes over. Of course, there is something that you can Band-Aid, and I think the state is doing, coming in with help to Smokey Town because of the circumstances in which we live. Of course, the only long-term average is to increase the number of job tools, since there is no society that survives with unemployment to this percentage, nothing. Even if we weren't talking about financial advantages there, it's just a horrible thing to see the social element that results from people having so much trouble with unemployment and for so long. That must be what we have to watch all the time, and the average must be to increase the number of employment instruments by means of advice and efficiency. Then I'm not going to doubt that there's much strength and courage in the South, that I'm going to bring new ideas and new solutions to the hardware in there. I can't see any better, without knowing that area too much but that there's a lot of opportunity, whether in the tourism field, for this international airport, but also for the metropolitan industry, knowledge, and so on. The opportunities are there with ports and airports and all the infrastructures available in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u31	Mr. President. I'm glad to be able to say what. A senator who's been very well fired for the past seven years with the United States, including the U.S.A. More than that. Fortunately, the community's financial problems had been under way and had been retreated after the majority of the Independence Party for many years. By the time of the downturn, the rural society was in such a state that it is not yet in the greatest trouble. But I, a member of a country partner, cannot see that a community with this condition can maintain top service and respond to demands that are still richer in these unusual circumstances, in close - up service unless the state steps into this crisis. Of course, I agree with what. A senator when she points to opportunities that are on many of the Southnes. But obviously it was cut out of the international airport as well, although we can see that the future can turn bright in all kinds of employment equipment, direct and indirect, in connection with the airport when we have received a vaccine against the epidemic. But there's a real emergency right now. He needs to be treated, and that's what I'm calling for. I'd like to, though, even though the clock tifi here on the table, to talk about the invitation and why we feel it's important to take these temporary measures. I agree with that. A senator when she says that rural society wants an invitation. It is a danger of corruption if we are going to pass out on a project. But it can be done now, in order to speed things up, temporarily in this emergency, and that's what we're talking about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u32	A respectable president. Whether it is a real danger of corruption or just an accusation of corruption - it is, I think, that is, of which the local government wants to avoid, and that is why even more strict regulations have been made when shopping the local community. I think there's good reason to look at this part in that room, but maybe just in the broader context. I think we need to look at these laws on public shopping that are extremely important, and I'm not going to reduce it, and I think we've achieved a great deal in the economy, especially in the state, with these laws and their implementations. But somewhere there are finger breakers, and we need to find them and fix them. A respectable president. As I told you before, I don't know a particular subject of Smokeytown or his business. At least for a long time, though, Southnes had been described as a great problem, and the unemployment there was considerably, if I recall correctly, for the present crisis. Hv. A senator entered the international airport, and I believe it, and I trust that this country's resistance will be strong and quick. When the tourist wakes up and the land opens up, I don't doubt that here in Iceland, foreign tourists will come millions to enjoy our beautiful nature. There's certainly a chance for Smokeynesville. I get it from there, I get it. There is no community to live with such unemployment. Then I'm simply saying, to me, the big thing is, and the focus is to be on it all the time, to create an opportunity for employment instead of just looking at our transfer systems and bandages. Work, employment - that's the way out of this, and it's bound to be obvious that there's no more work in Smokenestown than there is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u33	President. This is a simple suggestion: The General concluded to hide a financial and economic minister in agreement with the Environment and Resource Minister to provide a bill for changing carbon costs in order to increase or decrease according to the results of meeting Iceland's commitments under the Paris Convention the year before its stress and aim to reach Iceland's non-carbon share of 2040. At the same time, the release process will be investigated. The minister will present the bill no later than the spring council in 2021 This resolution was previously proposed to a Council of 150th, but, unfortunately, it was not granted. It is now submitted with an updated report for reports received. The proposal suggests that the Minister will provide a bill for changing environmental and resource taxes to increase or decrease the amount of carbon pay based on how Iceland's commitments have been met under the Paris Convention in the preceding year and the target of Iceland's non-carbonization in the year 204, e.g. by considering the linear reduction in emissions per year. In order to improve the effectiveness of this operation, costs are suggested to increase power growth if Iceland's commitment to Paris and its goals for non-carbon Iceland are severely met by 2040, but in the same way, a substantial reduction in emissions is achieved. In the treatment of the case at the 149th legion, the EEA pointed out that the projections of emissions do not appear until two years later. The EEA also stated that it extrapolated estimated emissions based on its current policies and actions. When the proposal was submitted to the 150th legislation, it was stated in the EEA's review of the Agency's institutions and core databases that would have had difficulties passing data to the EEA at the time specified in the Regulation on data collection and information supply, which is very interesting, due to Iceland's accounting of greenhouse gas emissions and carbon binding from the atmosphere, this delay would provide the right data in the proper format would be the primary reason to speed up emissions. Thus, when a work programme in the climate has been introduced to the National Competent Authority, the Agency proposed a fund for annual cooperation with specific projects for their programmes to facilitate the submission of data to the EEA through the release process. Transporters agree with the importance of being available earlier to real - life statistics. That's extremely important. Transporters suggest that, at the same time, there will be an analysis of ways to facilitate the submission of data at the specified time to support the application objective. Furthermore, transporters stress that carbon costs will be used in the fight against climate change, including the U.S. to support and strengthen those who are most disposed of in order to reduce emissions. It is noted that the aim of the increase is that emissions cost those who release, and thus other official restrictions will not be reduced because of increases in carbon costs. Global warming because of man - made carbon emissions is the greatest threat facing mankind. Carbon consumption has been used in the fight against climate change, and it is one of the methods that directly affect the financial resources of companies and individuals. It's not because it's really a tax increase, it's supposed to be a payment for the pollution of carbon emissions. The idea of this conference and its development occurred at the LYSU ◯ the rock festival of the conversation held in Akureyri in the fall of 2018, where the public had the opportunity to make suggestions and ideas about action in climate. They were submitted, and the following day they voted on the most effective idea to succeed. We're going to see to it that there are goals, non-carbon, Iceland 2040. There's a point at the end, and we know what we need to reach in order to get there. It is good, and it is truly positive if we are to be more effective right away. Then we won't have to be so successful later, or we'll just be in plus sooner. Of course, the value of carbon money should be affected, for it should be the cost of pollution. As we reach our goal, it is obvious that the amount of carbon production is not being contaminated should therefore be reduced. The carbon itself comes up in a sense from the Kyoto Protocol, which set the target for an economic relationship between carbon and greenhouse gases, basically put under carbon values as such. Just like we have codfish, we have carbon levels. This was, in fact, the only action the nations could make that could be practical, putting on the cost of pollution. He who pollutes a city. The aim is to bring the cost of this pollution. Pears are generally not seen to be less likely to have any tax or behavioural taxes or something like that, paying expenses. If someone pollutes with carbon emissions, in this case it has certain global effects. The effects of our pollution may not be directly affected or as much in Iceland as they do elsewhere. It's a global problem. For example, if we have such regulations, we will be able to do so. By law, that the carbon bill should take into account our goals, we should, of course, take account of our business agreements with other nations. Of course, it is not very fair if other nations have a much lower carbon price than we do, that is failing on a certain competitive basis. But that's not part of this suggestion, that's an extra discussion. I don't agree with the Environment and Resource Minister who said in special discussions a few days ago that the carbon bill should bite hard, I think he put it that way. The carbon costs are simply to be paid for the pollution of the target and, in fact, for the innovations needed to replace them with sustainable processes. If we want to eliminate this pollution, we need to invent other types of production or equipment or other things that are not contaminated. If we are to eliminate pollution, we need to dispose of the instruments and manufacturing processes that pollute and create comparable manufacturing processes that can produce the same results, they are competitive in that way. After all, we have the same production, we have the same opportunity, but we don't pollute. When society succeeds, we should have a built - in reward for the result, so that when pollution disappears, the tax below is also gone and should be paid for this pollution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u34	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for bringing this stuff back. I might want to start at the end of the report, on the origin of the case, which is the conversation with the public at LYSU. It was a very fun way of getting an idea and working on it, and it's a good thing we can talk about it here in the Hall. There are some things I would like to ask the senator about. First, this idea that, in fact, the carbon bill is earmarked so that it goes from contaminated industry to some green, it goes back to society to help with the green transformations that need to take place in a more righteous way. Because of what? A senator on a financial committee may know him better than the person present may be disturbed by the earmarks of income companies, whether he could cross it with me. But I think it's the monopoly that this is how it's supposed to be done. It may not be a material discussion about the carbon itself in this matter, it's just that it becomes some sort of automatic swinger, we can call it. But what zero point should be used? As it is today, National Security, e.g. In connection with the budget bill that it needs to be doubled or tripled, it is not to refer to the greenest experts, that is the World Bank that is the criteria there. If we were just looking at the balance of prices from the implementation of environmental and resource taxes, it would probably have to be raised considerably, too. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it not also true that today the price is too low?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u35	Mr. President. We have asked for certain cost analysis on the charges we are taking because of our emissions, the carbon costs, and other factors, if appropriate, and the expenses we are about to spend in order to meet the commitments we are trying to meet. Like what? A senator puts it that it is hard to answer such a question, but he will see what comes out of this inquiry. The goal is to try to keep some balance there. We don't want to have zero, it's supposed to be a little flexible, sometimes a little more and sometimes a little smaller, and after all over the next ten years or something like that, we should be relatively close to zero, at least within certain limits. The cost analysis has been requested at this point to see the position that will move to this point of reference. We should see, then, more or less whether our expenses cover the cost. Therefore, in the synonym, it is stated that if the aims are not reached, the pay should be raised to power, e.g. double. If we do not achieve our objective, it is obvious that the cost is too low and is to be raised considerably, raised enough to be achieved quickly, we will pay for the pollution. Similarly, if the results are far better, we will lower the price, but more slowly. They don't say "power growth" in the decline. It should be included in the analyses, correctly diagnosed in the annual reports.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u36	Madam President. It's a little bit fun that in the final implementation of the case, the EEA's review of how badly we're having our numbers and information in general about climate and this time masquerade made it clear that there is even a two-year delay in numbers on which the decision can be suspected. I'm trying to form this into a question to get the senator to discuss it only with me because then we're on the other side, that the government pays once a year. We're in a bit of a time frame, by the way. As fun as the idea is, then, I wonder: Is it realistic that we have such a deep-mutated device between two rigid systems that are also on a high - speed drive? That's different. The other thing is we spoke here at the zero point. I'd like to talk about the finish line, too. What are your goals? The Paris Convention is about the world's state commitment to try to maintain warming within 1.5°C but not at all above 2°C. This development, in turn, involves a percentage of the countries in contractions of emissions that are what the carbon pay would be talking about. The 40% objective of the government today is, for example, long-range. It needs to be updated this year, and it may need to be updated once or twice until the Paris Convention reaches an endpoint. What, then, would be our goal as an endpoint in focusing on this linear recession?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u37	A respectable president. We have these rigid frames that are en route in the whole system here in Iceland. We'll have annual accounts late, and a quarter of the state's accounts will be all too late when they can be made much faster elsewhere because it can be done. But it's not done here. This process goes right up for two years on these climate statistics, which is a problem number one. It must be resolved first in order to do so. There must be a more flexible and more information available to make decisions that this proposal for action wants to be based on. Which end is the point, it's set in the motion, the aim of achieving Iceland's carbon share of carbon space by 2040. So the Paris Convention is a base, it goes longer than we have this extra date, a non-carbon of 2040. At least when we get there, we're not polluting, and the cost is gone. Even if there's still some pollution, we're going up against it in some other way, e.g. with trees or benzodicarbons or various other possibilities. It will still be polluted, it will still be a carbon charge until we have completely eliminated the use of such a source or manufacturing process. That would have to be a goal after 2040. Let's start with a non-carbon, then we'll get the next headache.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u38	Madam President. We'll discuss a synopsis proposal for a little original and creative approach to how to prepare the government currency system. That carbon costs, the charges that are part of what is used in the fight against climate change, take into account how we are able to combat climate change. As we spoke here in opposition, me and what. I'm sure it's a challenge for the inflexible system Gunnarsson the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the financial process that the Parliament Leví each year to adopt this approach. But this is worth all the discussion, something that I eagerly await to see what comes out of the following discussion of the Committee. There are a few things I would like to remind you, perhaps regarding carbon expenditures in general, which I think are totally relevant to this matter. First, I want to review how the laws discussed here came into existence, i.e. environmental and resource taxes set in 2009. It says that the cost of each ton of carbon dioxide is 4,000 cents. It is often difficult to calculate from numbers in the income video each year. But last May, I looked up a report by the World Bank that compares the value of carbons worldwide. There the experts estimate that Iceland's carbon bill is about 4,235 k. per ton of carbon dioxide. This is by no means even a price update on 4,000 bucks. published by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. If that 4,000 bar. would've followed the price of it if it were 5,000 today. So, in fact, the payment on environmental and resource taxes has fallen to real value since it was laid, even though the current government may rightly boast about raising it in two steps during the first two years of the ideal period. It's just not enough to hold on to prices once, let alone enough to work on, for example. Face the fact that in 2020, it is clear to all that the severity of climate crisis is far more than 2009. All climate operations should have been intensified every year since 2009, but unfortunately, they have failed with their carbon costs. Then I'd like to mention where to put the base line. We talked about this a little bit when we were talking about it, me and what. A senator, because the International Cash Fund, as a witness to another international agency, estimates that if we are going to reach the 2°C target in the Paris Convention, we will have to be a economic motivation for climate targets on average $75 per ton if we are to reach the 2°C target. It must be higher if we are to reach 1.5 °C, which is the more ambitious goal. There's about 30 dollars in Iceland on carbon. So they fail to be half of the world average that the World Bank calls for. My guess is that it's on the basis of what national protection suggests in its review of bill to legalize the changing of various laws due to budgets in the autumn, that the carbon bill will be raised over the next few years in steps so that it will be 2-23 to 3 times what it is today. Perhaps that is what a environmental minister means when he says the price is to be bitten. I understand why. A member of the body feels that it is an exhilarating expression. It can also be said that in this way the economic motivation would be assured that the economic incentive would take care of the goal he has to pursue, because even if we went up to this higher amount, it would be just the economic motivation for climate change. The actual cost of emissions is much higher. It's hard to figure it out, naturally. The actual cost is an increase in the frequency of violent weather. Its damage is due to malaria moving north, an increased frequency of forest fires, and a wide range of side effects in climate change, except for the natural environmental impacts of the nearby community, such as respiratory diseases near the road streets and what it is now called. If all the effects of carbon dioxide emissions were combined, the real cost would not be the $75 listed by the International Cash Fund, but possibly something much higher. The German Environment Agency may have to charge 200 euros in Germany to cover the real cost of German society's emissions. It would be exciting to see it calculated for the Icelandic community whatever it is we, and future generations need to carry the cost of unregulated emissions. We could then start aiming at carbon costs and other expenditures in this area so that they reflected the real damages of modern activity, so we can seriously introduce the pollution prevention rule in this matter. There wasn't much more I wanted to mention, except that I'm very pleased with the tone of the report, that this will not be a income stock, because I think too much green taxes slip into public business. Green taxes are supposed to be economic incentives to reduce gray activities, but they are also used to pay off greens. Another example would be the price on cars when they are brought in. Today, we have a system of subsidizing clean energy cars, which is part of the reason for the success of increasing their share in driving in Iceland. But it's very expensive. It is costly to place billions of new cars each year in the subsidies of new cars. But it can be achieved by allowing the fuel trucks, those burning fossil fuels, to cost a little more by letting the cost of goods reflect the environmental impacts they produce, while allowing them to increase their product costs to flow into the system to support the reduction of goods on the other side. Thus we can further speed up the positive developments that have occurred in transport energy exchange. I was just going to have a few words, but I had the privilege of filling my speech. But mostly, I wanted to thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for providing a subject that at least provides a wonderful basis for discussing how we prepare the system for supporting the green transitions we have to undergo in the coming decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u39	A respectable president. In our current employment policy, which was adopted at our last district convention, which finished our business work in 2018, it continued to be a continuation of this topic at the National Parliament in the fall, but we delayed that part to the next spring, says: Achieving competition, sustainability, equality, and innovation are practices that are to exist in all businesses. And only later, it says: However, most of all, companies need stability in economic setting and simple regulations. In view of our emphasis on this fundamental policy of competition, freedom, and simple order, this is a matter, including ours. stated, but we are also convinced that it is of vital importance that we increase and strengthen the European agriculture of what we can do best. But it must be guided by the fact that we raise farmers and consumers on the other hand, that is, interests that go together. And we need to develop Icelandic agriculture so that it can grow and thrive here until the next few years and decades. In our opinion, that will not be done in the same system. The system needs to be cleaned up, but the system provides Icelanders with the highest price on agricultural products, while farmers deliver the lowest price in all relative to European countries. There's something in this system that we want to improve. With emphasis on competition, we include. To reroute this bill we've moved to 149 and 150th legislature. This case has changed slightly since we last moved it. Or it may be that 85 C.E. a in 1993 farming was removed by law on the change in agricultural products of 2019. This is in accordance with the decision of the Ministerial Conference of the International Business Agency since December 2015. In 2018, however, the case went to the job committee last, and then we sent it to the Contestance Commission. That's where we even came from. until the bill was aimed at promoting agriculture competition and granting farmers freedom to choose how their products were reserved, granting farmers the freedom to do more for themselves. This would lead to an increase in competition for production, global sales and retail markets, but it was also suggested that innovation and competition play a role, as we have seen many times. There are a number of examples, such as farming, fishing, or anything else, in which we see that competition and innovation are highly compatible and that one factor can exist without the other. The objective of the bill is to increase the freedom and autonomy of the manufacturer's products for the marketing of their products in national and national markets. This includes some. to eliminate the provision of agricultural regulations, that is a special rule in the dairy industry, and to reduce the exchange of the government's prices, production, and processing - to reduce the interference of the government. I would have generally thought that the members of the Independence Party, I may not have the same requirement for the Central Party, would rejoice that we were trying to reduce the involvement of the State of Business Affairs, to keep the box simple, to make competition valid, to let freedom hold and to support farmers by a different route than to customs protection, rather to increase the direct strength to farmers in agriculture to decide for themselves what they want to do, what way they value the best way to grow their soil. In the current law, farmers have a special position that will be compared most to the status of employees in the service of their products and the public. We feel that the status of farmers is not strong enough when it comes to dealing with the products and government authorities. To help improve the quality of farmers, a rule must be made that enables farmers to work and market their products or as they choose. In this way, they will be able to work as employers and enjoy the benefits of opening their homes to open markets. The bill of this is therefore suggested that the European Commission and the European Commission submit to the European Commission and the European Commission of the European Union, the European Commission, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Environment Agency, the European Parliament, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, and the European Environment At the same time, it is suggested that authority be submitted to make a preconceived requirements for products or individual production products, to give more advice to the market. Then we say: At the same time, we change the program and try to increase our direct strength to farmers against greater freedoms. Furthermore, according to Article 71. agricultural negotiations to negotiate between prices for milk production and dairy products. The 2004 law was passed by law on the change in production, prices, and sale of farms, which date 1993. At that time, economic problems consisted of most areas of agriculture, largely due to adverse management modules and law-oriented institutions and the milk industry, in order to balance national facilities for individual agricultural facilities and distances from the largest markets. The number of produce in the milk industry has decreased, and much economy has taken place during the 15 years that the law has taken place in the agricultural industry. To ensure competition for milk markets and thus contribute to innovation and product development, it is necessary to ensure access to the raw milk/unbound milk in free language. There are many opinions of the Contestance Commission over the use and interpretation of competitive law. This bill suggests that a large issue of exception from conditions of competition will be removed. If the bill is legalized, the key causes of conflict exist as a result of the application and interpretation of exceptions from competitive farming laws. As I say, we believe it is important to build a healthy, strong agricultural system on the basis of these traditional rules of competition, freedom, innovation, and equality. The bill is based on current laws and regulations in the neighboring countries of Iceland. In Iceland's commitment log that the GATT agreement allows for Iceland's commitment to provide services from Member States of the International Business Agency with access to their market. It also stipulates commitments in Iceland to avoid having rules that include discrimination, which is in the interests of national service providers. The bill is divided into two chapters, one of the changes in agricultural regulations, No. 99/1993, however, No. 70/1998. Chapter I of the bill suggests a change in the purpose of a livestock layer that sharpens the importance of open farming competition, and I would have thought it would be a cause of joy for some. The chapter also recommends that producers make a personal arrangement for making contracts on the grounds of the law, yet they are permitted to assign their priors to, or to establish, other organizations to that purpose. It will then remove the law's law that treaties should be binding on the producers of that company whether they are partners in Iceland's Farm Organization or stand outside, and instead that treaties on the basis of the law are only binding for those producers, farmers, who consider to be parties to each contract. - They're underlining the freedom of farmers, that they're not bound by the contracts they're out of. The chapter suggests some wording changes in the law, aimed at balanceing the position of all the manufacturers, whether they belong to the National Institutes of Iceland or other organizations, or not to an organization. Then all the regulations on the prices committees and the implementation committees of domestic contracts, as I mentioned earlier, are removed. The purpose of this is to reduce the central control of prices and increase the independence of farmers as the market manufacturer. Achieving the prices of the agricultural sector will also help to improve the growth of the agricultural sector. I think it's very important for farmers and for anyone who loves Icelandic agriculture to make the network more transparent, understandable, because me and the Icelanders are willing to support our agriculture. They're powerful goods, they're goods for agriculture, but we'd also like to know where they're going. We believe that through the transparency the support, understanding, cohesion is involved in Icelandic agriculture. Along with the change in laying down the prices board, it is also appropriate to establish bones for farmers, such as I could before, which contribute to the growth of innovation and better use of land and quality. This is a key to our judgment that their concentrations will be directed to farmers themselves so that they can further control themselves on how they want to manage their land and land use, encourage their strength to innovation, as well as their own better use of land and quality. I think that there are a lot of parishions there, especially about how we use it. Let's think about climate, think about the environment; few, if any, are better qualified to live under a more powerful environmental and climate policy than just farmers themselves. Il. section of the bill is suggested that the implementation of the European Commission contracts shall be removed and submitted to changes that reduce the effectiveness of Iceland's National Farmer Association as representative of the manufacturers for negotiations and negotiations with the State. We are stressing that the position of farmers who choose not to be members of the Basis will be as strong as those within the great organization. 14th degree. The bill also stipulates the growth of agricultural support and the State Fund for environmental protection, innovation, forestry, sealing of forward operating operations, the development of microindustries and tourism. These are all the points we're focusing on in action, and the company of the bill, believe it's important, to emphasize these factors exactly, the colony, the forestry, the environment, the infrastructure. We need to discuss further how we can become self-sustained, e.g. Regarding harvests, grain barns, how we will try to achieve the most of our own structure in the nuclear plant. We feel that it will be achieved by changing the focus of the agricultural growth and by trying to promote even greater motivations, including some of them. Through the agri-environment schemes fund, they promote innovation in this area, even to the development of microdoers. And it is a pleasure to see how farmers are exploiting the closer environment and technology, thus contributing to the environment. The significant changes are extensive, but in the opinion of the shipping bill, it is designed to improve the interests of Icelandic farmers and to promote healthy competition on markets, farmers, and consumers for the benefit of all. I hope that a professional health committee will discuss the matter. I'm an agent on the pro board, and I've been hard to get a objective discussion on the subject, let alone that it's taken care of. I realize, as the committee is now planned, that there are not many people who will support this case. But this is one of the matters I think it would be interesting to get paid in this chamber, so that it will be clear who will be supporting matters like this, with sound rules on competition and increased support for farmers and consumers at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u40	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change of damage laws, No. 50/1993, with subsequent changes (grape development). Besides me, the carriers of Sæland Gourand and the Helgi Holy of Hrafn Gunnarsson. The bill reads: - Uh-huh. - Instead of the word "Vanctuary," 1st Advantage 1. Section 15. The law comes: pay number. 2.g. Twenty-nine. The law says, "False values under these laws are based on the pay sheet as it was on July 1, 1993 (131.3), and are making the same changes as mentioned in Article 15. Section 3. This law already comes into effect.◯ The subject of this bill is found in the bill submitted to the 150th legislature (430th case) but not to be decomposed. That bill also discussed the pursuit of damages. Rather, it is better to put matters into the separate primary places. So this bill only discusses the basis for regular updates of money damages. The subject of the bill is the same as in the former bill submitted to the 150th legislature, but minor changes in formal nature and number content are updated. In terms of changes in GPA rates, but this index is not used to calculate prices. In view of the advances in prices, there will be an urgent need to change the damage laws so that their funds will change in proportion to changes in the measures generally used in terms of price assessment. There are two criteria to consider, the index of consumer prices and the pay number. The purpose of damages is to achieve damage to the same extent that if it had not been damaged, it would aim for annual remuneration, according to 1 mg. Section 6. and 7th pars. The law. When permanently evaluated, disability is largely seen to the effect that disability has on its ability to earn income. Therefore, there is reason to reference the pay number when the amount of money is permanently determined. It should be noted that in April 1995, a credit card number was no longer used to guarantee new financial commitments and instead was used by the index price for insurance. The credit card was 3,282 points at a level of damage repair, but it now stands at 9,290 points. As a result, economic damage laws have increased by 183% from their receipt, and today the minimum per year rate for the age of 66 and for the younger 3,396,709 k. and 1,132,236K. for 74 years and older, as per 3 mg. 7. The law. This amount is considerably lower than the lowest salary in a general labour market. As salary increases above prices, the protection of the damage laws has reduced the lives of people who have not been fully employed in the past three years before an accident. These include: Young people who have not worked full - time, mostly at home, and older citizens. The average total income in 1993 was 1,236,000. But the sum was 6,871,000. in 2019 C.E. So these groups do not now enjoy the same protection, and the damage laws ensured them in validation. The remuneration rates were 131.3 points, but 736.1 points in August 2020, resulting in an increase of 560%. If the money of the law is given to the current pay sheet, the minimum limit of the 3 mg is rising. 7. The law for the age of 66 and the age of 3,396,709. of 6,53,694 K. Prior to 74 years and older, minimum targets would increase from 1,132,927 k. of 2,117,898 k. There is an 87% increase from the minimum endpoints shown in Table 3 mg. 7. The law. As a result of this change, the laws of the damage laws would fail to provide the same protection for those with a low income as they did for their taking. That is why there is a question in this context. In fact, the Justice Department declared in protests at the council that these measures were to be changed because of the fact that the scales of the income as they are currently in damage laws, they are bound to have an absolute problem, and it is quite unlikely that up to 100%, or 87%, will be on wages, or if they are involved in accidents today. In English this means that the work of a group of people who might be involved in accidents is being reimbursed and paid nearly twice as much as they should get. Added to this is the fact that it is not easy for individuals who have accidents fighting the legal army of insurance companies and their high financial standing. The insurance companies use this method when the person lands e.g. In a car accident, damage is appreciated, and a certain amount is paid into the so - called debt of compensation. This amount will then be in this reserve until the damage is paid up. Unfortunately, in many cases, the amount will always be in there. Sadly, the fact is that when people suffer accidents, they are not getting the benefits they have the right to receive. A number of methods are used to make sure that people do not achieve their rights to insurance companies, e.g. abduction. People can't afford to sue insurance companies and the longer the situation becomes delayed, the harder it is for the person to fight to get complete compensation and often approve of people in a rape defense offer offered by an insurance company far below what can be considered normal. The fact that the amount is nearly twice as low as it should be also shows that there is something wrong with this system, and the question is, Are the damage laws legal today? I'm putting a question mark on it because the purpose of a damage law is to add, as noted, the cost of an accident that people will face, so that they will not be worse afterwards. The situation should be no better than people should not be any worse. But the way it is today, people are twice as bad as those numbers, so it's a question of how this can be done and why no one has done anything about it. We have to figure out that we're aiming at 1993. It's long time for us to revise these damages. For some reason, a minister of justice comes after a minister of justice who is to take care of it, it is a minister to arrange for these laws to be right, and to do nothing. Who, then, is to be defended by the minister of justice? Surely, not the victims, but the need to focus on defending insurance companies. And what does it mean in human languages when insurance companies throw money into a credit fund and don't have to pay for more than fractions of what goes in there? It means that there will be huge financial collections. In that way, insurance companies can be used for good, in certain investments, and in growing numbers. These funds are never made up in Iceland. They just swelled out, and we even saw in the collapse of the time that the benefits went on a trip around the world, he went to the Cayman Islands or to Tortoles, and ended up as a luxury apartment in China and came back, I think, and ended up as a pledge at the bottom of the pool of Elfunes, if I recall the correct ring of it a strange thing. I ask myself, " Why are these laws so that we do not act like civilized nations and make up this treasure? ' These are for the better of people's losses, not to allow insurance companies to play and gruel with this money on the market, but for some reason the government comes by government, the Minister of Justice, after the Minister of Justice, and does nothing about it. Sadly, it also tells us that people better not realize that if they have an accident, they have the right to gain improvement. But do people get it better? That's the question. I say in the first place: As the situation is today, it is most unlikely. Second, it will take a long time. Third, each one is likely to end his disability. If these coins were to be returned to those who have a right to them, I am also sure that a large number of people who run into disability could use the money they need to change, study, do something else, they don't need to worry about money, and as a result, they will be better equipped to deal with the harm they suffer when they suffer, I don't talk about when people get seriously injured, and I'm not going to end up in a disaster that happens both to the individual and his family. That is why I say we have an obligation at the Council to see to it once and for all that it will be handled. I really hope that this case has its start, and I expect it will go to the General and Education Committee and I really hope it will be taken care of. I can't imagine, considering the words I've heard, but to the highest. The Minister of Justice will support this because she spoke for herself about taking these laws, rethinking them, and especially these sums because they are supposed to be and not being able to do anything but be it's probably because it tells itself that they are to reflect the financial damage they are going to receive, and therefore the only criteria that can be used are the only one to use because it is the standard that tells us what the salary was, but not as they are today, which is half the amount below. Then today the law is a sort of property recording on the pay of the injured person. That could never have been the purpose of this law. From every point of view, if this case doesn't pass, the lawgiver is saying, and we at the Council, that it's acceptable, that it is acceptable, that those who have accidents get half as much as they should have, and that's just normal. It doesn't work out, so logically, so I hope so much that this case will have its own fulfillment and be approved here as a law so that at least once we've made sure that all of it is correct and that those who suffer accidents and suffer an accident have an accident to go and look to insurance companies for their rights and get their damages, as the law says, will do their damage to the full and, as a result, the law is absolutely clear to pass it. Sadly, though, while the law is the way it is, people will not be able to undo it. It is only about a little more than half that way, and it is not able to make up for the full amount of money because it is very difficult to get the right one. I now separated the failure rate from this case because one smells about these matters is that it takes a lot of money to go to war with insurance companies and try to get what they want, there's going to need a courted cook, even food. In order to be able to cope with this, the laws of slavery need to be strictly strict, and unfortunately, it is not easy to go as I ask myself, " Why not? ' Why, on the other hand, is it not within the law that many people already have in insurance laws, their own insurance rights, the right to take a case, that people get paid, and that they are guaranteed to be able to take a case? That's supposed to be normal. Something else is unnatural. This should be certain that those affected will be able to pursue their case if they need and suffer improvement. That's what the law is for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u41	A respectable president. I hereby suggest a resolution on the evaluation of the health-related prevention of older people. It reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide a health minister to assess the health benefits of older people with emphasis on physical and health, daily physical activity, and diet. Secretary will explain the results of this assessment at the spring council of 2021.How's it going to be? This resolution was proposed to the 150th legislature and is now submitted unchanged. In most lands, residents are growing older and older, so it is important to examine their health. Research suggests that active lifestyle and variety of training have many health-related benefits as well as training may reduce some risk factors associated with increasing age. Effective Life - Styles include It involves regular exercise, which involves air - dependent training and training. Such training has shown its value in the cardiovascular, pulmonary, musculoskeletal system. From pooled studies, training may have positive effects on body weight, physical function, daily activities, and other health-related quality of life, especially in the case of weak older ones. Data on the daily movement of the public indicate that more than one third of mankind does not meet the recommended minimum of daily activities. Despite much knowledge of the positive effects of regular movements, movement is decreasing. In 2009, the proportion of people on earth who were inactive or who did not move to a loss of sensitivity was estimated to be about 17%. In studies, the mortality rate is related to disease as a consequence of immobilisation. This number is thought to be even higher, or about 30% higher, for certain ischaemic cardiovascular conditions. In 2007, it was estimated that by moving sedentary people to exercise, about 5.5 million deaths from non-infectious diseases could be prevented. Global apathy has increased despite increasing knowledge of training techniques that lead to better health. This situation is compared to a pandemic, since it involves not only health but also economic, environmental, and social consequences. A respectable president. A recent report by the U.S. health care authorities provides important indications relating to the health of individuals aged 65 years and older. The main factors mentioned that promote good health are regular exercise, desirable nutrition, and avoiding tobacco smoking. In contrast, major factors risking health of the older age groups are decreased physical activity, poor fruit and vegetable consumption, obesity and tobacco smoking. Laboratory data from 2011 indicated that approximately 33% of subjects 65 years of age and older did not exercise, 73% ate less than five fruit and vegetables per day, 24% were obese, and 8% were smokers. These data show the importance of developing a health-related intervention in countries with the aim of preventing health-related risk factors and, at the same time, improving specific activities and desirable nutritional intake among older age groups. At the same time, the goal must be to increase the self - esteem of older ones in order to care for their own health and to take greater responsibility for their own health and well - being. Chronic diseases are a major threat to health, progress, and economic growth worldwide in the years and decades, in the opinion of cardiovascular surgeon Karl Andersens and Guðnason Vilhjálmur the son of Guðmna, the director of the Heart Protection. Most chronic diseases are due to the bad ways of life that the nations have developed over the last 50 years. In Guðlaugsson Guldson's Physics and Sciences, Janus wrote that with simple, inexpensive control measures, time can be very effective with health - related prevention. Then there are some well - known risk factors with simple and inexpensive measures that have significantly affected our health and well - being in recent decades. Examples of such risk factors are type 2 diabetes mellitus, i.e. acquired diabetes, and metabolic error, a cardiovascular risk factor. This fact is underscored by Janus's Dr. The project has been conducted in the city of Rhines since 2017 and in Hafnarfjörður since 2018. Maintaining health instead of treating disease only is a much less expensive and effective approach to improving human health, as assessed by experts of the world's major health institutions. All nations are now facing a tremendous increase in the increase in the long - standing life - style of disease for the next few decades. In parallel to this situation, older age groups will increase dramatically in the coming years and decades, making the problem even more difficult. The number of elderly 67 years of age and older will increase dramatically in the years to come. According to Economics assessment, an increase of about 61% in this age group can be expected for the next 15 years. So this group goes from 42,000 to 68,000 people. As a result of this increase, there is an increase in the cost of living and nursing. The estimated cost of a person in nursing homes and nursing homes is about 13 to 15 million. K. This year, the estimated number of elderly citizens who are in the institution is over 3,500. Thus, the total cost of caring for these individuals is about 50 billion dollars. every year. This 61% increase in population aged 67 years and older cannot be expected to result in an increase of 31 billion. over the next 10 to 15 years. Thus, the cost will be about 81 billion. about 2030. They're only talking about nursing a nursing home. In the coming years, there can be no further increase in the cost of nursing care projects as there is no new way to inexpensive services. There is a danger that only household business could cause the health system to be crushed. Aside from the high costs expected from the nursing home in the coming years, there are anticipated major changes in the labour market. According to the Office, in 2011 there were almost six individuals in the workforce behind a 67 - year - old and above. After ten to fifteen years, it can be assumed that there will be only about three individuals behind a 67 - year - old and 2.7 in 2051. This trend further contributes to the need to find new ways to build up the health and well - being of the people of the land. Recent research, supported by British scientists, has shown that investments in health - related prevention pay much back. Recent British science, Return on Investment of Public Hospitalisations: a Systematic Review, by British experts from various medical institutions and universities in Britain, provides a clear picture of the benefits of health - related prowess. The researchers, following a summary of 52 studies in health-related prophylaxis, concluded that the profit of local investments within the provinces was one to fourteen. This means that every dollar invested in health - related prophylaxis will be returned fourteen times. The value of these precursors increases, and it becomes one in the 27th century. Guðlaugsson Guðllundsson, doctor of sports and health studies, who has worked with this case in this country for a very long time, points out that it is possible to delay the admission of older persons to a nursing home for a few years and may even be prevented. This conclusion draws him from the results of his long-term research project in Réjanestown and Hafnarfjörn. The parameters used for, performance, strength, motor skills, increased daily activities as well as improved diet and assessment of health and well-being of individuals all over the years are improving by participating in progressive health benefits despite advancing age. The older ones will feel much better as well as may affect key cardiovascular risk factors by organized exercise and improving diet. The financial benefits of such health are high. For example, if there is a delay in the admission of 500 people to a nursing home for just one year, the government, especially the country, is about 6.5 billion dollars. The health - care providers with medical and other health care professionals have an important role in the coming years, especially in finding new ways to improve their health and the use of health - related benefits on this road. So it is essential that athletes and health experts and physical therapists assist these professionals and provide effective intervention to prevent chronic disease in our community. This has an opportunity for future development in the medical profession. Here, too, there is opportunity to make health care more expensive for the public as well as for the people themselves. Longevity has increased in recent years, and a greater proportion of people have reached their retirement years. Longevity is amongst other things. As a result of their changed life - style and culture. With better integration of medicine and public health measures, aging can be done better in the future. How desirable it must be to cope with these changes and to reduce the number of chronic illnesses, rather than see them grow in the coming years and decades with increased costs and difficulties! It is estimated that about 40% of European adults suffer from at least one chronic disease, and two - thirds of those reaching retirement have two or more chronic diseases. It is costly to be under constant medical supervision, and medicines are expensive, for the public and for the individual. The number of acute myocardial infarctions has decreased by 66% over the past 25 years. This change has resulted in an 80% reduction in mortality due to acute atherothrombotic Aspelundur, in the opinion of Thor Aspeund, professor of University of Iceland, and specialist in Heart Protection. The improvement in medical and medical treatments and health care professionals for these conditions is only a quarter of the change, with three quarters explained by positive changes in the country's main risk factors; smoking, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure. Most of these factors are attributed to lifestyle changes in individuals who lost their diet and lack of exercise. Sadly, there is still a problem in which diabetes and obesity were working against even better results. If health care measures, such as health care, improve health-related quality of life in all age groups and become able to care for rapidly increasing age populations, the key to improving health-related prophylaxis as improving and changing diets, daily activities, and social management are guided by groups. The State's contribution to health - related prevention needs to be increased by 1.5◯3% of the total government's contribution to health. Such contributions can make a big difference for the nation of Iceland so that chronic diseases can wind down, grow old society, and increase the balance of health expenses in the coming years and decades. A respectable president. I've read this piece of paper that's remarkable. This proposal is part of three draft proposals dealing with a changed picture in the health - related prevention of older people and taking new steps that are extremely important, as presented here. My comrades, what? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson son of Gunn and Gudjon Guðjón Brjánsson of Brán, bring their concierge on a similar matter, and they are in some way brought together. I propose, a respectable president, that this council-sense proposal will go to what? A welfare committee, but her agents are beside me. Councilmen Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Guðnánsson S. Brjánsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Halldóra Mogensen, Hanna Friðriksson Fridursson and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u42	Madam President. I hereby suggest a resolution on the increased legal rights of foreigners, along with the surrogacy. Councilmen Ari Guðmundsson, Sirordi Óttarsson Proppér, Lilja Rafi Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, and The Steinunn, Árnadóttir Auradótir. The suggestion is the highest. Social Affairs and child-friendly officials arrange for a team of personnel to offer suggestions on improving the employment rights of citizens outside the European Economic Area, EFTA and the Faeroe Islands. These are some of the people we believe best to sit in this group; the European Union of Iceland, BSRB, BHM, the European Union of employment and the Icelandic community, as well as several recruitments. We suggest that the proposal be submitted no later than June 1 of the following year and that the Minister introduces the recommendations by the Council of the Council for the coming Council of 2021. The 2001 job rights laws apply to foreign sources for employment in this country. Under the law, the principle is that foreigners need employment and residence permits to work in a domestic labour market, while certain sources are expected from that principle, on the other hand, to be long-term inaccessible from work permit and, on the other hand, a temporary work permit. The potential for citizens outside the European Economic Area, EFTA or the Faeroe Islands to obtain employment and residence permits in Iceland is a fairly limited violation of the law on foreign employment rights. There is some evidence that people who turn to this country for that purpose will be moved to go into another labour market, such as an application for international protection. Different ways to settle in your country, whether short or longer, are essential. It has to be said that it will be not only to those whose main wishes are to come here to work but also to the knowledge and experience that they have of our culture, our economy, and our community. In view of these views, it is important that the movers begin to investigate the changes in foreign living conditions permanently. The world's conditions, as we know, have increased dramatically in recent years. War, civil war, impaired human rights, and climate are among the factors that cause people to seek a better life elsewhere. So it is vital that procedures be explained and that people who are looking here and who want to sit here have access to the right information based on their status. Not all of the people here are falling under a definition of refugees, and it is important for them to look for ways other than applying for international protection they want to live and work here. With this suggestion, the Ministry of Social Affairs is assigned to appoint a group of workers who are expected to develop suggestions on how to improve employment privileges and their prospects for settling in here. The task force shall examine the legal requirements of foreigners and the need for further legal adjustments to form a law on foreigners from 2016, to reach the above targets, and to see if there is any other means available. As we work together, we suggest that the laws of other countries and their experience in this regard be looked into, as well as be careful to conform to international commitments. In contrast, the target should be determined on the basis of potential impacts on labour markets, society and economics. In this regard it is important to have a guard over the Icelandic labour market model and to ensure that the rights of the Icelandic labour market in collective labour agreements and legislation will be guaranteed to those who come here to work. It is essential that there be different discussions with different professions so that different circumstances can be met among them. In the areas where there are certain qualifications for education or qualications, they should be made aware that those who receive employment permit meet the conditions set out here, e.g. on the length or input of education. In this context, you might include see if additional studies might be offered so that candidates can meet those criteria. The experience in Sweden may be considered where a short study has been offered to enable candidates to meet the criteria in that country. It is also important to consider whether the transition may be made to a temporary employee's employment permit, as this often leads to an increase in employment practices between the employee and the employee. It has to be considered a member of the trade union important to ensure that its staff's rights are rights. In addition, it is worth considering the right such staff in the public system, such as unemployment benefits. It would also be appropriate to examine the ecosystems environment and to see if changes must be made in order to prevent its abuse. And as mentioned earlier, the group is expected to submit proposals to a minister in the middle of the next year, or June 1. A respectable president. I've been over the matter the way it comes of the cow, as they say. In itself, there may be no need to extend it further. We know how all these matters have developed. One of the things that have been signed now is a change in the Regulation that makes it possible for foreign citizens outside the European Economic Area to stay a little longer here on land than before, e.g. to work at foreign companies on telecommunications. It may be primarily due to this Covid situation. Of course, there is something more to do than what this matter is about. We're here dealing with people who want to come to work in general, that they don't have to be subject to the signs that may be in the language that was being signed in the days, but certainly need to be, and also make a difference in the job market. We know that getting in here, applying for a social security number, whether you're on the land or not. That's a lot of thresholds. I really hope that this group that has been appointed to do this will get this case out of hand and come to some conclusion. I think it's long since time for us to take the favor of these foreign - language matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u43	A respectable president. I'm going to first thank the story, this is a matter of dealing with the alienities that we seldom discuss compared with the other side, so to speak, who are the trustees, the refugees. They often mix, as we experienced, e.g. When the Albanians became prominent in our security system, but they could have benefited from a system that offered a easier living permit on the basis of employment. This is a need for change and a long time, so you can't see that Iceland is too shut down. We need more and more variety. This is a long - term change that has been mentioned regularly in connection with some of the things that are being heard, just about those seeking refuge that become part of the news. In this case, rather than altering the security system, there should be an emergency system, which should be used to ensure that people outside the EEA have a more efficient way in which people work, as directed here. I think it was heard from the representatives of every class of the government. Then I'd like to ask, "Why does the matter come to the council like this? " Isn't the government's plan to do something like that? Why doesn't a full bill come into this assembly right now to do this? This is on the government plan, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with him that we are in a bit confronted with the fact that people's affairs are mixed together because the system is also not simple to understand. This was reflected in a publication of Kingdom Accounting not so many years ago that it was suggested to coordinate and simplify some of these matters, and it was certainly done in that case, although better if necessary. As I entered earlier, it may be part of what the Minister of Justice was signing just about, regarding the employment permits to a particular group. I'm not going to say that there's a last shot that a minister has something on his desks that can get into these cases. But I'm not going to make that statement, but I know she's very interested in considering this subject as well as social and child - care minister and prime minister. Since there is no question whether such a case can be established now, but as I say, I'm not going to say so, I decided to do this. I had a conversation with the representatives of this group to come to this group to see if it's not something people think it's time to do and be prepared to take over, and I got a very positive response from the people I spoke to. So I felt that there was no need to wait for a minister to do something. But I agree with the senator. I hope the Ministers will.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u45	A respectable president. If there is not a final shot, as the senator says, the ministers have something like this in the pipes, I would have thought, in the light of the time, that, in view of the circumstances, it would be a simple and simple process to make it happen and to have the Minister give it back so that we could finish something in this winter that changes the system. When the senator says that it is not available to get caught, such work that could possibly be carried on in councils, which is due to lack of time, or because of possible opposition in other government groups? I also want the time frame given to this group to stretch into the next terms. Is it possible to avoid exaggerating feathers within the management team in those less inclined to open the country? Let's just be honest with it. There are not all classes in this government that support open borders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u46	Mr. President. First of all, I know why. A senator like me, we don't let a minister give something to the council. Senators put up certain pressures, we certainly do, and we have. I believe this cooperation is just one of the factors that may be leading to some form of conduct in these areas. Yes, there's opposition in the council groups, it's been in the past. There is also opposition in other categories here at the General Assembly on the affairs of both foreigners and others, so no one should be surprised. For the fact that the time frame reaches into the next terms it has nothing to do with the combination of this government. After my conversations with the members who are here to work on this case, it was found that they believe that it takes time to do this work, in view of the fact that we do not know how and neither do we know what time it will take against the council. Let us not forget that, whether it is a matter of government or a matter of affairs, we know that it takes time and time for the council to be discussed. It is, therefore, not too scheduled time, if the case would end before Christmas, that this committee would produce something before the end of the next assembly or at that time. That's why I just think it's a good thing to do. By then, a minister has a project assigned to him by the council, and he is likely to have some findings that he is going to continue working with and come to the council. We know that it can be pushed forward, and there are many cases that have been successful even though they have gone between governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u47	Mr. President. The issue we're discussing here is controversial. There's always been a debate in society, and there's always been a debate here at the council, but I think it's true. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir explained why it's offered here and now. I don't think we remember enough that we're all immigrants. We know the story. The nationalities of this country were quite limited to modern times, as the nations have recommended today, and it has given us skills over the centuries - and now I'm talking about the Middle Ages, down to the 19th century - bringing us new civilizations, and, of course, Dan was very important in this. They taught us industry, engineering, land measurements, dairy work, agriculture. On one occasion, all the bakers in Iceland were Danir, and here was a well - known local engineer named Knud Zimsen, a father in many respects in the city of Reykjavík. This brought us the Korpel camp, and I can mention more of these key points. It was Danir. Then, as the 20th century goes by, the Central Europeans are coming in here. Musical life in Iceland is actually fostered by such people; Czech and Austrians, Germans, Spaniards, Americans, and other nations. Well, I was in Iceland through a family, which was from the Baltic and from Denmark, just so I'll name something. I could also mention what I am about to say, which is the beginning of clay art in Iceland. I'm half a foreigner. I wouldn't be here if people hadn't come here for a job. This can be considered in the context of what has happened later, i.e. The development of the European Union and then the natural link between us through the EU. There are new rules, and they are being developed to include a particular group, countries in the European Union and the European Economic Areas, but very narrow for others. Nevertheless, tens of thousands have come to the country, and they have done just that, enriched here, enriched here, and continued to do so. It has also happened, in a more limited time frame, in the past 25 years, that thousands of other peoples have come here. There are a lot of experts in biotechnology, digital development, pharmaceutical production, artists. Everybody knows there wouldn't be a sheep's cape here, not even a jerk, not like people coming here. So it's time, Mr. President, to clear out the rules. Then I'm not referring to the matter as a reason. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson just mentioned, i.e. As for refugees and refugees, it simply means that our better future is here for people with new skills, with population, etc. Work force needs to be enriched. Imagine all the foreigners who have stayed here, let's say for a long time, have died here, have been buried, and have been buried, for the entire 20th century, and for the rest of the 21st century. I'm sure it's over 100,000 people. Icelanders were only 100,000 by the turn of the century in 1900. No matter how we look at it, this effect is immense, and if we appreciate it, we might ask ourselves, " What has existed in me? ' That's not much. What has resulted in much progress? There's a lot of stuff. Much more of what remains of these people is progress. If you put a clear box on our part about this opening, which involves education, rights, duties, and cooperation with the labor movement, as mentioned here, I am convinced that there is a good deal here. At this point, there may not be enough payment for this council. Then there are others who will pick up and continue in the near future or that the government will prosper in providing a bill. But as I said before - and that's true and no secret, and others have a why. The members of Parliament discussed - of course, this is controversial and has been debated for years, even in the labor movement. So it's a long run, not something we'll solve, one, two, and six. I'm here to celebrate the fact that this bill has been released. I'm honored to be a associate of that. I look forward to seeing if and when it reaches a committee, what ride it gets, and whether we can handle it at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u48	A respectable president. I embrace the contribution of this council-sounding proposal and support it fully. Actually, I would have supported a bill from the highest. Minister of this material would have liked to see it here sooner, but this is a step in the right direction, clearly. I just want to agree with what has been said here in this regard. It is important for us to make it easier for people to come to our country to share in our community and work with us here. It makes our society more diverse. It's important for us to increase the diversity, and I'm not talking about, if we just think about the economic situation, that we just need more working hands as the nation grows older. How sad that the global emergency system that has developed with refugees has become increasingly new by people who are not running according to that system's definition but are simply looking for a better life! I will not speak abusively of those who go out in the way of seeking a better life and better living for their children and a better future for them. They are to be commended. It is always a real challenge to take root in our country and go somewhere else. Me and the Icelanders should be aware of this throughout history, who have often moved abroad, whether to the Western or to the last crisis, when people often went to Scandinavia, Norway, or something like that. I would so much like to welcome those who would like to come and participate in our society. As a result, the system, when it comes to jobs, is as narrow as it really is and also that the renewal of employment is difficult. We see one sad thing in the media now, without wanting to, like, link such a subject with a particular subject. I also know, on our independent trip, talking to a professional driver in the country, who was so impatiently sad that he lost his job force, a young woman who didn't get an extension because unemployment in that area had increased. This was not a job that required expertise, but the employer found it difficult to fill in the ministry. However, the individual had not had an extended work permit. That's too bad. As a result, I think we need to look at these laws and make sure that they are a professional person, but mostly, they are humane and treat those who come here with respect. I rejoice in this initiative and support this synopsis and hope that the change of the law can be the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u49	A respectable president. I also welcome the contributions of this bill, and I have listened with interest to the discussion that has been conducted here today. I can support this case, hopefully someday it'll be a bill. Hv. paritaprevir In her earlier speech, Br rather than the Haraldsdóttir, however, mentioned that our system is in fact so today that we have some means of entering the country that may be most intended for refugees. Indeed, it would be a means of working so that we could ease that system and make it better so that those who are not fleeing, in danger, or in such things would have other ways. I wanted to ask you what. A member of Parliament: She has some idea of what might be expected to be the proportion of the past two, three years, i.e. those who wish refuge on the grounds of difficult circumstances in their homeland and those who could fall out of that system and just apply for residence and work so that the experience and knowledge that these people have from their homeland would be appreciated? Does the senator have any idea? Is this half or less or more?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. But I'm afraid I'm going to have to upset a senator because I don't have the answer. I haven't been over it yet, but we've heard the word "unfounded" ◯ apply to applications in this relationship. People have come here as trustees, but they're useless applications. It's a bit incontrovertible because I'm sure the person applying for the application has reason to apply, but he may be in the wrong place. It was just fine by reason of reason. 1st Transporter. The suggestion, Berk Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, that the system is somehow closed in this way. I have no doubt that the reason may also be no language and no knowledge of where to enter our system. I don't think this applies to too many applications that enter our overexploitably important system of security and are for people in an overwhelmingly dire situation. We just see on the numbers how much applications have increased there. I'm sure it would be desirable to be able to ease that system, and I think the answer is a little bit in the way mentioned in this suggestion that more people can come to this country and just want to live and work here, of course, provided that someone is offering them a job. But no, I haven't crossed those numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u51	A respectable president. Yes, it may be too much to expect the senator to have the numbers straight. But as I said, there's no reason to be working to try to cover these matters better. I think it would be an option if we could reduce the security system so that those who need a better service and a better chance that they're in the right place. But as the senator mentioned, there may be other factors involved, and there is an improvement in information available to people. It's hard to come from another culture, with a completely different language, and it's hard to get around in the system. It is often a great deal just for us as English, let alone for others. I wanted to mention that I had spoken to the senator who was before, Ari Trausti, son of Guðmundsson, as well as a great deal when he reviewed the story and what knowledge I was given to the people who have come here, first as immigrants. I would like to ask the senator if she would agree with me in that, perhaps especially now in such difficult economic times, that more variety and people with different backgrounds and contributions to employment and culture can help us, lift us up, and continue into the future. We are also dealing with an increasing proportion of older people. We need to gain and gain new knowledge. Doesn't the senator agree that it's a good thing for Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u52	A respectable president. Yes, I can agree. I think our variety and the number of people from different cultures are important to us and may include both opportunities and a great advantage to us Icelanders. In this context, I would like to mention that recently three cabinet ministers of the government were writing under regulations aimed at making it easier for those outside the EEA to arrive at a time like this to Iceland and do their work on a long-term job. At these strange times we experience, much of the world is from house to house, those who have the opportunity to do so. One can see that there is a particular privileged group in the position of doing their home work via computers and Internet connections. However, those who can do so can be anywhere. It gives us so much opportunity, and there's a chance for us Icelanders. I hope this opening makes people temporarily move here to do their job through their long-term work and see an opportunity in it, for despite our limitations, they have so far - 7, 9, 13, hope that they will remain - be less than anywhere else abroad. You see, I think that such opportunities open so much, people come and maybe work here for six months or something. It opens its eyes to Iceland and also opens the eyes of Icelanders to the tools it contains. I think it was a very important step, and it matters. If I'm gonna talk out of my own heart, I'd rather not see any borders, and we could just move wherever we want to in the world and do whatever we want, but we don't live in a perfect world, so the situation isn't that way. But until the world becomes perfect, at least I feel that I have every reason to try to keep it as open as possible, thus ensuring the quality of life and human rights as most people do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u53	A respectable president. This council proposal has been moved from me as the first apostle and his wife. The members of Björn Leví Gunnarsson, Guðmundur Ingi the Kristinsson, Halla the Signý of Kristjánsdóttir, Helga's Vala Helggi Helgadóttir, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Thorhlildi of Ævarsdóttir Ævardótir. The proposal was introduced for the first time at a 141th legislature by a former court of law. paritaprevir So, Siv, the Friðleifsdóttir Daughter, but I'm reenacting the motion to remain unchanged for the sixth time. This, therefore, is the seventh time this synoptic proposal has been made. Then someone might ask: Is this not just such a bad case? No, it isn't. It is now this way at the council that it often takes some time for members of the council, such as me, to set matters straight. Then it takes time to get them on the committee, then time to discuss them there, and to get the opinions and viewpoints of all the parties, and then back to payment at the council. Thus, all of this takes a very long time, and as we look forward to it, it is now rather short. This case has been established only twice and in the latter part of the council. I'll go over it later. The comments given for the two times were very positive. Another factor that emphasizes the value of the matter is that our neighboring countries, which we tend to look for in comparison with human rights and welfare matters, i.e. In this case, the North countries and Britain have all changed their laws in the way suggested here. This suggests that a minister of justice will be assigned to prepare a legal adjustment to ensure that children conceived by assisted reproduction techniques, donor eggs, or donor seeds have the right to information about their origin. The law now is that children conceived with ART do not have the right to get information about the sex donor when using a donor egg or a donor seed. The law thus wishes the donor to have no name, and health - care professionals are obliged to guard his anonymous name. If you have not been required by your sex cell donor, your child may request and receive information about the sex cell donor. As the law is now, the sex - cell donor is actually responsible, whether or not he allows the child to be informed of himself. The child does not have the right to find out who the biological parent is. The reason to have it as it has been in Iceland is that if a sex - cell donor was required to give a name or that the child could have information about it after some year of age, the number of sex donors would be substantially reduced and the chances are that those who wish to be parents may not be able to contribute to their sex cells and need it elsewhere would be able to have a child together. First, I'd like to say about these arguments that they really don't think when it's better to look. Regarding the ethical section of this moisture, I would like to refer to it, which is discussed in the report, the series Achieving of Life and Death, beginning in 2003. Her author is Vilhjálmur Árnason. He points out that a child's intense interests must not be pushed aside just to correct a child's absence of childhood and to relieve the suffering it may bring. In this way the risk of a price will be taken, with the permission of a president: ▪... use your child as a means to serve parental goals but overlook the fact that a person with independent rights and interests. Transporters of this case believe that it is very important that the rights of an individual conceived by donor cells are placed in the foreground and that it is guaranteed by law by a legal right to get to know its source. The experience from Sweden shows that when the law was changed, there was a decrease in the number of sex - cell donors and the supply was temporarily reduced, but it grew back and returned to the same level as it was before the adjustment. So this does not hold the opinion of either way, either ethically or inaccessiblely. Above all, we are looking at the individual's rights, the rights of the child mentioned by donor cells, that its rights are placed in the foregrounds, and that they are guaranteed by law. We know so much now that we may not have known before, just because there has become so much information. People may already be opening up in the media on personal matters. In this country, at least two series have been shown, I think, considering individuals who have been adopted to Iceland and who have had to search for their source. These components, called the Search for Sources, were shown at Station 2. The program presents us with individuals who had a deep inner need to search for their origin in adulthood. We get to know these people, and it's complicated. In each case, these people had very good parents in Iceland, but they need to know: "Where am I from? Why am I what I am? This may also be a matter of inherited diseases and other factors that some feel are important to learn about, not all. It's very personal. Therefore, the report shows that, of course, it is important that, while the law will be changed and children conceived in this way will have the right to know their source, they must also respect their privacy and that this information will not be imposed on people but may be available if they wish to receive it, The report lists several reports and a number of studies in this field. I may not want to pick it all up, but there is a considerable discussion of the United Nations Children's Covenant and its articles that actually support the adjustment of the proposed Law and are in line with the children's covenant. It was signed for Iceland in 1990, validated in 1992, and registered here on land by law 2013. The covenant includes acknowledging that children are independent persons of their own rights, regardless of adult rights. This is a bit of a red thread in this case as well as so many others that have been presented here at the General Assembly in the past few years. For a long time, I would say the front of the 20th century and up until the 21st, children have been viewed as inferior, possibly as some of these activities that are not necessarily meant to be true. The power should always be with guardians or only adults. The children's covenant, however, is, in effect, acknowledging that children are independent of their own rights, regardless of adult rights. I work here, for example. 7. the children's covenant. It contains the right of a child to be registered after birth, to have a name, a citizenship, and to know about his parents, and to take care of them. I also quote a Swedish report from 2007. I can read her name, a respectable president, by your permission, which is in Swedish and is called Pervertism of Massocracy. According to this report, a child's right to know about his parents was primarily involved in the contract of the covenant, which protected the rights of adopted children to know about their genetic parents. In general, sex - cell donors are becoming more common and are becoming more common because our fertility is shrinking for various reasons. Since the birth of the treaty and signed in 1990, there has been an opinion regarding this 7th paragraph. It is in accordance with the view that this applies to adopted children, but it is considered that the terms also include the right children conceived by assisted reproductive techniques and the assistance of sex - cell donors to identify their origin. In general, that understanding has not been placed on the law. Thus, it cannot be stated here that all Member States with the children's covenant have that understanding in this article. As I mentioned at the outset, our neighbors, whom we most compare, have already changed this into their legislation, namely, our country of the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Guarantee children conceived with sex cell donors on their own right to get information about their origin. This was done in 2006 and in Denmark in 2011. It allows individuals who are 18 years of age to receive information about sex - cell donors. In Finland, the law was changed in 2006, in 2005, in Norway and Britain, and it is clear that a child can obtain information about his origin and his sex donor at 18 years of age. This is the development around us, and I think it's about time. This is the seventh time the case has been brought here. It's just the first part of November yet, so we should have this Senate winter for us to take a closer look. As I mentioned earlier, there is a positive report from previous councils. In both cases, Persian protection pointed out that certain laws must be taken into consideration in the protection laws that are natural and should be well controlled. It is suggested that the minister submit a bill no later than January 2021. Some may feel that this is a short time, but it is possible, since we have laws in our neighboring countries that could be seen. The movers specifically refer them to Swedish legislation and suggest that they look to that legal counsel at work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-17.u54	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in public financial law that particularly applies to the laws of the law that reflect the influence of a management project. So I'll explain what the change is, that's 66th. A current law that each minister should evaluate the influence of a top-priority project, including financial impact, before running the government and the General Assembly under the rules of government practices. This bill is about that in addition to financial impacts, two more things will be listed; on the other hand, an assessment of the impacts on climate and that the balance assessments performed on a part of the bills will be added there and made common order. This is naturally in the view that careful legislation is not really well done unless it looks to most of the other interests when identifying the impact of the changes of the proposed legislation. The evaluation of financial impacts has become a success, so we are now receiving prime returns to the council almost without exception, with a well - thought - out estimate of the financial impact, and absolutely well - thought - out, compared with what happened all too many years ago. Other evaluations have been made, even being made, a policy on such foods. The evaluation of the effect of legalization on sexual equality can be said to have begun in 2009 and then became a special ambition when a government approved its meeting in 2015 that as part of the sexual production program for economic administration and funding, it would be aimed for the Ministry to perform an equal assessment of the primary sites considered to have a moderate or major impact on the status of the sexes. This was an ambitious goal in that it was supposed to end to 100%. But it started out slowly, so in 2015 one or two bills were to be evaluated, 10% in 2016, and up until 2019 100% of primes passed through such assessments. It is fun to say that this goal has not been reached and that it has not been achieved. A financial and economic minister responded to a request from me at the 148th Congress where an e.g. By 2017, the Ministry of Health would have assessed 33% of the bills, the Ministry of Justice, 0%. I think that it is now almost in the nature of this advice that a case from which they come tends to have a moderate or strong impact on the sex status of the community, so I can't call it enough in the third year of induction that was supposed to end to 100%. It is urgent to establish this assessment in place, and that is why we suggest in this bill to put it clearly into the law. But there is also an urgent need for some kind of expertise. We can't control it in this bill, but we could possibly discuss it on a budget committee when it comes to the subject's progress, how to make a requirement for anyone who works an equal estimate, to get serious over things, or to seek help from outside experts, because that's simply that we're not all tinkers in putting up glasses. When it comes to writing laws and ensuring that they meet various conditions, there may be people living in plots that are quite shiny for officials, but they are not one of the things they have in their own armor. I have often mentioned examples of equality, which might just as well have been free to avoid being thrown into it by my hands. It was 149 C.E. when a marine eco-efficiency minister proposed a bill for changing the fishing law. The law is probably called a law on salmon and trout fishing, but it was about to go fishing. It's so interesting that Iceland doesn't really know anything about ice fishing. The report noted: There is only very little information about an ice fishing season in Iceland. Nevertheless, several lines below the report were moved by the Ministry to say that its regulations affect women as well as men and therefore do not influence the position of the sexes. I asked about this in a written inquiry, and a minister's answer may be a further matter of humor because it shows up, with the permission of a president: In this context, both women and men are affected by fish markets, and the lack of information on quantities of feeders cannot be seen to be relevant. Let's set up a little mind experiment. Suppose, then, that even the sexlike laws can, in effect, influence them differently. What if all the members of the country were of one generation? Does a change of law have a balanced effect on the sexes? I'm not a sexist, but I wouldn't think it would get through the filter with those who are the best in that study. I mention this comedy, and refer to an answer I received from a marine emissary and agricultural minister, and, in fact, tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, as a similar humor, in order to make sure that it is not enough to legalize the duties, it also needs to ensure that it has something to say. If we stamp all the bills with an equal opinion and say: 'Yes, it's been examined, but there's no depth in it, and there's no consequences, we might as well pass it off. In fact, I'd like to mention, which is not as humorous, the budget bill we have for consideration these days, which is a fine assessment of the effect on sexual equality, four pages. Actions due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic are reviewed. It is noted that the measures taken by the government have been very different in different ways that the sexes, capitals were spent where men are in more part, but the danger is that a crisis will occur in the public ministry where women are in the greater part of the world. It says here, but I'm not sure anything will be done with this. That's the natural problem, a respectable president. This must not be an alibi either. The bill and equality assessment should not reveal that it adversely affects a single sex or some devastating effect on some groups, but that's just how it is. But this evaluation should affect the procedure. This should affect the way the Ministry provides the case. And then it's supposed to affect how we handle things in the house. As for the year's fishing, I wanted to send the minister back in reverse to the Ministry when I spoke to him about it here in the hall because I thought it was such a weak supply of equal food that I think is important to be won. I think it matters that it's done well and that it's done. The other point suggested in this bill to be added to public financial legislation, as one of the factors to be considered in the evaluation of the impact of a management project, is an assessment of climate impacts. I borrow from the Declaration of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, by permission of the President: The government aims for the evaluation of all the larger government plans based on climate targets. This is my favorite line in this policy declaration because it's so important. Plans that pass through the hall have a tremendous impact on climate. First, there is the expected financial success of the government's most efficient programme, a transport plan, that is essential to achieving climate goals. But you'll see, Mr. President. This evaluation has never been carried out, not on the two transport programmes set up here, not on one plan established by the government. I've asked a minister what he's in, and they're going around in a wreck, pointing out that the environmental assessments cover this, so to speak, it should somehow make sure that the climate is under way. The Environmental Assessments were created as tools for this declaration of policy, and I thought this climate assessment should be something new beyond that. I still want to believe it. Therefore, it is so unfortunate that the government has not yet been successful, after three years of the Council, to provide here one single strategy established by climate goals. I took this idea from the Declaration of Policy, put it here in the bill form, and I didn't let it reach the estimates, but I took it from a prime projector, to name the source. However, after I presented this issue, the government's operation program on climate matters was published in June. It says, a respectable president: It becomes new that law-engineering projections will be specifically exposed to their climate impact. That was great news to me because it was missing. But then I kept reading, losing only the hope I had, for I continued to say, with the permission of the president: In the first place, this will be done with the selected primary radios at the Environment and Resource Ministry, but it will later be considered to apply to all the prime products submitted to the General Assembly. In other words, the mistake is to be repeated in the implementation of equal food on climate change. It should start with the initials that are likely to be the easiest to look at. I can't imagine that in terms of climate impacts the core of the environment and resource services is going to be particularly heavy. How would it have been if traffic laws were determined by the influence on the climate? How would it be if the funds were evaluated in such a way? How would it be if we were to take pride in terms of basics that are difficult to deal with, affecting our climate? It's been a while since I last read the income video. He's just a bill. He even spins. for economic incentives on which climate action is largely based. As I say, there's something since I last read it, but I don't remember evaluating how it affects Iceland's emissions that only prices, but not increases. In fact, low prices may be used to reduce real - life values from year to year. It would have been nice to be evaluated on climate impacts rather than on some bill from the Environment and Resource Ministry, where it would probably be much easier for the management to boast about positive climate assessments. At any rate, the bill is suggested to take this formal and binding step towards all legal projectors, not just the larger administrations of the state, or to start with the easiest primary projections in the Ministry of Environment, but all legal bills. This would show that the issues of climate change would be of priority to public policy. By lifting the climate to a point of being one of the main points to which all the prime particles must remain, public discussions could also be strengthened so that we could make clear roads and determine whether the bills would improve or not if we wanted to be long - term. That would be a very good effect, I think, on winning the Board of Directors in the direction of a more careful legal approach to the future. Then it may be appropriate to mention that this bill, the part of the climate - changing plant, refers directly to the cry of the climate strike, the young people fighting for their future, their appeal to the representatives of the government delivered at the end of September. In fact, they called for the evaluation of carbon lines on account of all the action of the council and were then talking about bills, controversies, and all of that. I think that's a good idea. The law on public financial matters - unfortunately, the article that this bill is about to take only a prime project from the government. But because I have what. I know that someone on the Committee is listening to me. I wondered if the Commission could look at this, if it could not be considered that it would not only increase the demands of the government, and then rather than this, so that all programs and bills from the government need to go through a climate filter, but that we can somehow clear up what is being prepared by members of the Parliament and put us down here. I don't know exactly how we should do it, the committee will do it. It's a simple matter, a respectable president. It's so simple. When the Ministry is setting up primarys, they go through a checklist, which is the way of the Board of Directors to ensure a coordinated and careful implementation of a prime bill. Part of this checklist will be an impact assessment section. That chapter is, if I remember correctly, with 12 joints. These three groups are among them. Economic effects, climate impacts, and effects on sex status are among the things the Ministry can choose for themselves. Except for the financial effects. They have to check out the Ministry. I'm simply suggesting, in view of the fact that equality and climate are such fundamental factors when it comes to creating a just society for the future, that we underscore this importance by raising these two factors in the same place as the financial influences. Because, for Christ's sake, President, financial impact is no more important than winning the climate problem and securing the future equal between the sexes. A respectable president. I look forward to seeing how a financial committee is coping with this situation because I sincerely believe that steps in this direction are steps for good.
