ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u1	Borist has a letter from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made in order to provide written answers to panel query. 199, on grouse research, and covering. 200 on national deforestation projects, both from Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u2	As answers are: Economic and economic ministers, transport and local government ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, foreign and development secretary, travel, industrial, and innovation ministers, social and child - care ministers, and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u3	Mr. President. It's fun to hear lndependence talking the last few days about the importance of Iceland being free and open, and the opportunities to invite foreign people here to promote Icelandic society and commercial life, that's great. It is important to attract people to keep the nation growing and prospering so that there will be a diverse, competitive society. In view of the statements, I briefly thought that there was some system changes in foreign affairs. The system is difficult and inconsistency to people outside the EEA who are moving here and hostile candidates for international protection. On the contrary, the government has done nothing to try to fix it, thus raising a certain hope. But it came about during the day that cheering focused on allowing the available Icelanders outside the EEA to come here and work long hours for foreign companies for up to six months without paying income taxes in Iceland. So, the government is opening up for a kind of Covid tour fast and definitely. That's an excellent idea, but at the same time, there's news about a family from Senegal who's lived here for seven years. The family head has worked, paid income taxes accordingly, and added to the community. Their daughters were born here on land, grown up here all along, never come to a foreign country, Mr. President. The six - year - old girl speaks English well and is learning to read with her classmates at Voga School. There are two children inmates who know nothing but Icelandic society, but they are not welcome, and I ask: Is the highest. A minister just as open to quickly and safely comb their street?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u4	A respectable president. The problem with these matters is when people do things the way they do. A senator, confuse everything that touches this group and put it into one bowl and stirs it very quickly and then snaps something up and say, "Is this okay? There must be a distinction between those who are fleeing their homes, fleeing from war state, seeking international protection, and being able to discuss the rules that we are going to apply to that tribe and then to the alien law in a wider context, the commitments we have made for the EEA team and the way we're going to handle the e.g. The housing and employment rights of those outside the EEA. It's not the issue, it's the issue. To refer to the changes we are doing now to make it possible for people who want to come temporarily, stay here for six months and work in Iceland because of the work they have in foreign countries and because of the pay that comes from there, and confuse it with a family from Senegal who is looking for international protection here, of course, is just some sort of a story in the discussion. These matters have nothing in common. But let's discuss how we could, for example. opening up our chances for Icelanders to have the strength of experts who want to come here, professors who are outside of the EEA, who want to teach at the university, who may want to stay here a year or something, or talk about other experts who want to come and work here. The main threshold in the way of that, huh? A senator, is the terms of collective agreements. Then, individual families must have a trial, a prompt case. I'm just gonna say just as it is, I don't know all the details in this case, but I notice that the children were born here, and I ask myself, " Why on earth has this situation developed? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's unnatural.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u5	I had half a chance at the top. A minister of finance would start discussing the discussion as he often does when he does nothing in his head. He's the one who's going through all this talk. The government has had three years to fix the system of foreigners and people who come here. She's done nothing but contribute three-way bills to her return. Fleeing From Their Homes? These Covid travelers, the experts, the professors, are hardly fleeing their homes. The Senegal family is not asking for international protection; they are applying for residence permits. These are people who have been participants in Icelandic society. The family father has worked here, he has paid taxes to the community. And the children have been here for six years, like the highest. Minister said, and I don't understand why they're not allowed to stay here either.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u6	A respectable president. The Council is not a decision - making committee in the affairs of foreigners. It's just not like that. There are laws and regulations here, and we should discuss whether we want to change the law, if we want to change the rules, if there's anything wrong with the procedure of the law. I'm just gonna tell you what. Senator on the fact that I don't have this case for ruling in my department. This is a lawsuit in custody of another minister, and I just don't know the integrity of this particular case. I can agree with that with what. A senator says there's something wrong with the fact that people who have lived so long here in Iceland still have their own affairs unsolved, I can quite agree with that. But let's talk about why. On what basis did these people initially arrive in Iceland? On what basis did they start living in Iceland? What was the situation then? How has she changed over time, etc.? We can just talk about it and ask ourselves, " Does the law need to change? ' But that's why. A senator involved in this matter with all the other incidents we are fighting for change, e.g. so that we can get powerful people to work on the construction of this community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u7	A respectable president. Poland's Court of Justice soon concluded that pregnancy violations due to foetal defects conflict with the Constitution of the country, in fact, after legal and justice party officials had done much of the judging and had come to their own. In Poland, pregnancy violations are the most stringent in Europe, also for this controversial judgment. 98% of legal abortions in Poland on this law are due to foetal harm - more legal. This would include law and justice and the judgment to press even more toward the freedom of women and human rights in the land. In Poland, the judgment was normally strong by a massive protest age, but also by women's rights groups around the world and by the European Union, who mourned the findings of the Polish court. The Federal Court of Human Rights said the day of a sad and prime minister of Iceland expressed great concern about the status of women in Poland. The local government party in Poland, law, and justice, which is actually the Self - Opportunity Party of ACRE, i.e. Europe's conservative block of suspicion including throughout the European Union, a long record of its policy has continued to squeeze women's right to pregnancy break. I am certainly aware that this matter is sensitive within the Independence Party, where eight members of the Independence Party voted against a pregnancy break and a health minister's bill. But I still want to ask the highest. Minister, because this is about women's rights, it's about human rights. I'd like to ask the chairman of the Independence Party and the Supreme Court. Financial Minister: Does he share this concern, which the prime minister made very clear here in Iceland, and have been tore because of the status of women in Poland? Or is the highest. A minister of the belief that women are entirely obliged to complete their pregnancy, though it is clear that a child will not survive, or that it can be associated with a significant risk, both to a mother and to a child?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u8	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out what it is. A senator is leaving here. For example, some members of the Independence Party have not supported the bill for changing rules on these topics. Then let us ask ourselves, " Why was it, about what the members of the council had to say? ' They turned to it. Councilmen wanted to adopt the rules that are being cited as values in Poland? It's being implied here. What a load of crap, what a paint transfer. This is one of the most pathetic attempts I have listened to for a long time to link the Independence Party with some scandal in Europe. Would you mind if I asked for this to be on a slightly higher level? I support the rules that have been valid in Iceland and personally I made comments on which week it should take. If there's any confusion, it's probably to be explained. For this reason, there was a grammatical argument, and this was a feature of the legal process in Iceland, which was discussed. Many comments were received here for the council, and there are some differences in viewpoints. Do I think that the rules in Poland are exemplary? No. Is that why I'm worried about the status of women? Yeah, I don't like that. But I think if we only lift our heads and look around the world, we'd find a lot of countries that are as bad or worse. What does it have to do with the Independence Party and a vote on the case of health - care ministers earlier this year? I don't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u9	A respectable president. I think the highest. Secretary of finance has gone off the wrong side of the bed. It was a simple question: Does he reveal the same concern as the prime minister regarding the status of women and the rights of women being affected in Poland? It is very simple to declare. Yes, this has to do with the relating of the Independence Party sister class, which is also true. For the Independence Party, there is a chance that women's rights are respected in many parts of the world. [[Up front.]] Iceland's voice is important, especially in the field of equality. So far, we have had a lot to say, and when we express ourselves about equality, we listen. Then it matters what the president of the largest category, a government official, has to do with this. This, of course, has to do with the position of the Chairman of the Independence Party. To reduce the number of weeks from 22 to 20, there were no perplexing arguments in their time. All doctors opposed it. That's even. the right to draw it out, and the highest. The secretary of finance doesn't have to be sensitive to his own vote here in the Hall of Congress, it was quite clear, he was against the change that was in order to contribute to the increase in the rights of women in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But my question was simple, and it was difficult for a minister to answer this question: Is it difficult for the prime minister to express concern over the situation of women in Poland? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a simple answer. To me, we must support women in Poland as well as in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u10	The president asks why. Senators, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u11	A respectable president. For I count first of all, because there is going through many parts of the field, to the bottom of the sea. No matter what she thinks of it, a senator does not act particularly well to come up with a simple question. She goes out of her way to get involved in all sorts of related things. First of all, I'm going to say this about the situation of women in Poland: I'm just as worried as the prime minister is about this change. We can talk about it. But, hey. A senator is here on the agenda for all the other shit who has nothing to do with this case. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I beg your pardon, but it has nothing to do with whether the Independence Party is in a group of European cooperation activities, which mean that it follows the same policy as in the whole category. It's just not an acceptable approach. It's just a miserable and pathetic attempt to strike the Independence Party over something that's going on in Poland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u12	A respectable president. It seems that sick people were starving for obedience on Eagleholt, not being fed, locked up for weeks. It hasn't changed. Government policy is still starving disabled people to obedience. Today, it is done by financial violence in a way that does not increase the pension price of just a fraction of the pay and now only about 3.6% by the next year. Systemically, a government by government is starving people to obedience. Pension costs are so low that pensions are not enough for the basic needs of such things as shelter, food, and medicine. People do not see that it is effective until the middle of the month, and each cent has been rolled over by sick people. The Chairman of the Coroner Coalition wrote under word, allowing the president: THE European Community laments the abuse of power on people both back then and now and encourages governments to ensure that people are disabled to the same degree. Our mind is with those who endured this forced care, as well as with those in the company and all the disabled people in Iceland. Today's politicians encourage us to consider how the history writers of the future treat their work, because in the society we have prepared, there are no doubt more Eagleholts. Maybe there's one next door to you. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: How does he foresee in 50 years that the history of this government will be recorded? Does he see himself in damage cases because people have been confined to their apartments or in institutions because of Covid? All they've ever seen is a masked person dressed in uniforms or others at home who have not seen anyone because of the fear of contracting. People can't go to the store to buy food, don't eat, can't wait for food. What does a minister see to it that these people are to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u13	A respectable president. I've got a problem. I don't quite know what they're asking me exactly. But this is a description of the status of people who need to rely on the social security system, and I can agree with it. A senator has reason to be concerned that many of them are isolated from disease prevention measures. We need to be aware of this, and this is part of the measures in health and social matters that we need to care for. I'm going to allow me to say otherwise, on the social security system, that we can be proud of that system, that we can be proud of it, Icelanders, to have achieved over a few decades to build a welfare network as strong as we've been able to do here. It's so far from here, I'm sure. Here is the highest domestic product in the world, if you look at land production on you, and we have yielded the benefits of it in a very rich way back into health and welfare. That is how the safety network works. A senator makes up the subject, saying that people are very pierced, torn, and badly treated, even though, in spite of those big words, one of the best and most powerful things in the world. It's just that way. However, these systems continue to be reformed, and they have been done in recent years. It's a complicated system. The many groups of rights, many of them, like discounts from medical institutions and other services play in here. To determine what changes are best next, this matter must be discussed in some careful consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. He evidently believes that people can live on land production and average. I don't think so. 220,000 k. In a month, nobody lives by it, people go for it. But what does he say about the rest of the people who are supposed to live on even less, those who have experienced impaired farms, 90% of the lowest in Iceland? No, these people must have really good. It doesn't matter how good the system is while people are starving, while there are 10,000 children living in poverty. We also have a system that has now revealed that there are 10,000 children who have suffered from neglect or violence. Then our system is failing completely. And the system is failing completely when we read over and over again how it is treated by sick and injured people and by older citizens of society. It sucks to have to face it over and over again. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: Is it not time to make sure that children are not poor and there is no one to starve in Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u15	A respectable president. Of course, our goal is to build a community and community structure that ensures that no one is left out. However, I don't think that we can guide each person's life, and that our role in the political field may be primarily to ensure the opportunity to enjoy ourselves in life. Hv. A senator may mention in the public security panel, such as 220,000 bucks. I'd like to draw attention to the proportion of the disability systems on striped minimum improvements with no extra payment and nothing else, lying around 1% or 2% - 1% or 2%. In that discussion, the 98% are being released. This system has been built so that we have stressed that extra payments will come, e.g. because of children, with a very powerful child support. We have a very powerful strength for those who live alone. We have a variety of driving strengths, and the rest of these and the other species are sponsored. [[The president calls.]] Hv. Perhaps a senator should ask himself, " Am I overdoing there, and I should have put more money elsewhere because many people in my system can find people who can be supportive? ' [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator's only talking about those who are on the street, I think it can be solved, because it's only 1% or 2% of those there who have to guarantee their progress through recovery.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u16	A respectable president. On this occasion, I would like to have a place to speak at the highest level. Secretary of finance on the international flight and its state. I took up a legal discussion about the financial program for the year 2021-52025, on October 6, at the highest level. A secretary of transportation who turned to how a payload of domestic flights would not have been reduced to the level of what was done at Keflavík as soon as Covid broke up. A secretary of the United States made it clear to them correctly that a former secretary of transportation should know that Istavia is, of course, a financial guardian, such as the Supreme Minister. A secretary of transportation said, with President's permission: In regard to business matters, the Ministry of Financial Affairs is under way. [...] There has been no communications from the Department of Transport on how the management or managers of Istavia should conduct themselves in particular matters relating to their customers. No other conclusion can be drawn than that there has been a history of financial exchange in this regard. The situation today is that more and less all expenses have been dropped in Keflavík, which can be said to be normal in the incredible condition of these months and the loss. However, domestic flights have been paid full amount of money all that time, but it provided certain payments that have now been accomplished. I'd like to ask the highest question on this occasion. Financial Secretary: Why was the decision to keep a payout of domestic flight to remain as long as it was dropped to the Cheflavor airport? Second, is there a possibility of reevaluating this, perhaps even by reimbursement of currency?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u17	A respectable president. To answer, the decision to cancel the charges at Keflavík Airport actually comes from Isavia. The idea was discussed with the Ministry after this had been applied to governments and those of Istavia, and in itself we have not made any personal decision to continue operating on domestic flights. However, we have been doing other things in the national flight, as shown by the aeroplane, to facilitate less efficient transport by flight for the people who live at a certain distance from the capital area. I can foretell my point that I am, as it were, completely open to examine the circumstances in which the need for any changes in Istavia will temporarily be due to the Covid situation. But I think that if we are going to discuss the international flight in some form of greater context, we need to take more into account and ask ourselves further about this trend that has been in recent years, whether there is any reason to worry about it going on or whether the air bridge may be going to bridge the gap, stopping into this hole, possibly winding over the current trend. That's what I'm saying because you feel so strong when you travel around the country how important the flights are to the people who live far from the capital area. It can have a major impact on the willingness of people to move from work to land and also on the will of people who have grown up there to live there if transportation to the capital area is very difficult, one of the factors that are of big importance. [[The president calls.]] I'm not prepared for further analysis of this case, but I'm prepared to look into it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for a good answer. The air bridge in itself is a longer-term operation and does not step into this situation, which is now in the domestic flight. But you're absolutely right. A minister comes in, saying that this long - term development on the domestic flight is heavier than the tears, and the receipt on the domestic flight will not help that situation. I just want to catch the ball from the top. A minister in particular regarding this matter will be considered. Although the decision has not been made to cut the domestic pay, the current situation is not to do so because I think I know that this has been discussed, including the decision. So I just want to encourage the highest. A minister to appreciate this as quick as possible, since the present situation is unfair and unbearable. And true history is the position of the international flight cake in many parts of the country, in terms of many routes of flight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u19	A respectable president. All I can say is that we transport ministers have been regularly discussing these matters, and I know that the secretary of transportation is a significant concern for international flights, both of which have walked without direct government support, but the other routes have been considered. I like it. A senator is pointing out a case that is important to us. It's simply that many people think it's expensive to support air travel around the country, but when it comes to... I've actually, a respectable president, had a red light the whole time, I think. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u21	Let me finish by saying that it can be more expensive not to do anything in these matters than to try to support the flight. The cost of what can happen, if entire settlements break up, can be enormous.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u22	The president prays to the highest level. Ministers of high regard for the need to speak in red light. In fact, there was once a complete tour of the land of red light.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u23	A respectable president. Human rights, freedom of movement, employment freedom, and individual freedom have been impaired in an unprecedented and unpredictable way here in the past nine months, and current measures, which are the hardest to date with the massive and burdensome end, as well as the masking entirely down to high school, have caused considerable discrepancies for the population. There are now happy reports of the development of vaccine against Covid-19. The efficacy of the product in these phases of studies is excellent and it appears to be reduced to the initiation of the vaccination in the European region itself. However, in view of the complexities and the fact that drug development is experimental, the process of separating both hopes in these substances can, as it does, be the case. Even if everything goes further and less well, we will see that the next year's Brother Part is waiting for the medicine and will start a somewhat time - consuming vaccination. So there is a overwhelming chance that we will be able to see more Covid waves in the next few months. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he feels that the use of medium-sized resources has been used in the use of existing intensive measures or that a minister would consider freedom to be limited beyond what the circumstances might offer. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, in view of the recommendations given by the officials of his party, the last days have been held in a discourse and in a publication, and in view of the recommendations that the Minister himself has made in Cutlight field on Tuesday night, whether he intends to use himself against it within the government, that there will be again the severest course of disease prevention. And if so, from what grounds would the minister do it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u24	A respectable president. I'm going to start by saying that the results of us Icelanders in dealing with this virus, its spread, have attracted a lot of attention, and he is generally very good. We are now wrestling with the second large wave, and it can be said to have its roots as a result of our slacking back in antiaircraft. But I'm not going to pretend that it could have been done differently or that if any other decisions had been made, it would be predictable that cases had developed on a different and better course. Here's a question for some very large cases. First, I'm asked if some moderate thought was involved. It is not easy to determine exactly whether a moderate measure has been carefully observed in each case at each decision. But I've stood pretty close to these decisions, being a member of the government, and I've been aware that men are very careful about it, in the implementation of rules in this field, to look out for an average measure. Then there's always the possibility of whether you're dancing on the phone. I can honestly say for my part that sometimes a man has felt that the minutely facts that we have in each hand may not give reason to go as far as we are doing in certain areas. It's lying, for example. For us to have been stopping our job because of individual services, beauty salons, hair salons, and such persons have had to shut down their work. It is very rare to do so in other lands. It is quite serious to do so because, of course, this is people's livelihood and we have had to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u25	President. I thank the Minister for the answers. The government, the disease - control authorities, and all of us have naturally and repeatedly called for national cooperation and cooperation in fighting the virus. It is, therefore, only natural to do so. Ministers are asked about the government's solidarity on the actions being carried out. Recently, members of the Governing Body have made heavy comments about disease prevention procedures and one sharp report. A senator has associated the government's actions with totalitarianism and has claimed that he had to be risked by his own government. A look of the highest. Don't Ministers suggest that the members of the council have to settle such issues within their own ranks before making decisions about such serious intervention in people's lives? Is he not concerned that the Declaration of distrust in the Government from members of the Independence Party can promote solidarity, even resistance to community health measures?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u26	A respectable president. To my view, it is a fundamental precept for us to come to a reasonable conclusion that there is an open and critical debate about decisions made by the government. We must never assume that even if there is much pressure, governments should have and must have every authority to intervene in the lives of people and businesses. In this case, in particular, we are discussing whether there is a sufficient ground for law for all of these measures. We have received counsel from Páll the Hreinsson of Pcras, who reported this, and I feel that it is urgent that the council receive changes that Paul said needed to deal with the law on this subject. I'm not worried that it will undermine community solidarity that we take this conversation open and honest. I'm not worried about that. I trust the Icelanders very well to be an active participants in it and to discuss these matters and to reach conclusions based on sound research. [[The president calls.]] I am pleased that members of my body have been pointing to matters of opinion that make personal freedom, employment freedom, and other fundamental factors very important. [[The president calls.]] I again drew attention to the fact that despite all this discussion, we have called attention to the very results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u27	V.E.G. President. The one standing here is a great deal of interest in growing around the country. That's why they were so lucky when they got to the top. Prime Minister said in a conversation with what? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative in a discussion about financial plans earlier in the fall, with the permission of a president: We are going to major projects right now. And with this approach, making haste, we are, in effect, able to go to a ground-stranding system in five years instead of 15. So we plan to get it done at the time, which is a big step, since it is not long since men could not see beyond their ability to complete the project but in 15 years instead of five. The plans are good, but something else seems to be going on in the real world. Normally, people throughout the country have been called after triunes, as this adds up the possibility for the development of jobs, which is once again strengthened. I began to wonder at the breadth of the fields, as in the valley of the River, and in the valley of Jack, where the towns and distances are abundant. According to the information currently acquired, it seems that this will not be achieved in the past five years. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if there is a possibility that the message could not reach those who do the work. Then I'd like to ask myself, " Is my trip not ideal when a fiber - optic cable is laid and done at the same time? ' These certain rural communities I mentioned have quite a lot of money in the country, but people are ready for the cables, as far as I know. That's a lot of work to do. I wondered, " Can I manage my money better by taking advantage of my trip? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The decisions we have made will make this project work three times faster, so to speak, than we anticipated. The whole country has a triphasic state that 78% of the system is a three-phase, with an earthline of 67%. In the East, the share is certainly lower, 60%, of which are about 53% of the system in ground cables. The distribution network of electricity in the East, located on Rarisk's hand, is the youngest in the distribution system. When we started with the fiber - optic project, when I was an assistant to the Minister of the Interior, it was a great challenge to try to exploit these additive influences. It didn't go well enough off, unfortunately. Richard claims that they would look at all over the world through fiber optics, and both communicators and rural communities are informed of Raikks' plans so that this harmony should be ensured to a greater extent. However, there is a high cost difference between cleaning fiber optics and electric cables, and as a result, it may be difficult for an enterprise to follow the fiber suit all the time. We may, therefore, be able to do more to ensure that the project is accomplished in this way. But we still have a more ambitious plan now, we actually only changed our thinking, our approach, about how this would be done. Of course, we're putting new money in the tribunal to make this work faster for us, so we set the quickly charge and the project goes on. So we're falling from the plans that Richard has so far managed to look largely at the age of this line. [[The president calls.]] It's a big step to get that out of the way, but whether we can do it better - I'm, of course, open to comments about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u29	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for good answers and encouraging it. A new coin is truly there, and is it not a good idea to use the new one even more fully and to use it if at all possible? I sense that people are interested in that, and I hope that's true. But I can't wait to come up here and have a place to say. A minister without referring to the equal transport costs of electricity, calling for what these matters are. Now travel services are certainly failing, they are very difficult in many parts of the country, but this I think is one of the biggest job developments in rural areas in Iceland. It's quite strange how slow we've been in this, some steps have been taken, but I call out that we're coming to Earth fast and moving on. So I want to ask the highest. Minister on the situation of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u30	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator in terms of the importance of equalizing the cost of electricity. I've said in a publication and I've been speaking to this chair that in my mind this difference is one of the main and biggest defects of the power system we have here. The budget set up for 2015 was sufficient, but it's not enough. It's about 1,000 million. The situation today requires 2,000 million to equalize the difference. We have some possible ways of doing this, but in financial programme 2021/2025, we expect more donations to equal the mass cost of electricity. An increase of 730 billion is expected. K. That, on the other hand, is a 13% increase in electricity equations, in terms of prices and, on the other hand, a special contribution from a government fund of 600 million. Do I want to be able to check this, finish this, and recover completely? Sure. It is a big step to put this much new money into raising the share today by 50%, but we have set our goals for a much higher percentage. With these changes, we make about 85%, which is a big change. [[The president calls.]] But if at this point you can find extra money to finish, I will support it. [[The president calls.]] But this is certainly a major change from what is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u31	A respectable president. I would like to give a brief talk. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir had taken care of me at a meeting on November 5th. and I've given her a chance to pull back. She said, with President's permission: ▪... I'm sorry that this appointed senator is repeatedly misleading the discussion and making a point in this matter. I can refer to what was said here at an open meeting. Yesterday's welfare committee, where an informed senator came into contact with this issue, spoke of an illegal 150,000 women being brought in. Hv. A senator allows himself to speak in this way by the Synod Committee. You're amazed at how he makes false remarks. You can't say that this is a misunderstanding. Councilman, in the name of Jehovah. A respectable president. The only thing I said about this matter when I asked Páll Matthíasson, manager and director of the Land Hospital if he could receive 150,000 women in abortions - I saw at RUS that there were 150,000 illegal abortions in Poland - was said to do so. A respectable president. Politicians who cannot apologize for their words have a common harvest day, November 8. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u32	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A health minister for taking the time to discuss this important matter and to respond as quickly to my request for this discussion as we can see. What a fine example that is! During the past few weeks, and indeed years and decades, there has been much discussion of the service of specialists to the inhabitants outside the capital area. The fact is, most experts live and work in the capital area, making it possible for outsiders to attend services in the capital area with the cost and loss of employment. Even more concerned is the fact that this situation seems to have the effect that the inhabitants of the capital area are less useful to the service of experts and show statistics so that the inhabitants of the Eastern world use specialized medical services three times less than the people of the capital. The threat, then, of losing out on even vital services of the inhabitants of the East is in itself. So I wanted to ask the highest. Minister of the following questions: What is the Ministry's policy on the services of experts all over the country? Is a minister willing to agree to the head of Iceland's Medical Insurance that it would be more practical to negotiate with specialists to provide additional services in the home? If so, what way does a minister consider to be the most profitable means to secure a home service? Would it be possible to define a specialised medical service as a means to care for all health care facilities in the country? Would it be possible to negotiate with the Hospital to render such service? When is it to complete a contract with specialists who have been released from New Year's Eve? Does a minister think that the costs of such a service are sufficient? Mr. President. National legislation is absolutely clear that discrimination is prohibited on the basis of various health care factors, including habitats. But it is clear that we have failed to provide the services of experts throughout the country. Although people are certainly helped to attend the health care program in Reykjavík, i.e. paying travel costs twice a year, that will make up for other costs, such as rooming, loss of work, upkeep, etc. In a recent interview with María Heimisdóttir, director of Iceland's Medical Insurance, U.S.A., it was reported that Iceland's health insurance was reimbursed 546 million. K. the cost of travel last year, so it is clear that there is a lot of money. Thus, it is reasonable to believe that instead of moving all this number of people south to pursue the ministry, it would be much more practical for the State to bring the ministry to the people. This will also remind us of loss of employment, etc., which will also be paid for the state in the end. In short, it is not a practical use of money, as we have been up to this point. So it was a joy, as it was said that the director of the ZI seems to agree with this. But it is clear that we need some incentive into the system to get doctors to work outside the capital area, or at least visit the local rule. It is not acceptable that coincidences determine whether experts perform services outside the capital area. We need to build up even if there is only a basic field of service to support our country. Thus, I believe it is important to define a specific medical service which is close to the national health care system, e.g. Ophthalmologists, gynaecologists and gynecologists service, etc. Then we're talking about constant presence or at least very regular visits by such doctors, but it is not acceptable that only the ministry can be made twice a year. This often makes it difficult for patients to find out where things can happen, and patients can end up waiting for six months or even a year after getting to a doctor. We have an example in which regular visits by specialists have been successful. That's how it comes, e.g. Doctors from the National Hospital regularly at the Akureyri Hospital, which has been involved in an experimental project in cooperation with the Eastern Institute of Health, now receiving permanent financial support to ensure the services of specialists to the citizens of the medical community by contracting with the Hospital in Akureyri and Hospital. That project has, for example. Proved to be true, but over a 12 - month period, the doctors 850 arrived with individuals who would otherwise have had to attend service outside the country. Thus, the continuation of this assignment can be a source of joy. But better still, it is clear that we need to do better. Mr. President. It is not acceptable that people who live outside the capital area do not have comparable access to health care and health care, and we have to fix it. I hope to the highest. Minister will agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u33	A respectable president. Hv. A general member of Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter brings up a very important aspect of health care, and I thank you for discussing the service of specialists to people outside the capital area. The Senator's pointing me a few questions. The first has to do with the Ministry's policy regarding the services of specialists all over the country. The Ministry's policy for this service is shown in some ways. At a health policy produced by the General and health legislation in the field of health care, which has also been replaced by changes from the General Assembly. Health policies highlight constant access to health care as much as possible. It even says, by permission of the president: With progressive development of remote health care services and increased emphasis on effective medical transport, there is an opportunity to provide good health care throughout the country and to ensure the safety of patients in the scattered areas of the country. The health - care law has now confirmed the development of the service according to policy objective; the first phase, second - grade, and third - degree service of individuals. The first service is health care, which provides the basis for the ministry, especially in the country. A second - degree service includes the services of specialist physicians, but according to health care laws, it is the responsibility of health institutions to organize and render first and second - degree services, including daily and walking wards. Second, the senator asks if I agree with the head of Iceland's Medical Insurance that it would be more practical to negotiate with specialist physicians to provide additional service in the home. The simple answer to this question is: Yes, but the cost, both direct and indirect, is high when citizens of the country need to attend health services to the capital area, as mentioned here. However, the situation is complicated by the initiation of a specialist reception, often requiring cooperation with other health professionals and access to complex equipment that is not available everywhere. Therefore, this too should be considered in this context. Remote health care is a safe and practical way to provide transportation to rural health. Such services have, e.g. We have been given in the service of the East, with very good results. Third, the senator asks which methods the Minister considers most likely to ensure the services of the local specialists and whether it is possible to define a particular medical service as a means to provide care for all health care professionals in the country. A new health care programme and the role of clinics, clinics, and hospitals established in health care laws and will now be published on November 17th, newest, state that health care institutions should evaluate the needs of each health care professional and plan how this need should be met. So, with that understanding in health policy and health law, the director of the health - care agency is actually the manager or district director of health care in his own district, the responsibility of the person for secure and accessible services for all is really increasing. However, the needs of the health - care providers are to be viewed as different from those of the population and from the transport process and from the capital area, or the Eyjafjörður, if they are to be divided. This way is the most likely way to tell me, i.e. that the definition should be performed in the individual medical context. Fourth, ask why. A senator, whether to negotiate with the Land Hospital for such a service. Yes, that is, and it has been done. We have seen agreements with the National Hospital, which has been made by the medical community and with the Hospital in Akureyri, now the new Eastern Institute for Health, which made a pact with the Akureyri Hospital for a certain service. The Western Health Organization has made contracts with the National Hospital for Mental Health. The service can be performed both regularly by specialists in the clinics or by remote health care services or by a combination of the two. The question is, When is the time to complete a contract with specialists? There's a way of saying work is to negotiate with those doctors at Iceland's Medical Insurance and hopes to get the job done as soon as possible. Meanwhile, these doctors are employed by regulations. In the context of this topic, it is important to maintain that the Ministry of Health has set out clear agreements for negotiations with specialist physicians and among their objectives that in the contract the services of physicians in certain sectors should be made available in all districts and that the service should be generally performed regardless of the local community. Finally, the question arises. A senator whether a minister feels that the cost of giving this service is sufficient. In answer, then, the funding of services by health - care professionals in the country is provided by either the advice of experts or the purchase of services from another institution or by special contracts between the SI and expert physicians. The directors of health institutions, co-presidents in their medical sector, organise the health services provided in the district according to policies, and such secondary services are part of the financial frame of the institutions. Then, in particular, I would like to note that the sources of money on the contracts of SEI with specialists have greatly increased over the past few years or from nearly 9.3 billion 2016 to nearly 12 in 2020, so that significant funds are already set aside for the services of specialists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u34	President. I appreciate this important discussion today. Lately, we have heard an increased demand for access to separate local physicians and have heard that the last agreements made with doctors were capitalized, thus suggesting that there was an increased benefit for doctors in working in the capital area. So I want to ask the highest. A minister here to see if it is right and how she intends to make a change so that doctors also see her advantage in caring for jobs outside the capital area. I agree with an advisor that it is rarely taken into account, or, in fact, never, travel that is not fully reimbursed, nor is the loss of the person's job, as well as that of those who are in need of this service. It will always be better to see that some medical cuts in the region in the past few years were and that they are not thinking about it. As an increase in cost falls on the inhabitants of the country, it is not particularly surprising that the inhabitants of the country are less involved in the service. A medical conference to the year 2030 says, with permission of the president: ▪The only way to ensure national access is to ensure that the role of the International Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital is to be defined to provide national health institutions for the management of specialists in cooperation and agreement with relevant health institutions. This policy was adopted last year, as we all remember, but we have to be on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u35	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion, which is very important and interesting, Elíasdóttir the Fräbjörg Elisdóttir, thanks to the highest degree. Minister for the answers. How important it is to increase the expertise of doctors in the country! We and others hoped that with the 2016 hospital contracts, that service would be more serious. It may be said that such hopes have not come true, but, of course, things have improved. The cost of a special service is available to the regional hospital, and this is beyond the local hospital in the capital area. Of course, it needs to be examined, and as indicated in the inquiry, it should be considered as to whether it is being accepted into the budget. Self - employed experts must be enabled to arrive in the country's area and hospitals to receive it. There are big benefits for everything and everyone. Health institutions also need to expand their ministry. We received visits from hospitals all over the country in January, and it was found that despite the narrow financial structure of many, many institutions are adding and expanding their services to the population. Haemodialysis has become more common in the country than before, and it is an important factor for those who need such services. This reduces their travel and costs and significantly increases their quality of life. Of course, not all institutions have seen themselves able to perform such services because it requires the resources and expertise that the National Hospital is prepared to provide, and health - care professionals in the country are welcome to the Land Hospital to learn that service. I just want to reiterate that I thank you for this discussion. She's needed and important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u36	A respectable president. Icelanders are concerned with promoting well - being beyond tax returns. This shows surveys. One of the key elements of positive progress is to ensure the recruitment of doctors and the flow of new knowledge and experience. So there is a terrible situation when these factors are threatened for a longer or shorter time. New intervention must take place in all areas of medical care. This Reynir what Arngrímsson, president of Iceland's Medical Association, said in the medical journal some two years ago. The same article says, with the permission of a president: While some authorities have called for social discussions about the health system, it is unclear where they are heading. Doctors have described themselves ready for such a conversation. Since then, some two years have passed, and the season of the election has not yet ended. Conventiones with specialists are free and have been since New Year's Eve. The trilocation of qualified medical personnel is an important factor in promoting and strengthening the system as a whole. The system must provide flexibility for medical improvement and the availability of patients along with practical and novelty. The third level of health care is the largest and most costly level of the system. There are the most complex cases, i.e. the sickest patients, and the most complicated operations. To relieve these parts of the ministry, you need to strengthen the first and second stages. That's even. conducted by bringing them out of the hospital to as much extent as possible to the hospital. The key element in doing this is that there are good agreements with specialists, which can then ease the hospital and reduce to the multi-media waiting list for elective measures. I also want to thank you for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u37	A respectable president. Thank you for this important and timely discussion. But it is no secret that there is a tremendous difference between capital and national areas when it comes to accessing people to separate doctors. People living outside the capital area may have to make significant trips with the cost and loss of employment in order to obtain the ministry. This may also mean that people hold back from making use of the ministry, which at the same time can reduce the quality of life and long - term health of the people. Of course, medical services should be available to all. I think it's a good idea to identify that attitude with a health minister who's done it pretty well. Surely all of us would agree that this service needs to be improved. The negative side is that people hold back from making use of the ministry because of poor access. This is a serious fact, and it reflects and at the same time underscores the difference between people of the land. Of course, I and others fear that this will be the most urgent factor in making older people and those of sensitive groups. According to the National Institutes of Health, health care should be performed. Some of the special services do not agree, and in the media coverage over the past few months, it has repeatedly been said that none of Iceland's Medical Insurance contracts encourage or obligatory specialists to perform such services. I'd like to emphasize that there is no complaint against specialists. There, ministers and the system itself should be more effective in finding solutions that meet the needs of patients, the people of the country, and not the needs of the system as such. The discussion needs to be developed, the conversation. It's not just to point in every direction. It's to work in this. I believe that all ministers, doctors, the state, health institutions, are looking for a solution to the problem, but it requires a progressive conversation and a vision and a willingness to get together in this regard. [[The president calls.]] The responsibility is for those making the contracts. It is their goal to create the motivation, and it is their responsibility to secure the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u38	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, daughter of Elíasdóttir, for speaking on this important matter. Recent statistics show that people in the country are less likely to accept services for expert physicians than people in the capital area. The population in East and Western Europe rarely crossed the year, or about 0.6 times, while the people in the capital area left nearly twice. It would be tempting to say hello to the inhabitants of the West and the islands, but that would likely not be the explanation. No, probably the explanation is that there is no equal access to expert services in Iceland. It is early to realize that internal flights are important to these areas. The figures available are then 2017, but it will be interesting to see how the numbers get started this year when the possibility of flying within the country begins to become a luxury rather than a plan. Like many inhabitants of the country, we have the fact that we need to attend expert services, as well as public health services, to Reykjavík. Women have to go south to feed, and people have to go to Reykjavík. in cancer treatments. Each year, we increase in our area of health care, hundreds of miles away from our home. There is going to be sky and sea between the expense of the inhabitants of the country and what the capital has to do with that service, for such an equation must be taken. loss of work and housing The flight is important to shorten the travel time. Not everyone trusts in long trips when his health is not the best option. According to the 2030 C.E., a health - care policy for the year 2030 says that such differences need to be addressed. It also emphasizes the importance of ensuring national access to expert services. There is also the talk of telepathy in this relationship. That's why I want to encourage the highest. Health Ministers and governments to work on the policies and goals presented there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. For this discussion and the highest, Elíasdóttir the Fräfjörg of Elijah's daughter. Healthcare Minister for counter-reactivity. This is a very important matter involving health care in the country. It is very expensive for people in the country to seek service. In fact, most of the city's services need to be attended. These include disabled persons who often find it difficult to travel. Sadly, they seem to have little regard for them and also for the number of times they have to attend a service in Reykjavík. It is expensive, and it really sucks to think that this situation has come up and is always coming up, that they cannot afford to attend the service to the capital area. What then? Usually, the only conclusion is that they do not receive the services they need. I learned from the Council of the North that Greenland is in a very large country where medical help is difficult to reach. They provided a portable medical facility that could be used in certain cases, especially in emergencies. We are to make sure that doctors go ashore, that doctors are minimal and adequate hospitals and facilities are present in each quarter of the country. Then we need to use the health care providers to receive those who need them and to make sure that experts come and help. In my second speech, I will take up the details of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u40	Mr. President. I appreciate the need for this discussion on the major national interests. But it is not new. She's decades old. This part of health care has been proved to have been driven on, even in the form of the approach and role of the national hospital that most looks inward but not forward. As with the scope of this service in the country, experts over-country have developed from Iceland's Medical Insurance for each case according to credit, all defined and valued on a unit basis. There is exactly how much of the country's population uses expert services, what money health insurance spends for the service to people who live in the country, on a crown. To a far less extent, they turn to specialists than the people of the capital, and if they do, they usually have to come to their home office in Reykjavík. It is, of course, most comfortable for the specialist, the most expensive and most unpleasant for the patient. Of course, that is not the way it should be. I say, "The units home, the payment modules. " Is it not reasonable for the medical community to get more professional and financial resources to call for expert service, based on assessment, by getting the more defined units home for the inhabitants? The fact that the pay to specialists is partly due to the fact that the service is being rendered in the patient's area and not primarily in Reykjavík? What's the bottom line? Minister? A respectable president. Is it not time to settle matters now, define the role of the national hospital in this matter, and look to the future organization, look into the field and the service of the scattered community, in the light of new technologies, and opportunities for high - quality services, including distant health care, such as the highest. A minister, not only mentioned professional issues but also the high costs of projects because it is a major concern for financial resources? What's the poll? A minister of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u41	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, daughter of Elíasdóttir, for speaking on this important matter. It is clear that throughout the years, along with what Reykjavík has accomplished in its role as its capital, the service of experts in the country is one of the bad things that have happened. Not everyone wants to live in the capital area. It is important that there are real opportunities for people to choose where they live and where there are available and good health care. It is, therefore, a cause for rejoicing. Healthcare Ministers have put first priority on promoting health care as the first stop and identifying it as the first-degree service with emphasis, including on teamwork, which then guides people by the next step, e.g. to refer it to specialists. How vital it is that this government's use of telecommunications has been extended to a large extent so that people can be static anywhere and receive basic health - care services! It is such a bigger task to get doctors to work in the country, whether in place of spills or in full - wound areas, since we need both to look at things that may not be there and, of course, will never be, and we may not also expect all special services to be offered. At the same time, it would be desirable for the big hospitals, I agree with it, with responsibility. It is unacceptable for people to travel across the country, sometimes at times during a month, to attend health care. Apart from the non-environmental nature of such travel, it is also costly and often causes loss of income and work, and so we don't want it. Therefore, it is very important that we agree with health - care policies that guide us. People may not feel that policy is a major political tool, but I believe it is. A policy has been established to at least for the next ten years, which says it should be fixed in black and white. In fact, bearing fruit is already taking place. The Department of Health for the Eastern Institute of Health has been carefully tested by 850 U.S. journeys to Reykjavík to search for expert services. You see, when there is trust in health care, this results in success.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u42	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion that I think is very important. Good access to health care, including medical services and specialists, today is the quality that people stress not far away. The time spent in that service is important, especially for older people and children, but also the effort to reach out for it. I'm going to discuss in particular a specialist service in the Western Islands, which is extremely poor, in order to put it into words mild. I'm going to give you a glimpse of the health care available to people there. In Western countries, there has been birthmarks where expert physicians are not available. Inevitable mothers can't even get an ultrasound service there. There is no gynaecological services, there is no dermatologic service, there is no mental - health service available, orthopaedic surgery is not available. A pediatrician may arrive four times a year, and at that time he is very busy. The same can be said of cervical, nose and ear doctors services, heart surgery and aging medical care. A better bioavailability is that a surgeon may not be useful as the operating room does not need surgical intervention requiring general anaesthesia as anaesthetic surgeons are rarely involved. The flight to the Western Islands has changed, and things have gotten worse ever since. The transport and transport of blood delays awareness, even rapidly occurring tests, even by 24 hours. It takes effort, worries, and heartaches for patients. I'm also going to give you increased eye - care providers. The health system has become increasingly directed, especially in the time of this government. All services to be performed in Reykjavík. In the Western Islands, there's no eye medicine service. There were 450 visits to an eye doctor a year ago when his ministry was offered there a few years ago. What's the savings? [[The president calls.]] How much does it cost 450 people to travel to Reykjavík, which usually takes two days? How much would that cost? What is the savings of putting all the expert services in one place at the capital area, on the Ring Road? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flandrafjörður Elisdóttir for taking this important matter, access to health care, and special attention - care professionals. This is an extremely important matter. The bioavailability can be defined in a number of ways, and transport is one of the keys to securing access, whether to expert physicians in general or to home specialists in the province. Residual and efficient transport is a key factor in this bioavailability and, especially, domestic flight. For example. there is no flight to the Western Islands, as mentioned in the preceding talk, so people who need to consult specialists need to travel many days, often under different conditions to travel the country. Transport is a number one, two and three, it is essential that flights are twice a day, so experts can come back in the morning and go home in the evening and thus care for their business and reduce the number of trips that others need to go to. But there is something else that we need to keep in mind, and that is the role of health institutions. Health agencies here on the southwest corner, or here in the capital area, do not have to receive highly expert doctors, provide them with shelters, and pay them some minimum price to come as needed by local health institutions. This payment process, the role of health institutions in the country, needs to be examined correctly. As has been discussed here today, and the highest. A health minister entered, much of the problem can be solved by distant health care services. Therefore, expert physicians can stay in the country and carry out national services.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u44	President. There is no doubt about the importance of having a strong, strong, healthy health system in Iceland. As in other areas, technology has advanced for decades in medicine. Actions that previously required admission, even for days, can now be performed without the need for hospitalisation. A patient may even go home that same day. It is at the level of the government that special medical care is continued outside hospitals, and the way to do this is to complete contracts for the public service of specialists in private clinics and clinics. This is the key to solving the problems we discuss in this important discussion. This is, in fact, the arrangement that has been for decades and that has given great benefit. However, the scope and need of this activity is increased because of the above reasons. The government will then be able to help promote this level of health care by doing, as previously said, strong contracts there, making arrangements to guide the possibility of necessary recruitment. Some 8% of the population of the country live in more than two hours of driving distance from specialists in Akureyri and in Reykjavík. Thus, as is indicated by this discussion, the need to strengthen the establishment of regional surgeons by means of a government campaign must be made firm. At the same time, the contributions to the State's budget are to be increased to these factors. The solution is complex and in some respects complex. A good economic model is needed to be used. This should be an informed discussion. Finally, I'd like to remind you, more dignified president, that the service of specialists in the country is on the responsibility of the government, not the doctors themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u45	A respectable president. We need to complete the proper health - care program around the country, which is totally publicized, and we need to examine the bigger picture there. We even had that. A meeting with the government on the Southnes. There is one health watch for 21,000 people. The majority of the town's government has called for cooperation with private health care professionals and if it takes more time and can improve the service of the Southnes, we should simply go there. This does not mean that the Kingdom is to take care of everything. If we can improve our service to our people wherever they live, we should use all our tools to do so, whether they are independent of our health care facilities, private driving, as if they have been so remarkably successful here in the capital area, or otherwise. I'd also like to point out that there are obvious applications to long - term health care, whether in the context of a general health care unit, state - run health care clinic, Land Hospital, or an independent specialist. I think we should use that service while it's not so easy to transfer research tools from place to place in the country. This can strengthen our mental - health service. There is a real lack of mental - health professionals and psychiatrists in the country, and thus we can improve access to psychological and mental - health services. We also know that expert physicians have been out of agreement for two and a half years. The minister has repeatedly stepped forward and declared that negotiations are being made with expert physicians, but I hear, and my sources say that expert physicians are not fully familiar with that conversation. On the other hand, they have repeatedly called for knowledge of what the Kingdom will buy and have had little to say. I'm sorry, and I want to encourage the highest. Minister to act. I'd also like to draw out that part of the solution is to define what basic services we live in wherever we live and live in the country must have access to. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to be open-minded and to listen, including ... that'swhat Governor Alma Möller said this morning on the radio. There are certain weaknesses in our health care system, and we must be open to solve them. the waiting list, whether in the country or here, by consulting an independent healthcare professional as well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u46	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Frisbjörg of Elíasdóttir's daughter for the needs and important discussions. In fact, we're talking about huge equality and settlement. As mentioned in this discussion, many good steps have been taken in this regard, but better still, if possible, I know that a minister is awake. I'd like to point out that on spring days, an important step was taken to improve the rehabilitation process of cancer intelligence in the country through the agreement of the Light with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport and Health. There we see a dating groundwork in action, and that's fine. I'll mention this because there's an important part of the work to strengthen and strengthen professional knowledge and cooperation across the settlements. The first step is to provide a group of oncologists through telecommunications, but the goal later is to be able to hire experts in various areas throughout the country, calling out for the work of the locals. The people shall dwell in the land, and serve the service of the light directly to the intelligence of cancer. We're talking about occupational therapists, physical therapists, athletes, psychologists, goal coaches, nutrition counselors, etc. The contract is in agreement with health policy emphasis on improving access to health care. It is based on a policy based strategy. Why am I bringing this up here? Yes, I do, as it has been said, that I lack the motivation to get experts out of the country. A specialist's presence in one place may call for a professional team. V.E.G. President. Is this not a good foundation for something else that is being done to build services for the entire population? Far from seeing how much better we spend all our resources, I have full faith that this method greatly improves our quality of life, making our community better. I would like to use this opportunity to encourage ministers to further the interests of this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u47	A respectable president. We will discuss this very well, health care outside the capital area. It is really remarkable how we have been able to discuss these matters, regarding our health - care system, up and down. In short, we have created such a complex system in isolated cases that we have a waiting list, e.g. waiting list for children. And what waiting list are they on now? They're on an extra list, and when they get off that waiting list, they get on the right waiting list. What does this tell us? And we're not just doing this to our children. We'll do it with older citizens too, we'll make a waiting list. You must wait until you can access the main request. This is completely incomprehensible, and there are cases of waiting on a waiting list for three years before reaching an eye specialist. It's just unbelievable violence against sick people because there's no way we're saving money. That's where we save the money, but throw the crown. It tells itself that if you are unable to, because of costs, you will suffer more when you need a doctor. We're here to negotiate with doctors outside the hospital. We're supposed to set out an invitation and have a carrot so that the doctors who want to go to the country and provide services there, not just in the capital area. We insist.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u48	President. First, I'd like to thank you for a good discussion here today, and hopefully we'll see the good will that was presented in the discussion becomes reality. Sadly, the regional competitiveness has become a problem in many areas, and access to health care is one of them. As an example of the circumstances of those living outside the capital area when it comes to accessing experts, it is really impossible for families and individuals who have long - term health problems and who regularly need the service of specialists, living outside the capital area, or living around Akureyri. As noted earlier, the inhabitants outside the capital area are far less likely to consult specialists than the capitals. Like what? paritaprevir The Guðjón Bránnson of Brjánsson was in his speech earlier, with the permission of a president: And if they do, they usually have to come to the office in Reykjavík. It is, of course, most comfortable for the specialist, the most expensive and most unpleasant for the patient. Of course, that is not the way it should be. - The service home, Mr. President. I can say what happened at the highest. A minister in terms of the importance of the medical community identifying the needs of the services they need to offer and the increase in their role in that service. In this way, we bring our ministry to some extent home. On the other hand, we must make sure that the medical community has the means to care for that role. I'm afraid that's not done, at least not according to the current status of the ministry. Mr. President. It's not supposed to be like that, of course. With the wills reflected in the talks today, we must be able to get along and change this. I'm the highest. Finally, a health minister will use the good will that is presented here for fine works and will change this and that we will make the funds available together for the projects. There we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u49	A respectable president. Thank you for your helpful discussion, and thank you for your time. A candidate for the initiative, which is of utmost importance. If I try to get a hold of the matter here in this short closing discussion, there is a key to health policy and new health legislation and a rule of responsibility for the district directors, i.e. The head of each medical facility, the need to investigate which special service to provide in the district because it varies according to the districts, depending on how close we are in the capital area or the Eyjafjörður area. Since the need for analysis, the Agency would negotiate with the National Hospital or Hospital in Akureyri, that is the most assured, the services provided by remote health care or by specialists. Then we have a professional, secure backland for the service rendered. Of course, this doesn't mean you can finish the whole thing on one board, I'm good at it. We need to look at the funding of the situation, etc, but we already see a lot of sceptres in the system. Some are old and have been engaged in such a long time as when the National Institute of Health receives orthopaedic surgeons from the Hospital in Akureyri, which has been contracted for a very long time in the South Pacific Ocean. Today, the Institute of Health for the East receives psychiatrists from the Hospital in Akureyri, and other such projects are being carried out. I mentioned the former mental - health service to the west of the West. It's all going on and it's growing. In this regard, agreements related to the rehabilitation of the light are often referred to. All of this is happening because we are guided by the fact that regardless of our circumstances, our service is to be settled. I have a clear agreement goal in contracts with specialists to ensure equal access to health care outside the country. Of course, this can be done, but it cannot be the main route. The main route must be more solid than that. And if these methods cannot be balanced, then we must do even better in public telecommunications and, of course, loyal provisions that are essential. [[The president calls.]] Then may I mention a new hospital hotel that has been caring for an enormous number of people who have had to come down south to use health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u50	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee board on bill to legalize the changing of various legislations due to a pandemic crown virus, extension of temporary clearances. The Bergþóra has discussed the matter and has Bjarni Ösp Dagmar Sigríður Ingi Þóroddsson Guðmundur The committee received reviews from Iceland's Acquired Society, the Court's Office, and the district attorney. The bill suggests that temporary access to police, county and courts will be extended to 31st December 2021. Then a transition to temporary legislation on the treatment of private matters is proposed in order to settle any doubts about the possibility of a decision at a telecommunication. So far, the provisional privileges of the management of the county service have not been tested much, but it has been estimated that there will be an increasing need for electronic solutions. At the same time, this arrangement has proved helpful in the handling of police officials and has revealed no ill effects. At that time, it was consistent with the fact that provisional documents have been well available in the courts, but the lack of appropriate equipment has prevented them from using them, although it was being replaced. Then the commission was made aware that various demands were made when the hearing of the defendants, the defendants, and the key witnesses was made at telecommunications. The majority of the reasons are that if the individual situation cannot be predicted by the preliminary means of ensuring full rights of the defendants and other participants, the assumption must be made that the criteria for their application are not in place and that the majority point otherwise to an explanation of Article 1 and 2. The bill. Judges must therefore evaluate the circumstances in specific matters and determine the requirements for each arrangement. Thus, as far as more interests are concerned, the defendant, the defendant, and the key witnesses are expected to arrive at a certain point to prove themselves in private and to ensure that no one will affect their progress. In view of this, since October 1, 2020, the views presented on the basis of the decision of the National Court in question No. 551/2020. Then the decision of a district judge on matters relating to reporting in court to the National Court, such as the 1st Council. 192nd par. Laws on Prosecution, No. 88/2008, and b-joins 1 mg. 143. g. Treated Privately, No. 91/1191. In other respects, the more part is the importance of the extension of preliminary documents so that courts, police, and the county office can continue to perform their legal functions, and officials will not be exposed to legal charges. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under this publication, Páll Magnússon, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir Ármannsson's son, Silja Dögg Þóra Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Þorbjörg Örjörður Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunundóttir, and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u51	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill on changing fish farming laws, No. 71/2008, on the basis of a warrant for the distribution of maladies in fish farms. The object of this bill's input is that by law no. 101/2019 it was found that these conditions may be impossible to determine a certain amount of fish mass in fish farms within the carrier resistance of individual distant and marine areas based on current legislation or the distribution of farms under fish farms. The bill therefore recommends the permission of a Minister to assign a officially maligned biomass which will be essential for a new application, or a review of a license to feed or in a sea where fish farming is already practiced. A respectable president. Now, I'm going to step on the bill's main subject. It suggests that we be on the 4th floor. a Fish breed is added to a new paragraph that allows publicisation of the amount of life mass that may be allowed to produce, in individual continents or in marine areas, and is superior to the sources in running fish farms and sources that may be obtained based on applications to be used according to guidelines for temporary II production of fish farming. This stipulates the obligation to set minimum prices. We have an assessment of the requirements for 3 mg. Section 4. On fish farms. As mentioned at the outset, the sentence of law No. 101/2019 that there may be a situation in individual beaches or seas where sources from land management fish breeds have lower peak life mass than the maximum level of distances or sea level. Thus, these are marine areas or fjords where fish farming is already present, but it is not possible to accommodate all the carrier resistance of the area within the current management area. Today, such conditions exist in Arnarfjörður, Beerfrund, Faultyness, and a disaster. Based on available data, the amount of such exports from these four shores could reach a maximum of 12700 tons. For the first order of the bill, it is intended to include the occurrences of the distribution of areas of fire, according to 2 mg. Section 4. a fish breeding, is not possible. Second, the bill covers the occurrences in which it is impossible to account for the size of life in question based on current legislation where there is an increase in the terms of the protocol, according to Article 6. a and 6th pars. b, not met. For further explanation of the events covered by the bill, see: The UN A has 10,000 tons of risk and carrier tolerance, and there have been two 4,000 tons of licenses for the company, or a total of 8,000 tons in the market, and there is no valid license for the management. The environmental assessment above allows 8,000 tons and therefore not room for further increases in fish farms. In this case there is a total of 2,000 tons available in the fish that are ◯onew and cannot be issued according to current legislation can be accessed at 2 mg. Section 4. a fish breeding for distribution only in farmlands. The bill is suggested in accordance with the rules of the law No. 101/2019, stipulation to exploit such a poorly used fish - stock biomarker prior to tenders. It should be noted that in the bill, there is a special obligation to make minimum prices because of such an offer. Such a minimum price is expected to be considered to the factors that could be considered for those involved in the invitation to make the decision and submit to the executives in each case. Assessment of the potential minimum price for tenders, which is in many ways difficult and complicated, will, of course, be used by experts'assessment of potential value in individual cases. Yet, there may be experience in neighboring countries. It should then be noted that the events for which the bill is intended and in terms of an area in which there are already a work permit available to a small number of companies and that participation in the output will be limited to that number. If the bill remains unchanged in the law, it can lead to increases in income for the state's funds, both due to the general directive on the take of fish farms in the sea and fish farms, no. 89/209, and as a result of out payment. A respectable president. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the comments that follow the bill, which give a detailed explanation for its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u52	A respectable president. In this bill, we are opening the fish farm that was last changed on the spring days of 2019. At that time, significant changes were made, and the employment committees gave high ambition for that work, making the legal process important, since it is a business of great interest in the country's growth. It has already become important, and the export value of the fish farm was in the last year about 25 billion dollars. Thus, the value has doubled from year to year and continues to grow. It is estimated that if the production goes to the quantity of vehicle tolerance, the export value value will reach 65 billion. Then we can continue to increase the activities and value of the fish farm by increasing the full - time production of the fish and thus multiply the work involved in this sector, just as especially the movers have been successful. There are tens of billions of investments in this article, and further investments await further approval. For a long time, the Lawgiver's role is to lay the lines. This must follow the fine line between developing a powerful industry and considering the resource and natural protection that is essential to the future. Health of animals and the environment is the basis for building up the work for sustainable development based on ecology, social and economic support. The government then needs to ensure monitoring. A respectable president. This law is being re-opened, and it is recommended to assign a officially maligned biomass which will be essential for a new application or a review of a license to feed or in marine areas where fish farming is already practiced. As the report on the bill shows, this will contribute to the better use of remote and marine habitats for fish farming in line with the aim of fish farms. I would like to say, however, that I'm above my head not impressed with an invitation as a fair distribution route to new records as this one, where the highest price will be lost. I think it's normal that states and rurals get a legitimate share of a common resource through a special fishing fee or fire tax, as we do today. There has been much discussion of auctions in the fishing system here at the council, but less has been discussed. The result can be a severe compression, since the large ones in the light of their size are even larger. The same views apply. If only the highest bid is in charge, it is an uneven game that competes with one of the smaller Icelandic farms and large farms that are in the hands of large foreign farms. I'll tell you, I'm celebrating the arrival of foreign farms by country. They brought in funding and knowledge in the article at the time of Icelandic investors. However, the European pioneers that started fishing here at the turn of the century and who have continued to work with persistence and have built up experience must have opportunities to increase. That's a point I'm going to stress on a professional committee in the process. A respectable president. To open the law again, you can use the opportunity to improve it even more. We agreed with the Senate bill of the candidates' party, but we'd also like to simplify the way of the people who want to fish on a small scale on the grounds of the law. We believe that there is a clearer distinction between laws on farm demand between the use of fire on a large scale or fire as farmers or other farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u53	Mr. President. The political situation in Poland causes fear and horror. Abolition of the self - righteous rights of women over their own bodies is an enormous setback in women's rights and, at the same time, a huge restoration of human rights in a European country in Europe, a member of the European Council, such as Iceland, which has undergone international contracts and agreements on women's rights and human rights. This sad and really miserable development, which has been under way during the reign of the ruling party, in order to impair the severe rights of women and the rights of queer people, has reached a limit, or let's say a certain bottom, by ruling in Poland's administrative court on October 22, 2000. the almost total ban on abortion unless it is proved that the woman or the girl has been raped, whether by a relative or by a stranger, or it proves that the life of the woman or the girl is in danger. The decision has sparked a tremendous response to human rights organization and to women's rights organization in Poland and Europe, but also to the public in Poland, which has since the death of the decision, protested throughout Poland under the leadership of the subversive movement Strajk Kobiet. Hundreds of thousands and up to millions of Protestants have been protesting in different cities, such as Warsaw, Lodz, Poznan, Gdansk, and Kida in the past few weeks. This is the largest protests seen in the country since 2015, when the pride of the right conservative and national groups reached a higher level of law and justice in Poland's government. However, these are not just the largest protests since 2015; they are now the largest protests since the political power of the Communist regime in the 1980's. These protests are present in spite of the Covid-19 that rages in Poland, as well as elsewhere in Europe, as there is a great need to protest among protesters, very strong. It is protesting the freckled paternal monarchy who believes that he can control women's body and self - determination rights at the moment of treating women and their own rights, all in the shelter of religious fanaticism, repugnant pulaism, repetitive reluctance, and profound female contempt. Yet, the Polish Protestants now in Poland claim that Poland has become women's hell. Add to this so - called female hell is the humiliating behavior of the Polish government with queer people, refugees, and minority groups that the Polish government constantly draws from rights. Society has had enough. Polish Protestants have been strangled. Mr. President. In my conversations with Polish women in the women's rights groups in that country and in Iceland, fear and anger have been rampant. Their fear is underlying in the way that Polish women and girls should be able to control their own bodies in these political situations and how they should be able to obtain the essential medical care that is broken by pregnancy, a woman or a girl should choose it. The support they receive from foreign enemies is vital. Therefore, Mr. President, it is a matter of life or death whether women and girls receive legal and professional health care during pregnancy when they choose to undergo pregnancy break or whether they are forced to do so illegally. That illegal course can simply be life - threatening for women and girls or cause physical damage throughout their lives. This has been pointed out by the Council of Human Rights, Dunja Mijatovic, and has severely criticized the decision by the European Court of Human Rights, also because of the threat of the decision to their health. So it is in full and sincere agreement with the righty struggle of Polish women and women's rights in Europe that I propose this interpretation proposal that Iceland's General Assembly shall provide health ministers to ensure that individuals who travel to the country, in order to undergo pregnancy break, are provided with appropriate health care. This will be a requirement for the patient not to undergo pregnancy break-down due to the legal barriers in the country and to meet the pregnancy break laws, No. 43/2019. They need to be able to present the European health insurance card. Mr. President. Reasons to invite women who travel to Iceland to this service are good. The new end point is a complete review of the pregnancy break-in laws, just the law No. 43 approved in 2019, but their declared goal is to ensure that the autonomy of women wishing to be pregnant is respected by providing them with safe access to health care. In addition, Iceland has a large number of international treaties, including The European Council's Convention on Prevention and Combining Violence Against Women and Home Violence, the Istanbul Treaty, and the United Nations Women's Convention, including women have the right to health care. Based on this, the objective of this council arrangement is to ensure that individuals who have a foreign authority and who have not stayed in this country for a longer time than are able to present the European health insurance card are given the rights of the law. 43/2019 guarantees. This would protect the rights of those who cannot enjoy self - custody of their own bodies, in the light of laws or judgments in their homeland. This punctuation proposal makes a significant position in European women's rights. The bioavailability of pregnancy breakers within the European Economic Area is not equal, in order to create a pregnancy barrier in Malta unless the woman's life is compromised. Thus, the Parliamentary proposal will cover these two countries within the European Economic Area, Malta, and Poland. Although it would be wish to receive more women or individuals who do not have these rights in their own country, the carriers of the bill are aware of the setback that is in the women's own self - determination rights over their own bodies in Europe that must be avoided. It is, in the power of European cooperation at the health care field in Iceland, more difficult to secure women and individuals with the European Health Care Card, of course, the health services involved in pregnancy breakers, if women or girls choose to do so themselves. Mr. President. Access to appropriate health care during pregnancy is basic human rights. By ensuring access to foreign citizens who otherwise do not have legal rights to this service, Iceland would take a decisive position on their rights not only here but also on a global level and give a clear signal that the Icelandic National Assembly and the Icelandic Health Authorities are on the rights of women in Europe and around the world. In this context, I would also like to point out to members of the Parliament who have come up here in the General Assembly and give talks that have not been answered or written articles in the Morning newspaper, which have become the only statement made by Donald Trumps in Western Europe, that this country will be filled with Polish women and girls to break out of pregnancy, that if we are going to stand by freedom and democracy in Europe, we need to take our stand, and the decisive stand, by the right and health of women in Europe. This arrangement is an attitude of women's rights in Europe and by taking sides against the rise of Fascism and powerism and the procreation of men over the body of women whose bodies they own and control themselves. This is a vital battle because we see in Europe today that the setback against the women's basic rights is becoming hard to deal with. We saw this in news yesterday from Poland when armed newborns marched through the streets of Warsaw to protest, of course, the rights of Polish women over their own bodies. Rarely has the opposition to women's rights been so expressly armed as it was seen yesterday. And these are some members of the Icelandic National Assembly supporting their practice and writing and thus taking sides with the rise of this Polish bitch in Europe. I'd like to thank the 18 members of the council who are the couriers of this synonym, for their stand is clear. They take sides in women's rights, with human rights, with freedom and democracy in Europe, and for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his history and for bringing up human rights in general in the countries around us. We never make enough of it, in my opinion, and our voice to Icelanders is to be heard in this regard on a global scale. I'd like to commend you. A senator for that. Hv. A senator puts emphasis on solidarity, which is good and good, but there are natural differences in the way we show such solidarity. I wanted to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether the application of this proposal has been made in a Land Hospital ◯ University hospital to see if these women can be received as suggested. Also, I'd like to ask you which one. A member of the previous assembly, whether or not she will realize that these actions would be carried out in a private room, whether or not this possibility has been considered. I come to the next answer only at the expense of the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u55	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The answer to the reply by the Birgir of Þórarinsson and the good words, when it comes to protecting human rights. I know why. A senator is also interested in human rights and their possession. Yeah, I've been talking to health care professionals. It may be true to assume that it is difficult to estimate how many women or girls would turn to this country. It should also be noted, though, that it is easier for women and girls from Poland to go to neighboring countries. I also know that certain reception centers located in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, Prague, Czech Republic, and Berlin, Germany, have been developed that offer help to Polish women and girls in searching for legal and professional help when it comes to breaking a pregnancy, they choose to do so. The second question was probably about cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u56	In private rooms.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u57	I don't know that private rooms perform pregnancy break in Iceland. This interpretation proposal is to hide a health minister to ensure that those who come here for pregnancy break can, if the person chooses to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u58	Thank you. A senator for the answer. I want them to come to the expense only. Since I'm on a budget board, I'm really worried about the state's financial status and the huge debt collection that now hits the state fund, about One billion a day, like the highest. Secretary of the budget has confirmed. So I think there is a great need for discussion about this suggestion to discuss only the costs that could possibly fall into the state fund because of the case, if that were the case. A senator could cross it a little. Besides, it's not known. A senator said how many women would come here. In the event that there would be a lot of them, they would see what. A senator imagined that there would be some kind of dinner? I think it's perfectly clear that the health system could not handle a substantial number. [[The president calls.]] If there were to be a greeting, how would women possibly be selected to come here, if at that time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. As I came in earlier, it is difficult to plan the number of women and girls who came here for this health - care work, so costs are at the same time difficult to estimate. But when it comes to the cost of state funds for this resolution proposal, I would like to point out that women of Polish origin, women from Poland who have come here to work in Iceland, have paid taxes and expenses and have been an essential part of the upkeep of tourism for the past few years, an essential component of maintaining a particular profession. They have been an essential part of Iceland's workforce and have paid their contributions to the Iceland State Fund. I would like to point out those members of the council who are afraid or fearful of the cost that will be dropped on the state fund because of the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u60	A respectable president. We're talking about the bioavailability of individuals travelling to Iceland to break pregnancy. It seems to me that this is a firm declaration of support to women in Poland because of the hard laws involved in pregnancy break, that this is simply a support and a statement that they are against that law. So am I. I noticed that already there was. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir spoke earlier that she looked right at me when she spoke of some special men in the councilroom and replacements, and I don't know what. I don't mean to take it to myself. I don't support Nazis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u61	...not exactly to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u62	I don't want to dominate women's bodies, there's no way, it's never been inside, they're in control of themselves. But I'd like to ask about this council resolution because there are a lot of people in this case. Healthcare Ministers should ensure that those who come here will be contacted for this procedure, but it is not known how many would be, whether they will be 1,000, 10,000, 50,000, or what. Suppose 5,000 would like to come on a single board. It is not known how we are going to ensure it, how a minister should ensure it or who to know what it will be like. You don't know, but you're afraid a lot of people could come. Then I've often wondered, we're doing about 1,000 abortions in Iceland each year: What happens to the fetus, about those foreign women? Some may want to bury it. How will this be handled? Is that a solution to the synopsis?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u63	Mr. President. I want to pray now. A senator apologized if my sharp eyes were directed to him and his direction when I was talking about the newcomers. Of course, I was not turning those words to reason at all. Senator. I think he knows very well that I haven't been at all. I'm just sorry if he took my words to him. I am deeply distressed by the rise of newborns in Europe, and unfortunately we have been seeing the terrible developments in the past few years. Regarding the number of people: This is a plagion proposal to hide the medical secretary from the export, to ensure access to foreign citizens who are here traveling in an attempt to perform this service. The legislature does not carry out the job. One of the purposes of this synonym is simply to assign a health minister to secure their ministry. There is actually a password in what will be done. Mr. President. I don't think that I and the associate members of this council-sense proposal share at all with the senator's fears that there are thousands of women and girls here to undergo pregnancy break. To be honest, I'm not worried that the health system in Iceland can handle it. I don't think so because it has been found that members of other countries have also declared their will in order for their administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u64	A respectable president. Thank youRósa Brynjólfsdóttir But she did not answer my question about how to solve these problems after an abortion. What should be done with the fetus? I ask because I don't know the legal basis, whether it can be transferred from country to country, what to do, how to solve it. We have to know because we can't just have plan A, we have to have plan B and C. There are so many things we don't know in this context. Since we do not know whether many will come or be few, we must be prepared for the possibility of many. But I have no idea. It has been observed, and I don't know if it's true, and I haven't studied it, that there might be a need between 150,000,200,000 abortions in this area. If that's true and we get 10% of it, then we're getting a lot, if we get 5%, then we're also getting a huge number. We don't know anything, but we have to have plan B and C, too, don't we? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u65	Mr. President. To answer the question raised in the previous answer and why. A senator later repeated an answer about what happens to the fetus. I just want to remind you that the resulting embryos are not a child. I think we should avoid a discussion about what happens to the fetus and what is the legal basis for that, I don't think it has anything to do with the case. The concluded recommendation is that the General shall provide a health minister to ensure those who travel here to overcome pregnancy, of course, the services responsible for women and girls in order to receive appropriate health care during pregnancy. If they prefer to undergo pregnancy break, this is an acceptable medical service that those women, girls, and individuals choose and desire.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u66	A respectable president. I have to admit, I'm not as worried as they are. Men who have arranged before me to answer me. A senator. I am one of the partners of the case, and thank you for the opportunity to do that, because this is, above all, perhaps an important statement from the Iceland's legislature body that we have women's own personal rights. There is no shortage of it when it is being pressed around the world. It is not surprising or somehow, but it is organized to combat these rights in Europe. This does not happen spontaneously in Poland and Malta. This is because people bring money and the goal of crowding on these rights. I'd like to ask the senator, because she's on the State Department and women's rights are among the main interests of foreign affairs in Iceland, especially in developing women's fertility rights at the top of the list for the rights to fight for in poor countries: How do such ideas rhyme with that? Shouldn't it be for Iceland to be more sexist for this cause? Fearing that the modern - day medical system is under the pressure that women are being swept across this country in search of pregnancy breakers has been soared. This does not reflect the number that is likely to take advantage of that service. And this does not reflect the reality of the clinics or the reality of women undergoing pregnancy ruptures because in Iceland 80% of pregnancy discontinuations are administered medication, usually only women taking a pill at home. [[The president calls.]] Don't you think it's a little overdramatic, considering all the reality of women who choose to put an end to pregnancy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the answer. This election proposal is very familiar with Iceland's international language and the focus of foreign affairs in the past few years and how we have talked on internationally and then it's that Iceland and the Icelandic Congress take a firm and clear stand on women's rights because of the position we have in the international world, because other countries think of ourselves as a model state when it comes to the equality and rights of women. Instead, we give them a clear message to Europe and to other countries that we are ready to keep rights and resist women's rights being cut off. I'll take my mind off it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was pointing out that a greater proportion of pregnancy discontinuations occur in women's homes. They receive medication, go to their homes, and then wait for the medicine to work. They may have more spiritual stress on women than directly on health care professionals with some direct intervention, as has been said to have feared by many members of the local council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u68	A respectable president. I'd like a later answer to ask a little about the story. When we completed two years ago, there were voices here in the Hall that wanted to step backwards with the songs we were saying we wanted to return to 1974 and narrow the law from what was then achieved. This may be the closest thing to the members of Congress who proposed to shorten the time frame that women could use this health care from 22 weeks, all physicians and all scientists said was the normal control point, to 18 or 20 weeks, depending on who was holding. As for this, there were votes here in the hall. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget supported, e.g. to narrow this down for 20 weeks, which would have meant that Iceland had returned to the time when women had to go to Britain for this service because it was banned in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Doesn't Iceland owe the world that helped women for 1974 to serve as women who can't come to her today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u69	President wants to ask why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u70	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I only agree with this reminder of the story and the history of Icelandic women who had to go abroad for the health care that a pregnancy breakes. I would also like to remind you of the relationship between Iceland and Poland. That's deep and good. Here, some 8,100 women from Poland, aged 15 in the age of 90, are considered Polish women who have gained the Icelandic citizenship that is added to that number. These women have been an essential part of Icelandic society, as I reminded them back here, in the past few years and decades. We also owe them full force through the rights of women in their homeland. That's our debt to Polish women.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u71	A respectable president. Here's a proposal for interpretation of the bioavailability of persons travelling to Iceland to break their pregnancy. I've talked a lot about this synopsis here at the council, and I wrote an article, as it was done on the part of the council. For example, in her story earlier, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir. Of course, I don't need to repeat what I've said before I think it's very important to show up, a respectable president, that this party's smell is focused primarily on the health minister and that it ensures the access of individuals who travel to the country in order to undergo an abortion, to the appropriate health care. That's what this proposal is primarily about. We need to look at it in the light of what the medical facility in Iceland is today and in the light of what is happening today when there is a medical emergency and the hospital itself, the land hospital, is in an emergency and the whole world is under control. This suggests that people in this area are being directed to abortion. Of course, this is more important than tears. Despite the good will of those who make this suggestion, because I think it is with us that we are working with good people who want to be good people, it is that way when we want to do good to others and to make sure that our health systems are limited, at any rate, to the extent that our system is limited. This suggestion focuses primarily on Polish and maltian women. In Poland, there are over 38 million people and some 400,000 in Malta. In addition, the suggestion that the wish would be that we could also provide the services of women from other countries, but there are certain cases in which abortion and the legislation in Poland are affected. I don't know how many countries these are because I haven't studied abortion laws in every country. I met the Icelandic abortion legislation during the winter and disagreed with the decision adopted at the council and in itself has nothing more to say about this level, since the proposal and the law are not discussed here. No particular number of individuals are expected in this synonym. One authority was asked what she expected many individuals to do here in these matters, so she pointed it out to a health minister. It would be her business to deal with it. This, of course, is far more serious than that. This presents a synoptic proposal that is signed by nearly one third of the members of Congress, and it does not say how many individuals could come or assume the benefits. Then you have to guess, a respectable president, how many there are. The only numbers I have are from a radio show that discussed this proposal. There, a Polish journalist, Renata Kim, reported that in Poland an estimated 150,000 illegal abortions a year. It was also noted that some non-named relief organization felt that the number was up to 200,000 a year. Then there were maltian women and women from other lands who live in the same situation as they do. I don't know, Mr President, what I'm supposed to guess, but, of course, I don't have to figure it out for you, fine senators, whatever kind of stress it would be that the Icelandic health system would be if just a fraction of these individuals came here. That's what I'm thinking about right now. This priority proposal is what it is. paritaprevir The Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter could have discussed the situation of Icelandic households. She doesn't get any other council proposal soon, but she chose to go that way. If she had thought about how much this costs an Icelandic health system, I'm not sure that the proposal would have been submitted because it is primarily about cost. [[Foreground on: No.]] It is good, and it is beautiful, and it will never be appreciated, never enough, at all. I totally agree that we need to take good care of everyone and do everything we can for everyone. But we cannot do everything for everyone and let our health care for us. It's just impossible, completely impossible. I'm not going to go into any bank notes in this speech chair. I have a very limited time. I'm just calling attention to what transporters are putting on the health system in Iceland. I'm asking if they've sat down with the heads of the Land Hospital and asked them how they'd take it from the National Hospital, say violations, 10%, of these tens of thousands of women, in an abortion in Iceland. How would this section of the Land Hospital agree with that already performed 1,000 abortions a year, five a day, throughout the active days of the year? I and many others feel that it's too much, and then I'm not putting myself in the footsteps of those there, or I'm evaluating it in any way. I'm just talking about life. That's what's about me in this. When we offer such suggestions, we must weigh the cost involved. There are all kinds of suggestions for whatever comes to mind if the cost is of no importance. A respectable president. I have to say, this proposal is presented at an extraordinary wrong time for Icelandic health systems, for people in Iceland who are waiting for their work, for people in Iceland who can't see a bright future right now. But the future will be bright. I promise. We all promise. We all hope so. Now this proposal will probably go to what? The welfare committee. I think it's very important that she get a quick release on the Committee so she can get the council back, and she'll be elected. It is very important that the clear will of the United States be shown whether tens of thousands of foreigners should be brought here and loaded onto the medical system. It is very important for the people in the country, for the society that is fighting on the banks of those times, to know whether members of this hall are going to put such a burden on the health system that they will not even live up to. To me, there is a health system in Iceland with the world's best, but it's tiny if only a fraction of the individuals here are talking about. I can think of all of them with warmth, but I will never be able to handle their affairs, nor will I be able to deal with any individual or female affairs of all countries, as is the case here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u72	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. A senator will be late to agree on this matter, as I am a member of the case with 17 other members of the council. A senator opposed it. However, I would like to point out and discuss with the senator what seems to me to be at best a misunderstanding on the matter. First, one thing I've heard from the senator repeatedly asserts that this is the priority of the case by the 1st traveller. Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir spoke on October 15 at this council. It was the senator's first case at this council. This is case number two, so there's a fact that the senator could handle correctly. Then, with regard to the enormous cost of living. A senator sees the loss of the Icelandic health system. I'd like to ask if the senator knows how the European health insurance card works. This includes the fact that in this case in a country, Iceland, a service is paid by government in a foreign country, in this case of Poland or Malta. Where the senator sits. The welfare committee, who has health insurance within his own framework, I would have intended him to know. However, in view of this, is the senator willing to draw ashore with claims that this will bring the full funding of the Icelandic medical system, in view of the fact that the account will be paid through the European health insurance system of the state where women live?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u73	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. I'm not an expert on the European health insurance card, like anything else. I'm not usually an expert on anything. I think it is quite clear that the foreigners who live here have every right to the health care available, I don't think there is any doubt about it. I have never objected, for I have greatly welcomed their presence here and their involvement in the commercial affairs that are absolutely invaluable to us. In this health insurance card, my understanding of it is, I have to say, I'm gonna be a little more specific than I was before: my understanding is that it is more relevant to tourists and such isolated cases. But if it's going to be here to practice health care between countries for this particular purpose, and whoever it was, I'm not quite sure that the European Health Insurance Card is intended for this, e.g. If only the Icelanders took some action to Germany, and the local authorities, or country, would offer it freely. It's, for example. not done about replacement operations that Iceland needs to go to abroad, which we would have wanted to be taken into the country. So I think maybe we're the reason. the person who asks me to agree that this card may not be entirely relevant to the thought behind this council decree.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u74	A respectable president. No, you're right about what you're doing. A senator's health insurance card does not apply to trips that people are going to use to obtain specific health care. Therefore, this suggestion is exactly as it is suggested that when it comes to a type of service, access to a pregnancy break, the system should be shaped so that this service should fall under the health insurance card. Then some of the costs of the Icelandic medical system are blown away because we have a system that makes this work. It's called the European Health Insurance Card. And the senator doesn't have to be an expert on it or not, because it's just what he claims. He doesn't have to be an expert. He just needs to tell the truth. Then about how much pressure it will be having on the health system, I think I'm confused. A senator, like a large number of people who have expressed themselves in this matter, speaks as if these were the most complex medical procedures in the world. As if this was an open heart surgery involving 20 experts and all kinds of equipment that pipe, it is only a matter of billions of dollars to reduce these measures. Does the senator realize, in fact, that when we discussed this matter on the welfare committee at the time, 80% of pregnancy discontinuations, four out of five women who choose to end pregnancy in this country, do this by medication? It's the whole operation, it's just going to a hospital, get a prescription for medicine, and take it home. The vast majority of women have to empty their womb or some of the more invasive procedures requiring hospital special care. I'm going to ask the senator the next time he talks about 1,000 operations a year at the Land Hospital, remembering that 800 of them took place at the women's home.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u75	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u76	A respectable president. The right to answer that. I have no special sense of humor when it comes to emptying my womb. I don't think about it that way. And whether four out of five procedures are like this or queer, with drugs, or with a direct operation, then there must be some kind of high cost of living out of this service. I'm not going to go out on the nasty talk about this life that's being destroyed. I just stress that behind this must be cost - whether in medication, medical procedures, medical personnel, the situation that people need, the service they need to perform to the women who come there in this crisis. I haven't been informed of that. I know that information is being sought at the cost of the 1,000 abortions mentioned in Iceland. When available, they can be evaluated in some way for financial gain. In the end, it may not necessarily be money that is all about. It's also about the ability of the system to live up to what no one in this room can answer. Rather, it simply says that it is all open to millions of people to come here in an abortion. That's what I've been saying is that the unrealisticity in this case and it's quite incredible, that we are doing it in these days when society is in great anguish over the state of the world. There's about to be 25% unemployment in Southnes, and I think the people there now want to talk about something other than abortion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u77	Mr. President. It's nice to hear that. At least two times, a senator mentions kindness. Perhaps it would be nice to hear it more often on the part of the day. Senator. He is deeply concerned with the cost of this council arrangement. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees what suggestions the senator has offered to finance the health system that has been financed in recent years. What suggestions do we have? A senator and his group brought up to finance and strengthen the health system in order to meet the tragedy? Because of it. A senator is very concerned about cost and figure and sum, and I would like to remind him that the Polish state, Poland, gave Iceland an emergency loan for the fall in 2008, $200 million or $2.8 billion. This was taken from the tax of Polish citizens, the tax given to Polish women, who are being affected by the rights of the present court's ruling decision and the actions of the Polish government. Counts 'em out. A senator that we do not owe Poland some kind of effort to show this kind of kindness, as a boy. A senator is concerned somewhere, even though only because of this design, the favor that the Poles showed to the Icelanders at a time when we were going through a lot of trouble? I trust the Icelandic health - care system to deal with what this Parliament's proposal involves because these measures are strong and good to health professionals, and as has been noted, these measures are largely carried out in women's homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I can't exactly remember whether any of the conditions that the Polish provided for the Icelanders of their time were conditional and appreciated and appreciated. They deserve everything for that. Whether we owe them something special in this matter - I don't really think it's that way. I think we have to pay our debts first and foremost. Second, we need to show appreciation to this nation that we have had in such good relations. Over here, thousands of Poles have moved, worked here, under the interest of professional growth when necessary. That's very thankable. It will be very difficult for us to show our appreciation for it. I don't expect we're going to have to present a special pact proposal for abortion at the General Assembly as a token of appreciation for the Polish emergency loan. I think there are other things we can do for this nation other than make a major requirement for health care. I feel that the manager of the case is very down - to - date and that it's not a big deal. Then again, I'm not going to discuss the abortion myself. Rather, I'm just trying to put myself in the same room when the movers here speak of women from many nations being welcomed here to this operation, a respectable president. It must be stressful, far more stressful, than the Icelandic health system can handle. That's mostly it. When they asked about this this morning, the chalices were referred to a health minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u79	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson does not tire of stumbling here or scrutinizing the people here for allowing himself to submit a political arrangement that turns to solidarity with Polish women and girls and makes it easier for them to perform a pregnancy - breaking service in this country at a time when we are going through economic hardship. Yet, he is the most expressive member of the council in this matter. I think that's what we're talking about. Perhaps a senator would do better to look closer and start making serious suggestions to resist the fact that 200 people are standing in line for food gifts in his own district. I haven't seen a single suggestion from this why. That's what a senator does. Then I thought about numbers. Hv. A senator here speaks of tens of thousands of foreigners who will rush into the land. Where in the world has what to do with what's wrong? That's the question? Now I don't know her, and I am the 1st member of this council-sense proposal, because it's hard to estimate, as I said in my transmission speech and reply, how many women and girls will take advantage of the service we're offering under this council-sense proposal. So I'd like to know where it came from. A senator gets the figures he's here with blunders about in some sort of dog pilfering bitch to stir up the language and dislikes of women and foreigners in the same breath.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u80	A respectable president. I have shown no hostility here in this sermon. Don't be a pain in the ass. No one, not a stranger, not a messenger of this proposal. It has not been revealed in my words. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I forgot to answer earlier on my proposal for health care, of course, he's asked for the Independence Party. He was on the scene of those council members in a government that we spent three years together, so a senator fully knows the suggestions, of course they are available. For the waiting list at Cheflavík, I've talked about them in the council and here at the Senate Hall, but I've also gone on the scene myself and participated. There's no discussion here. Hv. A senator doesn't have to tell me anything about that position or what it is and how many people help out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u81	...do it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u82	A lot of people know what they're doing there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u83	What have you done about it? That's the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u84	A respectable president. This is the case with such delicate matters, food gifts, and so forth, it is usually not being spoken of in public, nor is it a list of such matters being mentioned, if called upon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u85	However, it can be said of abortion and pregnancy violations in public areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u86	You were the one who asked me to talk about this in Keflavík, and you went through many fields, talking about a loan of distress and a Cheflavík. And then I'm just gonna talk about a pregnancy break? This suggestion is about the pressures of the health system, a recommendation to the health - care minister to receive women. That's what I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u87	Mr. President. First, I want to say that my view of abortion is familiar with a United States of Congress. I've always spoken against them, but I won't stay with them here. I wonder, however, if transporters, like e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, chairman of the United Nations, and the Þorgerður daughter of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, chairman of the Revolution, have thought this matter through. The case is presented as a symbolic agreement with the freedom of women in Poland and in Malta. There is nothing wrong with showing solidarity in other countries, no matter what. Indeed, the abortion laws in these countries are strict, without my referring to them here. Then there is another matter in which we show solidarity. There's a difference of opinion about that. There are many ways in which you can do this. In general, I believe Iceland's voice should be heard internationally, and I know why. A senator and a traveling overseer, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynflfsdóttir, has done very well in the confidential work she has taken in behalf of the Generals in that area. It is suggested that women are not likely to begin streaming to the land of abortion. An essay with the proposal says that the article not to be thought to have a burdensome effect or consequences for a government fund because there are only two countries in the European Economic Area, Malta, and Poland that meet the conditions proposed in the Parliament's decree. I doubt that, Mr. President, this will all work out. Since I'm on a budget board, I'm concerned about the state's financial status, as I mentioned in answer to this discussion, and the huge debt collection that has taken place on the virus epidemic, a debt collection rising day after day, increasing by 1 billion dollars. daily, like the highest. Secretary of the budget has confirmed. It should be noted that this country is a large Polish society, as we know it. So they are well - aware of the quality of health care in Iceland and have no doubt had good experience with it. Travel between countries is the best, with a straight flight. It's easy to travel from Poland to Iceland and back. The proposal says that the cost of abortion in this country should not be too high if the woman has a European health insurance card. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in earlier in answer to the fact that there was no need to worry about the cost because he was paid for by the state where a map is published. That's how this works for a map. It should be so that the Polish state paid for it when Polish women come here for these actions. However, I do not think the Polish state or government in Malta would agree to pay for an action illegal in those countries than do in Iceland. I think this is something that, of course, needs to be discussed on the committee and that will get a representative of the Polish government to review that case. We are all aware of the pressures we face, and we have been in Icelandic health and health - care systems. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson made a big effort in his speech. We know that hundreds of measures have been delayed, and a large number of people are waiting for their deliverance. I think it's pretty clear that our health system does not have an absolute volume to add more measures. An abortion is not an easy task for the woman, nor is it easy for the midwives and nurses who are hers. Some employees pray not to take this action. In my conversations with these groups, I have come to realize that the pressures associated with the 1,000 abortions being carried out in this country each year are more than enough in terms of the current human resources and circumstances. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson also mentioned it in his opponent earlier, about 30 minutes ago. 80% of all abortions are actually done by medication and even at home. Of course, the senator was right about the figures in Iceland. But this is a lot of simplicity because I think it's pretty clear that women who came here for abortion would get very likely after 12 weeks of pregnancy, and they're all being carried out in the hospital. So I don't think this case can be set up like that. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson did earlier. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to say that abortion surgery is not the usual procedure, and I mean after 12 weeks of pregnancy. They usually come under great spiritual pressure, and no doubt it is very difficult to enter into the situation in which a woman is in the face of such challenges. But I'd like to say, in this suggestion, I've forgotten that behind each operation, there is a health care professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I am here only for a discussion that the Polish government may be able to refuse the payment of certain medical treatments abroad. If medical treatment is not acceptable to them, the European health insurance system is not such that governments can set aside some measures if necessary at home is not possible to provide them with the necessary help. It is part of this system that the government cannot use only its hands. Nevertheless, the patient pays the full price for the medical care he receives in the state where he is looking for help and then is reimbursed at home. Just as when we need to seek assistance when traveling abroad, in European countries, we need to pay for the ministry. There are several insurance companies that take the cost or the health insurance in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for reviewing this. It's just fine and necessary in this discussion, i.e. In what way the health insurance card is involved in these measures and measures in general. Like what? A senator correctly mentioned them as the patient who leaves the amount and then asks for a reimbursement in his own country. I believe that the way the Polish government would react to it is very uncertain. We have naturally seen that the government of Poland is in a special way at this time and has been. I don't see these reimbursements going very well. This is something that, of course, needs to be very careful. I believe it is only natural that if these items are fully investigated because such measures are illegal in Poland and we don't know in advance what the government will do even if it should be paid. We can't tell if they will. It is clear that this needs to be clear because we are naturally talking about a substantial cost, and it's that mine doesn't know how much of the state funds are worth considering the circumstances we've been in the past few weeks and months. The collection of Kingdom funds is in such a way that it does not improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer but reiterate what has been said before, that the individuals who come here to travel and are not lived here and have not been lived here at least For the past six months, they're not health insurance in Iceland, no matter what medical services they're serving. Whether it is sore throat, leg fracture, or pregnancy break, it is not a government fund that pays for the visit. It is the patient himself that must be fully paid for the visit, and it is the patient himself who receives the reimbursement. Caring for what? A senator on behalf of the state's funds is good, but in this case the patient is the one who pays for the ministry so that we do not have to worry about it here. But I am concerned with the position of the state's funds and concerns about the health status of the medical system. But there is no need to involve them in this matter because the patient himself pays for the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u91	Mr. President. I don't have much to add, but thank you. A senator for coming here and making this clear because at the beginning of this discussion, it was a big deal that the European health insurance card was just the solution to all costs and we wouldn't have to worry about it. I'm just trying to remind you, okay? A senator, that I asked a minister of finance not long ago about the health costs of a foreign citizen who was unsolved. This is a large amount of money where foreign citizens have received services at the hospitals of the country that they have not been able to collect. That's a lot of concern. This costs hundreds of millions of dollars. I say for myself, in view of the unique case, that there is no guarantee in the matter that there will be no expense for the state fund. I think it's totally possible to hit hard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u92	A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal to conspire about the bioavailability of persons who travel to Iceland to break their pregnancy. There have been many developments in the discussion on these issues and in connection with male bullying in Poland, it has been said of the proabortion of abortion and has been carried all the way to the NGOs'walk in Poland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u93	No, Guðmundur, I wasn't talking about you...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u94	No, not about me, I'm not saying that, but it was the discussion. I say for my part that it's incomprehensible that the newborns in Poland are walking, and I would never support it, and I don't understand the abortion legislation on Poland. Yes, it is very strict and too strict, and it may reflect their faith. Often, violence in the name of religion is bad or bad because we often find it difficult to prevent violence from occurring there. But can we allow ourselves to apply Poland to Iceland? This has been observed, and it was noted that those who disagreed with new abortion legislation in Iceland are opposed. That's right. I was against the new abortion legislation in Iceland. As we have seen: Is a woman with poor health problems? I say no. This is a joy for most who are lucked out. Do women not know how the children come into existence? Yes, most people know that very well. Is anyone talking about controlling women's freedom or control over women's bodies? No, I've never thought of that. Just because I have opinions about things doesn't mean it's the same thing between you and me. We are talking about another person, the fetus. I'm looking at it as an individual. What happens if you just google an embryo? Then he says, under the permission of a president: A baby still in the womb is born. It develops from the embryo (the primary stage of development). In man, the embryo phase begins nine weeks after conception (the same period as week 11 of gestation) and continues until delivery. As the development of the foetus is gradual, there are no apparent limits to the detection of embryos, however, the development of the foetus (although they are not yet mature, and some are not yet in place). On the health care system it says: ▪ The growth rate is high and fast. All the organs are formed in the first 12 weeks but are small and immature. The fetus'heart starts to beat on the fourth week after conception. The foetal heart rate is fast, almost twice as fast as the mother's heart rate. The embryo's skin is adjusted to remain in water. It is protected by a waxy substance called foetal fat. The embryonic fat protects the fetus's skin from modern food. The fat washes the baby's skin throughout pregnancy, causing the baby to be slippery and scraped at birth. The first hairs form as soon as the skin matures approximately 12 weeks. The fetus is constantly moving, and sleeps only in a little dolls, but because of its small size, the mother does not feel the movement yet. At the end of this period, the child starts to suck fingers and swallow. The child's gender, hair and eye color are determined early. At the end of this period, the fetus has been perfected into human form, and all its organs, although still immature, are present. ◯ That's why I say that the law that was valid before we had allowed an abortion in the 22nd week of our pregnancy, I supported it. I didn't support the 22nd week. I don't think it's because I'm attacking the right women. I believe that if a woman is raped, she is entitled to an abortion. I also believe that if there's anything wrong with a child, the rights should be there. But I believe that after 12 weeks there is an emergency, and it should not be normal to allow abortion in week 22. By allowing this synonym to pass through, it is said that the abortion of Polish women is all right in Iceland up to the 22nd week. There's been an abortion here, such as why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said, it's easy. She wouldn't go to hospital, this would be medication, and then home. Of course, that applies to Iceland. But that would not be true of the women who came from Poland or Malta. It wouldn't do, just medication and then home, it'd have to be done here. I'm sorry. I say in my own due time that in these cases there would never be health issues, it's just a decision that would be made by the woman. As a result, I'm concerned that there is no plan B, no plan C about how this is going to be done. The number of comings is unknown. Unfortunately, in this case too, the surprising fact that in the United States, 1,044 abortions were performed in 2017. We're talking about abortion almost four a day already. It turned out that there's probably enough pressure on the Icelandic system as it is today, and I don't talk about it in the middle of Covid. If it doubles, we're talking eight times, and if it triples, we're talking about 12 a day. I don't think there's any situation here. I don't think there's a way to do this and I don't see how this is going to be done. I say for my part that it would have been much simpler just to declare support to Polish women in an effort to get laws changed in their country. I know that I found it quite unbelievable in the discussion of abortion at the time of 22 weeks, that there would be no time limit for abortion. That really scares me. That's just my opinion. I can't picture it. It turned out that after 12 weeks, we're not talking about, that I think, the fetus, but we're talking about a baby in human form. As a result, we should focus on doing all we can first so that women do not become unnecessary pregnant and second, making sure that women do not have to have an abortion. It must be one of the scariest things to be afraid of making the decision to have an abortion. And that we have heard the figures of 150,000,200,000 - somehow it doesn't seem to work in the century where we have come, with the knowledge that we are in the community, that we are still in that place. I hope that we will find some solution in that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u95	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bjorn's daughter for her initiative in the matter discussed here, a pact of basic human rights, the basic right of women to have full control of their own body. In fact, it is a little reluctant to appear in a pita at the International Assembly of the Icelanders in 2020, discussing such fundamental rights and discussing matters that prohibit the Polish government on these basic rights of women. Still, this is vital. The interpretation proposal is about hiding the highest. Healthcare minister to ensure that those who travel to the country in order to undergo pregnancy break are provided with appropriate medical care. However, it will be bound to the conditions where the person should not undergo pregnancy break because of the legal barriers in his or her country, as well as to the candidate's ability to present the European health insurance card. In other words, this support to a particular group is being determined. For those who are possibly involved without knowing the background, it is necessary to make a decision that there is a basic human right here. A basic right. It is also appropriate for those women who seek medical care because of a request for pregnancy break, but at all times because of their best interests and at times completely vital. You see, women and I are in a different position to multiply the human race. It's just that way. And sometimes we don't control it. Some women simply have no words. However, for some extraordinary reason, the Polish government that has now ruled has decided to self - determination women. Then I'm proud to stand here in a pit and tell you all the feet that I'm with Polish women in their fight for self - determination right over my own body. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] And I'm never gonna let myself stand here and object to that. Never. This matter of standing with Polish women, who, because of social or health conditions, need to be asked for a pregnancy break but not because of the legal barriers in their country. Note, there's no medical issue behind that. These are legal obstacles set out by the current Poland government solely by some conflicting ideas against women's rights. I'm just letting myself speak that strong because there's nothing else that's behind it, nothing else. Yes, Mr. President. These women are the ones we have to think about, that even though being pregnant is all just as happy and happy, there's just a lot of experiences where it's not like that. Happily, the medical profession allows women to act in ways that are beyond the reach of great harm. Because it is necessary and it is important to respect the right of such women. Of course, women do not joke about breaking a pregnancy. I don't know of one woman who's made such a joke of her own. And that clear position must be respected, the rightness of women over their own body. A little concern over the health - care capacity of the two - year - old system. In this speech, as before, members of the council have already reviewed, it is worth pointing out that those who have not been living here in the country during the past six months simply do not have health insurance in Iceland. Then it is of no importance whether it is Icelanders or foreign citizens. Icelanders who move back to the country after living abroad are not health insurance in Iceland for the first six months after returning home. The same is true of others, with foreign citizens. But there are citizens, individuals who come here and have the European Health Insurance Card. There are certain rules, which are health insurance. Therefore, because of the European health insurance system, the cost of such measures will be at home. 80% of pregnancy interruptions are performed by administration. Such administration will cost more than 20,000 k. There will be no such thing as a health - care system. The patient will pay for this themselves. I would be proud if the Allied Congress could now clearly support the basic rights of Polish women and women who have to endure the application of laws against their fundamental rights. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u96	A respectable president. I come up here to support this important suggestion. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir. I do it in the name of a women's solidarity. I do so in the name of our freedom to live free lives on our own terms. I do so in the name of the weekend, which we all have the right to enjoy. I do this because the situation in Poland shows how transient women's rights are around the world, how easily they can be taken from us again, especially if those of us who care about these matters, who have strong positions, which are in a good place, who have a government brought from the highest rank. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who has feminism as one of her basics. The Kingdom that should always stand by the right of women to rule over their own body. As long as we have this freedom and have this ability to stand by our generation in Poland and Malta, and certainly in other parts of the world, we should do what we can to assist them. Let us not forget that it is easy to lose these rights again if nothing is done. If the international community does not cooperate with women in Poland, the next, and the next, can fall. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is a well - funded and organized organization of women's fertility rights throughout Europe. This is not an honest political battle being engaged in. This funding does not guarantee the health and well - being of women, even if that is said at times, or is lifesaving. The plan is to undermine the basic freedom, the basic right of women in democracies because these powers want to return to the place where the woman is in her home to raise children, to do little else, and men are restored to the authority of the community they always claimed to be. This is the purpose of this mission. I'm also sorry to hear how dishonest the saying against this proposal has been. It's not so easy. The members of Ásmundur Friðriksson or Birgir Þórarinsson have some enormous concern over expenses here. They simply object to a break in pregnancy and therefore resist this suggestion. Talking about this in a different way is dishonest. Let's just say things as they are, that's just done on these terms. The case of these two members of the council and the other members of this hall, when we discussed an overall review of pregnancy break-off legislation, was certainly a concern for the person being present. I actually thought that women's freedom of fertility was more respected in Iceland than a conversation in this room indicated. I believed that, and I was surprised to learn how fateful, prejudiced, and downtrodden comments were made to fall into this public hall. It was disturbing that ministers in this government wanted to go back when it came to the rights of women to rule over their own bodies, even ministers of a class that blames themselves for individual freedom. It seems that any individual who wants to take advantage of his freedom is in some Creeds. If not now, when? If not to who? It is a question of what we can do to show what we stand for. We represent the equal rights of women and men, we represent equality, we represent women's humanity, their right to control their own bodies, and we reject any form of custody or talk about the need to do so well only to make what others are suitable for our bodies because it fits into some belief or belief in a man's authority over a woman's body. There's no way. And that's why this suggestion is important, because it shows an attitude. It takes a stand on the right of Polish women to have their own bodies, the right of women in our alliance to control their own body. This shows that we are on their side and are ready to assist them. This is what this suggestion means, nothing more. All the talking and faddleling about the cost is pretext. It's also amazing what they had. Councilmen who spoke of the cost this would mean had little to say about the cost. In fact, they were quick to back up and had no idea what they were talking about, since it's not about cost. It's about ideologies, controlling women's bodies. That's why these guys are snorkeling. Councilmen object to this proposal, they are opposed to pregnancy breakers. It would be normal for them to accept this, to accept it, and to talk to them on such grounds rather than through some bullshit, some excuse, some dishonesty. This is exactly how women's fertility freedom comes from different parts of Europe. It is clothed with compassion, dressed in confessions of faith, dressed in a way quite different from what is available, the authority of men over women's bodies. That's what it's all about. That's what it's about. There should be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u97	Mr. President. I can't afford to come here and protest this case from what it's about. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir's daughter, Thord, who accuses me of dishonesty for worrying about the state funds and expenses that this case might bring for a government fund. What kind of compromise is this, Mr. President? I've just never heard anything like it. I'm on a budget board, and I'm responsible for promoting confidentiality in financial funds, and I've shown here that this case may result in an increase in the cost of government funds. I've already proved it, including in an inquiry that I recently asked for a minister of finance about what was involved in the cost of action for foreigners at the Land Hospital ▪ College Hospital. That's hundreds of millions. So I do not claim to be accused of dishonesty during this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u98	A respectable president. I'm sorry I caused it. A senator so upset. But I still keep it dishonest to come up here and talk about the possible cost of this operation as a reason for opposition to the matter. I don't think that's why the opposition to it. In case of a moment. A senator would agree with me in that the privacy of the individual, the privacy of women, and their right to control their own bodies were fundamental human rights to which we should be on guard and on hand, the potential cost would be not from the cost at all. A senator for cleaning. The reason, the motive behind the problem. Congress officials resist this suggestion simply because they are opposed to pregnancy breakers. The cost may be there, I haven't seen enough evidence of it, but it's worth the effort to make some argument other than the fact that women should not be allowed to control their own bodies. That's the complete dishonesty I was pointing out about. A respectable president. I think it's more honest. A senator admits that he is opposed to a pregnancy break, so he does not want Polish women to break up. I'd be more honest with you.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u99	Mr. President. I don't have to admit one thing or anything before another. Senator. If she had listened to my speech earlier, I initially said that my views on abortion were a well - known Senate, and she knows it well. I generally object to abortions, but I also listed the points of this matter that concern me. I'm worried about the pressures at the Land Hospital because of this, worrying about the staff that's going to take care of these actions, and I'm worried about the costs it might bring to the government, and I'm not too busy to argue about it, if that's the case. A senator has listened to my speech. Something else that has happened since the day of rest. A senator to me is out of turn. I do not assume that it is dishonest to talk about the financial cost. I said it back here, and I'll keep it. As a member of a budget board, I have an obligation to look for ways to achieve a successful position in the financial affairs of the State. There are a number of cases in which foreigners come here looking for medical services in Iceland that will never pay for it and that they will never be able to collect the amount. It's going down on state funds. It's cost, huh? A senator, and there is no dishonesty to report it here in the General's symposium.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u100	A respectable president. I listened to the transmission address. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörðurdóttir and answer her questions. I listened to a talk. paritaprevir Ásmundur, the Friðriksson of Friður, answers to her and then the speaker. paritaprevir So then Þórarinsson, son of Thorin. I don't know why. The senator listened to the discussion until he spoke up because all his concerns were answered in terms of finance, costs, health pressures, the scope of these measures, etc. I'm sorry if I'm concerned with coming up and speaking the case again, despite the fact that these comments have already been answered, simply in order to make comments other than those of the person. A senator is opposed to a break in pregnancy. After all these concerns have been answered, at least to respond, but do not continue to do the same thing after they have been answered, after the concern has been resolved by the senator. I don't see how it's an honest debate either.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u101	A respectable president. We'll discuss an interesting synopsis proposal here. I'm gonna start by saying that I'm sorry and sad when we go into that process when we discuss such important matters, including moral matters, taking specific polarises. You can hear it, for example. Obviously, those who oppose pregnancy break up that they like to have abortions. We took it out of the law last year and put in this word, pregnancy break, instead of abortion. It is clear, then, where the mind of these fine senators lies. But it's also a little far off at the other end, putting people up a little by the wall because of their opinions. The discussion has not only been under these forces but also in inquirys for ministers today and in meeting directors of the last days. I'm going to say that as tragic as I think the trend is going on in Poland, where women's rights and human rights - this trend is actually taking place, unfortunately, in many parts of the world, including In the United States - there is also an overwhelming tragedy and boring trend that is some kind of polarisering in all the discussion. Everyone has to be in a lot of fun, or a lot of fun. At times, we lack to meet in the middle and speak with care. To say that I'm going to say that I find it overwhelmingly sad to see the situation in Poland, and I condemn the actions taking place there. I think it's a significant weigh of the rights of women and human rights in general. We are to be heard because it is important to be heard when it comes to human rights. To tell them, I simply wondered whether foreign citizens will not be allowed to serve today, such as a pregnancy break or other health care. I'm assuming they're going over it at a time. A welfare committee that's gonna get this case covered. But there's nothing in the law of pregnancy that says it's just for the Icelandic citizen. On the other hand, the health care provider for pregnancy interruption should be free of charge for women who are in good health. So I'm curious to know that if a Polish woman walks into the Land Hospital today and asks for a pregnancy break, the hospital is authorized to deny her such service. According to this, I feel that it is not unusual to render that service to Polish women or to those who have not been able to serve in their own country or to look here for other reasons for health care. I've made a pact proposal for death support, which is also a very controversial case. There are moral questions there. There are some countries that have created a law frame around death support, others not. Of course, this makes it possible for people who want such a service to look where they can get it. We can see that, for example. correspondent in Switzerland, where a number of foreigners come every year to seek this service. And whatever we may think of pregnancy rupture, death support, or other service that can provide certain moral questions, I think it's much more reasonable that we here have just a clear frame of service around such things. I've mentioned death support, and I'd like to mention a surrogate too. I think we should dust off a standard-based bill and have a frame around it because we know that people are looking for such service abroad. It refers to women who would seek such services as to be able to present their European health insurance card. If so, I would just like to consider opportunities that can include medical services for foreign citizens, whether those include pregnancy breakes, joint replacements, or anything else. We in Iceland have highly educated health groups and good health systems. I see nothing wrong with us carrying out such knowledge by inviting foreign agents to come here and attend such a service. And regardless of whether we were foreigners or Icelanders, I have long spoken of our having some sort of gynaecological center, away from seeing how great health care can be and serving a variety of services. We're in real world class when we get here, for example. to minister to pregnant women, to our midwives, and to our nurses, and to all the services that women receive during pregnancy, in birth, and in baby care, is entirely stupid. But when I was pregnant, I didn't want to go to the clinic and get that service, I wanted to see my gynecologist or midwife. I would like to see here an independently active gynaecology center where women whom it chooses can choose their midwife or doctor and nurse and serve. I think there's an extra chance in this, so I'm celebrating this Senate resolution. I hope it can also cause us to discuss health care in a wider context, look to independent active individuals there, as well as to whether we can extend this service to foreign citizens who are either guaranteed by the European health insurance card or have other guarantees that can pay for such service.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before her involvement in this discussion. But I took it to account of this strange phenomenon that the word has been banned, that it has been taken out. I say for my part that I can't see how, in all cases, I could be forbidden or others to use the word abortion and obligation to use the term "pregnancy. " When you have a baby, you have a baby. There is no pregnancy break. The word of pregnancy does occur, but it is a fetus and the pregnancy will be interrupted if the foetus is no longer allowed to live. I think it's a little strange, and I'd like an explanation. I'd like to know, too. A senator believes that this council proposal is totally meaningless. She simply said that women in Poland who have a European medical card could already come here for this operation, that there is nothing to stop them from. Is this true? Counts 'em out. A senator really that it's clear that they can only come here, and as a result, is this council proposal totally meaningless?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u103	A respectable president. I'm not gonna say no. A senator uses any words as long as they are Icelandic. If I was on the President's chair, I'd warn you. A senator would do so if he began to use foreign words. But what I was pointing out is that the law is now called a pregnancy breaking law. They used to have some long and great name, where there could be a both gender instruction and instructions, and there was an abortion. This is specifically discussed in a bill to correct a pregnancy block, why these words are being changed in this way into lyrics, and there is a reason for this. It is also a reason if you watch direct translations, both in Scandinavian languages and in English. That's what I was pointing at. I think we can read people's position slightly from the word they use here in this speech chair, when this particular procedure is being discussed. That's just what I was pointing at. But, hey. A senator is perfectly permitted to use the word that is acceptable to him, as if allowed to have his entire position on the matter. Is this council proposal totally unnecessary? Clearly not, for we have spent a few days discussing it, and it is only good and interesting to communicate about it, especially when there can be a moral foundation. I simply ask myself, " Would a woman from Poland be denied such assistance today? ' The interpretation proposal goes on to prevent such restrictions from being used. I assume it will be checked specifically at the moment. A well - being committee, when discussing this sensuous proposal, whether it is allowed today or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answers. I just have to say, just as it is for me, a pregnancy breakdown is a word used to put an abortion in a beautiful dressing. But that does not say, even though I use abortion, I object to abortion. I'm not. I can understand abortion and support it if a woman is raped, if something is wrong with a child or a mother, but it is my opinion that such an operation should be performed preferably before week 12. In definitions of the fetus, all organs have begun to form, to the initial stage. It's just the opinion I have. It has also terrified me, and still frightens me when we have discussed the use of pregnancy breakers instead of the word abortion, that there was talk of allowing that operation until the last minute. That's a terrible thought to me. And when we left for 22 weeks, I felt that it was a terrible thought too. I'm asking why. A senator: Is she convinced that there should be no limit? That it is the woman's right to have such an operation until the last hour of pregnancy? I also ask myself, " Is there a health problem that a woman is pregnant? ' Are there problems with the health system that make a woman pregnant?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u105	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks me about the basis for the adjustment we had a year ago in pregnancy. I supported it as a bill, but the criteria were that of an embryo outside the womb. We drew the boundary at a time point where the fetus was not considered viable outside the womb. That is how the Icelandic legislation, based on it. I also made it okay in my speeches when we discussed pregnancy ruptures at the time, that I tried to think about and visualize all possible images. I understand that people do not agree with pregnancy break or abortion, such as the case. A senator calls it, and wouldn't want to go through such things himself. That is perfectly normal, even counseling their immediates to do so. But when it comes to putting laws in this country for all of them, we need to think on every show. Hv. A senator mentioned that he could be in favor of such an action under certain circumstances. Then we would have to write it into our laws about the circumstances in which it is and who should determine whether these circumstances are relevant or not. When I went through that process, I came to the conclusion that it was the only right thing to do when we went to the law on pregnancy break, i.e. that the woman alone can determine if this is the right decision for her. Not local doctors or medical advice, psychologists based on the background of the relevant woman or the diagnosis of the fetus. That's my point. Now I've just forgotten who the second question is. The senator was, if it were health issues. In any case, the classes that handle pregnant women are health - care professionals, midwives, and nurses. Yes, it must be part of the health system. We talk about the health of these women and how successful we have been in good health care for pregnant women. I think it's the best signal on our good health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u106	A respectable president. I don't have a direct question in my own life. A senator, but I would like to hear her view of something I read on the famous Internet. It's about polarizing as a night. A senator said that we saw the increase in polarise in the community with regard to various litigation groups. What I read on the Internet was the attitude I've wondered about since, is this really polarizing? Is it not more so that there are extremes in one direction that are moving the so-called Overton window in their direction and the other side is not cool with it? Is it more complicated than that? Where's the polarist? We only see a greater degree of extremeism and extremeism in terms of political success, e.g. correspondent in Poland and the United States In fact, what a blessing it was to lose Trump recently, and let's celebrate it, and finally something happened right on the world scene in 2020. I wanted to ask for some attitude. A senator's idea, because I know why. A senator appreciates the topic of conversation, such as the one mentioned here. I'm not entirely convinced that this is the same amount of polarise as it is and that it is simply an extreme and normal reaction to the higher levels of extremes. The reason why I think this is important is because this point feels very important to me in the discussion on this subject and related issues, i.e. things like freedom and women's rights and things like that. For one thing, such things occur when extreme forces advance. As I said here at the beginning, I haven't directed a question to why. A senator, but he is interested in whatever she has to say about it as about many other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u107	A respectable president. With respect to polarisation: I think the image that took place. A senator here draws up just what is happening in Poland. I'm not particularly concerned about polarization there, just because extreme forces have come to the fore with their extreme views, it's only natural to pull back. I was rather talking in general about politics, and I was perhaps describing a bit of the conversation here in the conference hall because there's going to be a bit of toughness and a little bit of polarizing in our discussion, either people with or grossly opposed. But there's a really big field between them. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson said earlier that he was not against pregnancy breaking up certain situations, if I understood them correctly. Of course, that is anything but the political authorities in Poland speak for. They've taken away all rights, no matter what happens to the woman. What I was pointing out is that the tail is so big and so big. Hv. A senator entered the fine Internet. If we go further into the Internet and community media, it is somehow a bit encouraging that either people are present or opposed, and they need to explain their position in a single line or a short entry. I think it's a little bit of a problem with the political debate, the political tradition, and the debate all over it. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned the United States, and I believe, e.g. that there is a real problem when it comes to the United States where people have made progress by speaking to some kind of simple solution on very complex subjects, something that can be brought forward in some one move on theTwitter, and just saying that all the others are beginning to believe it too but fortunately did not believe in it, and I congratulate them on a newly elected president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u108	Mr. President. We're going through unprecedented times. This time, I'm not talking about the Korean epidemic. I'm talking about the fact that over the last few years, people around the world have been progressively helped to overcome the acquired rights. To this day, evolution had been one way, but there has been a tremendous worldwide setback that the United Nations Secretary - General of the United Nations uses every opportunity to encourage the world's kingdoms to fight that relapse. With this suggestion, which I am with the importer to, with the giddy. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörðurdóttir and 16 other members of Congress are responding to that setback, saying: No, we're not ready for this. Women have the right to control their own bodies. We confirmed this when we took up a new and progressive law on pregnancy breaking the winter of 2018-2019, where Iceland, across the main current of the world, took steps forward, took steps to benefit women's rights, at the same time that Poland was constantly riding backwards. The fact that political legislation has become the same as it does in a single night did not occur. Rather, it is part of a long - term development. It has not been a void. Rather, it is part of the organized international work, well-proved resources that have chosen Poland as some sort of laboratory, lab, to test out how long it is possible to gain retrospective legislation when it comes to pregnancy break. In the European Union, there are a total of 2,930 lobsterists, 203/430 institutions that spend half a billion dollars just to influence legislation in Brussels, just to influence European legislation. They have branches in different parts of Europe and are responsible, especially for the way things are being done in Poland today. Of course, the way that we members of the council can be suggested is not the way we would like to go. Women would normally be able to pursue health care at home. We know well - researched examples of the time when Irish women had to look outside the landstones for this service, just two years ago. At that time, it was the more prosperous ones could pursue it. Just before the Irish agreed to allow pregnancy break again, about 12 Irish women went to Britain each day to attend that service. Among them were not the poor women, not immigrants, not the women with the weakest social standing, who may still be the women who need this service most. The back layer shown, including in controlled pregnancy break laws are also seen in opposition to sex education or contraception, which was the reason that the Donald Trumpur government reduced the United States's cooperation with the United Nations public organization. There probably is no development aid that gives the same amount of effort as teaching girls and women about sex and childbearing and providing them with the services they need in order to experience the full amount of fertility freedom. That's not what Donald Trump wanted, but he's not the only one. He has the Polish government with him, and as we learned, when we were discussing the pregnancy - breaking laws in this hall, he has some local brothers. This does not mean that the Polish Pharisees, as some senators would like to be. Rather, they point to a simple fact. This organized womanish, repetitive, has a perplexity here in this hall. It is a fact that we need to come to realize in order to safeguard the rights that we feel so self - righteous. It has been said about how many women could possibly benefit from this service and whether we were confronted with the women who arrived in Iceland from Poland or Malta who would do so later during pregnancy, while the average woman living in Iceland. There is no way to predict this, but experience does not just show us. Rather, it shows that women who are going to break a pregnancy do so as soon as they can. In this country, 80% of women break down their pregnancy after less than nine weeks of pregnancy, and those who do so after an additional 91,12 weeks are 15%. These are basically all women who have a pregnancy break. They do it as soon as they can. I would think that if a woman living in Poland suspected that she was pregnant, she would go as far as possible, knowing how narrow the place is in her country. There have been a host of reports on the possible cost of this event in the United States, and there were a lot of people missing out on the black in the motion that the cost will be paid through the European health insurance system. But according to this system, of course, the woman involved has to go out of the operation according to the health insurance prices. This has been discussed with the extent to which some would view the use of a health - care system. There is something that a health committee will likely consider carefully and carefully. However, the fact remains to be noted that in Iceland the rate of pregnancy discontinuation is 80% of drugs. They will not work any more, so a woman will see a doctor and be prescribed the medicine she is taking. In extreme circumstances, some further medical intervention may be required that may impact the hospital's function. The fact is, this case is part of such a much larger picture than only Iceland or Poland. This is about our living in a world where a woman leaves her life every 8 minutes because of unsuspecting pregnancy discontinuation because she has the circumstances of not being able to get legal health care in her home but needs to consult someone who does not know what they are doing, may be performing operations in an unhealthy situation, and women may be selling medicines that are supposed to be pregnant but which contain some medicines. Every 8 minutes, one of them dies. By accepting this proposal, the Icelandic Parliament would be saying, "No, we want these women to live."
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u109	A respectable president. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson spoke of the words in his speech that fell today that it was a very simple matter, of 80% receiving medication in Iceland. Does he think that if a number of women came from Poland, it would be possible to use a similar number, 80% of drugs, and send them home? If not, where should they be sent? The other is what I heard earlier, that there were women's hostile powers, if you weren't quite willing to agree, then there's an unreactable abortion. I have to say right now, it's just a completely incomprehensible phenomenon. We talk about health care, we're talking about something healthy, and we talk about pregnant women who use health care to monitor the fetus, that everything is healthy and all is okay. I don't know how to define when a woman goes to health care with a child who's over 12 weeks, had heart beat, and all, that she wants to have an abortion because it's all healthy out there, except, of course, the reason the woman's having an abortion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u110	A respectable president. I suppose I've had two questions from what? Senator. The first turned to where a Polish woman would go if she received medication in the hospital to break up pregnancy. I don't know. I know that a hotel room is something a woman in this position could use, she might know some people in the city, can go home to it as people out of the country do, for example. Often, when they go to serve in the capital city, they find themselves serving. I think Polish women, like all women, like most people, are resourceful enough to figure out where they put themselves when they get these drugs that break pregnancy. There was no question about it. A member of the Women's Religious Forces I spoke of. It is simply so that they work around the world to be very effective against the availability of women to provide health care related to fertility. Perhaps the most gross way they are working in Africa is because they have a direct influence on the death of women. They are responsible for the inability of women to seek necessary medical care during pregnancy or during pregnancy or pregnancy or to interrupt pregnancy. Whether it's health care or not, I don't think we should argue about it because it's only legal. It is, by law. We put it here a year and a half ago in this hall, and most of the council agreed that it was health care, and it has often been the case in the past that one of the most common causes of death among women in this country, as is still today in many parts of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the answer. Hotel room, to go there after dosing. I say for my part, if I were a woman I couldn't put myself in, who has to decide to have an abortion, I can't imagine getting medication and then going to a hotel room. I would feel that the woman would need much more care. It's a spiritual shock. It's a physical shock. What a shock this must be, first of all, to be in that situation, to think about the need to make such a decision, and then to go on and on. We'll be at least having a reputation in us to make sure that those women get all the services they need just to get through this trauma that it must be having an abortion. They get all the help they can get. Then I ask myself, " How far do we have to go in this regard? ' I say, as far as we need. I don't get it, and I'm kind of dumb about it, and I don't know how to express it, putting myself in the shoes of women who had to do it. That must be one of the scariest experiences they've ever had. A Senator shakes his head, and I think to myself, " Wow, I might be confused in some way. It would be good to have an answer from what? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u112	A respectable president. This is where we stand. The senators, who neither, I believe, have ever had a uterus, and discuss the experiences of women of becoming pregnant and having to break their pregnancy. Hv. A senator imagines it to be the scariest experience possible to break a pregnancy. This is not what happened when we discussed a pregnancy break in a welfare committee. It said exactly that because those women who make the decision to break out, or to do so because they need or because they want to, they feel relieved at the end of the operation. Of course, we need social resources to seize women if they are to be settled at the end of the operation, of course. We discussed this, too, if it did not find its way in the greater view of the welfare committee at the time. But it's just like any operation in the health system, feelings can come behind people after an operation, and the system is supposed to be able to grab people and lead them through those feelings. But that is not the basis for women's right to control their own body. Now I'm trying to remember what word was used, yes, the word that was used for the final bill's payment on pregnancy break from the bottom. paritaprevir Inga Sæland, Chairman of the Gangs, was a fan of women. So it was spoken against the self - determination of women by calling him ecstatic. [[The president calls.]] But it's just that. Whether we call it personal or personal, it is about trusting the woman. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] She is fully capable of making that decision herself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u113	A respectable president. At the beginning of this discussion, I did not intend to speak, and even more, after the case was spoken by the 1st traveller, she reviewed everything I think matters materially regarding the proposal. I'm a co-sponsor of the proposal, so I support it. Today's discussions have not led me to change my mind. However, it is the same in this discussion as in the recent case of pregnancy failure, when we accepted new and good laws, that men come up here and talk about things that they obviously have no understanding, and are unable to know about biology and therefore draw wrong conclusions, which are natural to do if you don't have the right information, when you fill too much in the gaps. I've noticed that it's like some men who listen to this discussion don't quite hear what the women say. I want to try as a man to speak to these men. I want to direct this talk to them solely. Then I ask my leading feminist friends to hold their ears, perhaps because it may be a bit of a manly speech. The objective is to reach out to my male brothers, who seem to not quite reach the point behind what may include. This is a matter of freedom. Freedom of people to control their own bodies. War is an extremely masculine phenomenon, in my opinion, a testosterone toxind through, usually from A to Z. But if you ask a man who may be opposed to this matter, on the conservative side, whether it was right to sacrifice something to protect his freedom in the second world war, all the chances are that he would say: "Yes, there was to sacrifice lives, men's lives, women's lives, all kinds of lives, to protect his freedom. ' And do we do so because we like to sacrifice? No, of course not. But we honor the memory of those who sacrificed themselves to defend our freedom. Speaking of which. For the General Assembly there is a decree to honor the memory of the Icelanders who died during World War II. I don't myself make the suggestion, but I'm coming to support her if she makes a vote. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ With Icelanders and allies, all are indebted to those who staked their lives on these cruises with complete awareness of the risks. As suggested in the Senate arrangement, the sacrifices of those who had suffered great losses and are long ago time to bring honor to their memory. This is not a complicated cause, to make sacrifices for liberty. He is well understood among the same men who come here and protest this case or the right of women to control their own bodies in general. The reason I'm pointing this out is because we're listening to talks from some reason. Senators, in particular, those not in the hall right now -- I don't make any comments, there's a lot to do in Congress, as we know - I sense that these dogs are. Senators don't realize this point. That it's about women's freedom. But they come up here and are extremely worried that standing with women's freedom in Poland and in Malta, and elsewhere, sacrifices may be needed, that we may have to pay something for it. They should know that there are times when sacrifice is required to defend our freedom. Today, in those words, freedom is attacked in its vastest form, including in Poland, not just against women, not just to control women, but to control the whole community, in order to fight the idea of liberal democracy itself. This involves disrespect for the rights of minorities and antipathy of minorities, an abomination of self - determination in general, especially of women and minorities. And it is our responsibility to enjoy the freedom that other people have sacrificed their lives to protect, to defend their freedom now. And if it takes any sacrifice for the government fund, my men, then it's just to have it. I hope that I have not walked out of all my friends who may not be fond of this kind of fighting talk, but sometimes I feel that it is only with men to stand up and talk to each other when it is clear that some men do not listen to the women and do not understand the cause even if they themselves would fight for him if they realized what they were talking about. Women's right to control their own body is human rights. It's just that way. I would risk government funds and myself to defend this freedom far more than is this proposal. I think it's my duty, not just as a man, but as a human being, to embrace a liberal democracy over his head.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u114	A respectable president. This discussion has been published in many parts of the world. She's gone all the way to war. Of course, I never thought of supporting war. Women's freedom, yes. But freedom to express myself and to have opinions, am I walking on women's rights and freedoms? If I believe that we should do all we can to avoid abortion after 12 weeks of pregnancy, am I going to walk on their rights, their freedom? I don't think so. I think I just have a certain opinion. I reasoned with her earlier with the references that I read earlier about the condition of the fetus during that period because all the organs have been involved. That's what I'm worried about. It's also strange when you hear in this context that it was claimed that all women were relieved, that I understood, about having an abortion. I have no faith in that, no faith in it. That may not be a relief, but there may be some who believe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u115	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. At least at this assembly and during the election season, a senator can find a more radical advocate of freedom of expression than the one listed here. If anyone says no. A senator using the word abortion will be the first to jump onto deck to protect her for granted just right away. Senator. On the other hand, if a person makes a comment or even gets angry at a reason. A senator uses that word to help him little because the anger and comments are part of the same freedom of expression. About what question? I suggest that a senator break the pregnancy itself. A senator will listen to the talks given by the women who have spoken about it by knowledge and insight and experience. I don't have it. I can't answer it. Senator. I trust people to make decisions and to take them into account points as well as points from the right. A senator who's, with all due respect, not new. They are old, and they have been mentioned repeatedly. Those women who have decided to break a pregnancy or to speak here for the law that we have, have all the skills anyone has to take into account that evidence. So I'm referring to what. Women to answer. That's what a senator does. Hv. A senator mentioned that the discussion goes to war. Yes, indeed. But that's also because there's nothing less than a Nazism and, a respectable president, I'm not using the word as foul, I'm talking about people who call themselves Nazis, walking along streets with flags, burning fires in the name of Nazism that's going up right now, including. correspondent in Poland That's what's at stake. Talking about World War II and its lessons are just fitting. We are facing the rise of Nazism. And by the way, there was talk about Trump the other day. I may find it terribly inappropriate to call him Nazis. He doesn't call himself a Nazi, but you know who he is, a respected President? Nazis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. We agree completely on freedom of expression, and I also agree completely with him on the rise of Nazism. It's kind of the scariest thing going on right now. Unfortunately, he seems to be growing again. You always worry that history repeats, it seems to. Although we list everything and put it all in spoken words and books, it seems that we have short - term memory in that respect so that we always seem to repeat the same nonsense over and over again. We've noticed in this council hall that we're always in the same situation and that we don't get a lot lost, both in the rights, in the poorer citizens, in the seniors, in the ladies, and in the other. But there's also some good discussion about this particular Senate arrangement that's going on here, I think it's healthy and normal. We should not view such a case, whether we call it a pregnancy break or an abortion, as a minor matter. This is serious. I've read the story of women, and I know that not all women feel relief. It's so far from here. You've heard terrible stories about women who have never had the pleasure of going through this process. Then there are others we know who, not knowingly, have simply lost their fetus during pregnancy. So it is not a trivial discussion and not a single one - sided one. There are many aspects of this matter, and we are under obligation to discuss it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u117	A respectable president. I can't tell you how women generally feel about this. The women need to tell me themselves. Then I listen or try to listen and try to understand as much as I can from the insight I have, no matter how much I have. The basis for this is, and I feel that I am repeating the same point that has been repeatedly proposed: It is possible to speak in all respects about pregnancy break. There's a lot of things to talk about there. I don't detract. I just agree. That's what a senator does. But the question that remains at the Council is: Who should be in charge? Who's gonna decide? Who is to make these facts and facts and observations and make decisions? Of course, it is the person involved. That's the basic thing here. It does not in itself involve women, men, or gender except in the sense that women carry their children. Other than that, I find this dot so simple, and it means everything. As individuals, we have our own body. That should be enough in my world to settle the discussion. Every question I had. A senator might wonder what it's like to be in a position we've never been in and will never be, very unlikely at all, I suppose - I'll just refer them to those who know what they're talking about. It's the women themselves. Whose decision is it to make? Let the people who face the decision make it. And when it comes to a pregnancy break, within the reasonable limits we have set in the law, it's the women themselves. To me, it's no more complicated than that. And to be honest, I don't understand why there is much more to it when it comes to that legal question in itself. Once we're on the point in a liberal democracy that we have individuals to this extent, we're supposed to fight for that freedom by Congress laws like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u118	A respectable president. I would like to start by saying that we are in the General Assembly Hall in 2020. When I listen to this discussion, I feel that it is a reason to remind me. We now have this conversation about women's rights in 2020. We also have this conversation about women's rights at the Generals Hall and in a country that boasts of success in equality. We are world powers of equality, according to World Economic Forum's lists and have been for 11 years. But a crisis is often a soil for relapse. I'd still like to frame up where we came from. We are a nation of well-founded birthworm legislation. We've established legislation to handle pay rights with equally pay-authorization. We've established legislation on sexuality in companies. We have set rules on approval to emphasize and protect women's sexual freedoms. All political groups taking themselves seriously guard their gender ratios and look out for women's rights. Here is a discussion involving major attacks on the basic rights of women and the miserable position of women in Poland. They are intended to complete the pregnancy of a child who is known to have no life after birth. This is the situation in Poland. But I have to say, after listening to the conversation here today, that I worry about Icelandic women's position when I listen to the argument and play the game. After all, it is natural that the most men who speak in this way are unconcerned by this lack of respect and rights for women. If we go back and look back at the legislation that was accepted here before I sat at a council, about the time point of break-off in Iceland, then, almost without exception, I think, of that, the situation of pregnancy being different from it. Once we are inside this period of time, the woman is 20 weeks away, and she is carrying a child she wants to have. No woman carries a child for five months if her mind or intention does not exist. Then, in an ultrasound examination on this very point of time, it becomes evident that something is so important that the situation changes. This time mark remains in place during ultrasound examination. There is something that reveals that is likely to bring life's greatest sorrow to that woman and her husband. And the fact that people here are talking about in the context that women should know how their children come into existence, is so real and out of a map. I'm so offended that I can barely put my arms around it. The other point, I feel, is the view of those categories that most often consider themselves to be talking for freedom of person. But freedom of persons also includes women, not just middle - aged men. I must admit that I have understanding and compassion for religious views. I have more respect for the point of view. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, who simply disagrees that this can be done. This is true of Icelandic women as well as Polish. He has his convictions, his reasons. I seriously disagree with them, but I understand what that is all about. So the argument is that now is not the time to discuss this, because, of course, it is human right that they can sometimes apply, but they can be cut off from the table. The basis for the cost, to me, for almost everyone here who has spoken, virtually, set out as some shelter for another view, a shelter for what they find hard to say. I find it special for members of political parties, and when you look at the votes on this matter in terms of the Icelandic legislation that was here to be treated some time ago, people who speak for individual freedom are willing to cut it down so easily and cruelly when it comes to women. I'll get to finish what I started. The year is 2020, when we have this tragic conversation, which I expect will continue in reply. If there is any doubt as to whether this conversation, this discussion, reflects a setback in Iceland's equal struggle -- it obviously does, in Poland -- but if there is any doubt whether here we're looking at a setback in the equal struggle when a senator comes up with these arguments, which I hear we'll get more of the following, the uncertainty has been destroyed at the World Congress today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u119	A respectable president. Sometimes you can be completely dumb, that's what you're up to. I say for my part that I think there would now be a sound in the corner if I came up here to say that I spoke in one voice right and 100% in the name of all the men in the country and their opinions. I couldn't. [[Up front.]] I wouldn't think of it for a minute. But to come up here and say, if we disagree with something, that it's just right, that all women agree with this. What has a what? A senator assumes that all women support this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u120	I never said that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u121	Yes, you said, "The right of all women." And that's why you're talking for all women. I just object that we men aren't allowed to come up here and discuss things on our terms. You say it's okay when religion is behind you. Would it be okay for me to come up here and have completely believed that we should go back to the ancients and that women should be oppressed? Would that be all right, then, because religion humbled down, so you could reason with me on that? That doesn't make any sense. I just have a different opinion, and I'm just passing my mind on it, and I'm holding it and she's right. I can keep it here. To speak down to us for that reason and say that because we do not have religion behind us, we must not feel that way, of course, is absurd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u122	The president would like to warn members of the Parliament not to engage in conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u123	Mr. President. So I corrected a fundamental guess. I was not saying that every woman in the world would agree with me on this message. But I'm saying that the impaired justice that has taken place in Poland is, of course, a violation of the rights of all women in that country. I experience some of the things that have been heard in talks here today as if people were at least To do the same things in Iceland and to impair the rights of all women. Of course, very many women, and doubtless most women, do not take advantage of this right. But we're talking about them having this right. And about the answer that a senator can have his own opinions, of course he can. He can have all his opinions on this. I'm just worried about what they think. In this regard, I would like to say that the senator has a right to his own opinions, but he is not entitled to his facts, to create them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I just have to say and repeat it: I support women in Poland 100% against the law there. I think it's completely ridiculous, and I think it goes entirely back to the ancients. I really support women 100% if they have to have an abortion when they're afraid of their lives, their baby, if that's under the circumstances and within the limits of the law. But I can be against what weeks we're going to aim for. It doesn't affect me that I don't feel that way, even though I don't have it because of religion. There's no religion in this context, it's just my feeling and my opinion. That's what I've been walking around here today. For my part, this has been a very good discussion. Perhaps the saddest thing about how few of us are involved in it is because I think we had to have more in our discussion. We would have had to discuss this better. The situation of women in Poland and other parts of the world in a similar situation is terrible, for no woman is to be in. We're supposed to be far beyond that frame, but how far we're going, we can debate. I think we can agree to disagree completely on that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u125	Mr. President. I reiterate the second time that a member of the council is free, and in fact he is obliged to follow his convictions and opinions. I also agree that we can agree to disagree. It is a pleasure, though, to know that the senator declares that he supports the European legislation in this regard. Of course, the main thing, the core and the point of law is the time point. To say, "I'm all for having this right to week 6, 8 or whatever the time limit is, the bill isn't supported. " Women's protection is not supported. And again I remind myself of what I think a senator is aware of the reasons: When a woman is confronted with the waste of 20 weeks, that there is something major, such as the child is severely disabled, the baby is not in mind after birth, or that the life of the woman is put in danger. So when it happened. One senator says: "We can have a view of the time limit, so I say: This does not mean the rights of women.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u126	A respectable president. Again, I speak up in the hope of talking to men who often reflect on questions and viewpoints that I may have a better position to promote because I am a man. It's been mentioned here. 7. Reykv.. n. intended to speak for all women, it was now corrected in reply earlier, but it is the same freedom as men take for granted. It is simply not to be separated from men. This debate is about whether women should make these decisions themselves, or not, whether we are here to make decisions for all women because we know what all women feel or should not and should let women make their own decisions. That's the point. So when it happened. 7. Smoke. n., no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A senator did not pretend to know what every woman thinks because she is a woman. On the contrary, she does not know what all women think. A general doesn't know what every woman thinks. Me and what. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. Certainly, all women do not know what they think.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u127	Not the lawgiver, either.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u128	And neither is the lawgiver. That's right. That's the point. Then there's something else. 12th p.m. We're out of here. Also mentioned in his talk that I hear in many places. I hope it doesn't sound like I'm taking a wrong turn. A senator, this was just an act of his, and that's why I'm coming up here again -- it's that men aren't allowed to discuss it. I understand that, I'm a man, it happens to me that I'm told that my view just doesn't exist because I'm a man. And I think it's pretty boring. At the same time, however, it is important for us men to understand when our evaluation is beneficial. When it comes to evaluating intuition or feelings into situations that we have neither experience nor experience from, or to see any experience in personal life, our evaluation is not necessarily beneficial. Then it can be foolish to start talking about something that everyone in the room knows you don't know. At first, this is probably silly and tiresome. But when it goes on for decades or centuries, or thousands of years for now, it may begin to be more annoying and more difficult to minimize the speech of those who are exposed to it, you see, the women themselves. We certainly have the authority to come up here and say what we want to say, and I say it only to everyone here: I say what I like, as I like, to whoever I like, for the reasons I like and the things I like. There's nothing for discussion, that's just the way it is. The authorities just have to accept that fact. But I prefer to conduct my case here so that people will listen to me as much as they can so that the evidence will be as clear as possible, that I will say as much of a sense as I can of nothing. This expedition evaluates what my view as a man in the discussion of pregnancy break is beneficial. And that is the question we men need to ask ourselves when we engage in this discussion, not whether we are allowed to say what we want to say - we are allowed to do it - but whether it is useful. There's another question, and I think it's best from my own experience in this, that we have it with ourselves and we try to find the right conclusion on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u129	The President reminds us of an Icelandic phrase that is referred to as a "circumcionist's reaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u130	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u131	Mr. President. I'm not going to use my entire talk period here in my second speech, but I still want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for this discussion, the fine participation in the discussion, and, at the same time, to validate the purpose of the proposal. The purpose of the Parliamentary proposal is to take a decisive position in European women's rights. That we, senators at the National Assembly of the Icelanders, take a strong and clear stand with the rights of women in Poland, who are entirely capable of trying to destroy. Because we have a reputation, a position to support the women's rights struggles in Poland, and we are under obligation to do so. We are particularly obliged to do so when we witness a serious setback when it comes to women's legal struggle, the woman's self - determination over her own body. This is now taking place in Europe, in Member States of the European Union, in countries that have accepted international agreements and commitments to respect human rights, in order to respect women's rights. That is why we are simply obliged to send out a clear message that allows us to protect human rights and not sit by and say nothing and do nothing because we are not taking sides with human rights and women's rights. I also want to be rights, because local councilmen who are concerned about the cost of state funds and the pressures of the health system have come up here, that I understand the concern of the health system under the present circumstances of a pandemic. I understand them well, and I understand that people will talk to them about their concerns. But I ask the council members to worry about this, if that's really why, if that's the real reason, not to be afraid of it. There will not be more than tens of thousands of women, as some members have claimed. We don't know anything about that. This interpretation proposal is also about hiding the health minister, the executive, the administration, the access of individuals who travel to the country in order to undergo pregnancy break because the woman or girl does not receive this rights in her own country. I just wanted to decide what the main purpose of the council resolution is because this has been a bit of a discussion and a little south. This has been discussed with the law adopted at the council last spring, law No. 43/2019, which is a complete re-examination of the pregnancy break-in law. It may not be strange, for we have a law code that stands very early in Europe and also puts us in a place where we can send a clear message to women in Poland and also in Malta that we can and we want to stand by women's rights. But I thank you again for the support shown by members of the council who are associated with this council's resolution. I thank you for this discussion that we've had here on the radio, and I wish it would. The welfare committee is very thorough on this subject. I remind you that such widespread support for the synoptic proposal encourages such a rapid progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u132	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the increased forest for carbon binding. The conclusions are as follows: The Council concludes to hide the Environment and Resource Minister in order to plan four times a year to create newforests in the next five years, from three million plants to 12 million plants. The plan will be carried out in cooperation with governments, farmers, wood farms, forests, employment and the public, and aims to multiply the forest chemistry of carbon, to create new jobs in scattered areas, and to increase over the long period of valuables, career opportunities and land quality in the region. Ministers give the plan to the Council for March 1, 2021. The movers, along with the people here, are the reason. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bergþórór Þórarinsson, Birggnarnsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Jón Gunnarsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. One of the most efficient and important natural operations available to us in the fight against climate problems is the culture of new forests, new forests. To cope with the changes that are taking place on earth and to cope with this trend, people around the world are working to assess the potential contribution to the development of new forests on a forested land. New forestry in this country reduces greenhouse gas emissions from broken land and binds carbon into trees and soils as it creates new jobs and valuables, promotes human health, and improves ecosystems's biological and biological production. New forestry in this country reduces greenhouse gas emissions from broken land and binds carbon into trees and soil as it creates new jobs and valuables, promotes human health, and improves ecosystems's biological and biological production. This arrangement suggests that environmental and resource ministers will be assigned to work on a strategy aimed at putting power in newforestation, especially to carbon binding, so that from the year 2025, 12 million tree plants will be planted annually instead of the present three million plants. It is thus assumed that the plans will be carried out in cooperation with the government with the wood industry, deforestation, farmers, careers, and the public. It aims to produce large - scale carbon links with forestry and to create new diversity and lasting green opportunities across the country. In short, the aim of the programme must be first to increase the carbon binding of forests in Iceland and second, to promote the development of Iceland's forestry. Third, the suggestion is that in the next five years, our annual foresting plant will be four times. Finally, there will be green jobs all over the country, both soon and into the future. Mr. President. At present, economic recovery is accompanied by increasing unemployment. This development is particularly evident in the scattered areas of the country that over the last few years have benefited from the growing tourism. Therefore, a vigorous injection into the economy is urgent and not charged if it is at the same time green, thus meeting the objectives of sustainable and climate-exploited solutions. Forests can easily be increased in one of Europe's most forested and forested countries. The forest binds carbon and crops of crops to the value of organic materials and later to valuable wood and wood. A project to grow, to care for forests, to create a job and to bind carbon, which is, Mr. President, in fact, a product of sales that will immediately develop during the last few decades later. So forestry is an interesting mixture of short-term and long-term investments in employment instruments, as well as the ability to play a significant role in making Iceland a non-carbon object in the predictable future. Forest industry also creates shelter and increases the value and production of land. The development of forests on land that take place in vegetation and soil erosion is one of the most deadly weapons against erosion and erosion of soil and at the same time enhances biodiversity. Forests provide more protection, providing greater opportunities for agriculture, thus supporting the established agricultural sector. The deck ensures and increases products e.g. The production of crops, crops, and food crops support the country's food security. Bus money is more comfortable in shelter than in berries, as the cost of maintenance of buildings is reduced from the forest weather. Mr. President. Newforestation by sustainable forest industry is expected to match the international treaties the Icelanders are and will support most if not all the sustainable objectives of the United Nations. Solid data from research and monitoring of forest carbon binding in Iceland show that on average, about 10 tons of carbon dioxide per acres [U.S.] of forest are bound each year. Of course, this binding varies, e.g. depending on local local or local growth of the tree species, this should be confirmed on a case by case basis. Forests, however, bind significantly more carbon in an area than a forestless land, and work on developing a carbon - based system in Iceland that meets the international requirements for such projects. More than enough land is available here for forestry, without the sacrifice of other valuables or farms. Mr. President. Iceland is in an unusual position where nearly all the forests of the country were destroyed, followed by massive deforestation and land erosion. During land mines, about one third of the country was covered with birch forests and bush, but now a bear grows only about 1.5% of the land, and a forest covers 0.5% of the land. What does the fourfold development of the new forest in the future involve? It means that by 2025 the annual vegetation has been quadrified from 3 million trees, such as today, to 12 million. It also includes the fact that in 2032 the European Forests will bind 587,000 tons of carbon dioxide a year, and the area of the new forest will be 75,000 acres [7,000 ha]. In the year 2040, only after 20 years, if this route takes place, the annual binding of the forest will be 886,000 tons of carbon dioxide and the area of the new forest will be close to 112,000 hectares. It will involve a much greater reduction in Iceland's net emissions of carbon dioxide levels than would be the result of unchanged forestry. As a result, we Icelanders will become self-sustained through timber in 2060, based on the current import of a timber. Mr. President. Let us note that enough land is ready for breeding in accordance with this proposal, e.g. Treated countries of some 650 farmers in the forest for deforestation of all over the country and throughout the country, the productive land of land healing. There are various government, rural and forestry projects, such as forestry and Hiklu forests, and the cooperation of forestry with agriculture and rural society in new forest development, e.g. and at Hazarah, and elsewhere. All infrastructures are present in order to increase the production of new forests, such as crops, professionals, research experts, and necessary equipment. In an article published in the 2017 Woodroof, written by Snorrason and Sigríður Júlía Brynleifsdóttir, a predictor of carbon binding can be described as the basis for forecasting if deforestation became fourfold, as this proposal suggests. That's where even the two of them come from. To the end that after just 30 years, the Icelandic forest will bind more than a million tons, which will continue to increase as the present progress adds much less. The model, based on real-time data from cultivated Icelandic forests, has been assessed methodically by members of the United Nations Interim Committee on Climate Change and Accepted. An annual average binding of carbon dioxide in acres is shown in a table produced by the above - mentioned Arnór and Sigríður Júlía, based on different forest batch types, which can be seen on annual averages of carbon dioxide's tons per hectare, i.e. The length of the forest from the planting to the fold, the vegetation of the forest, and the development of the trees. An estimated 10 tons of carbon dioxide per hectare per hectare; in the trees themselves; organic substances in the forest beds and soil. However, Mr. President, this can be achieved far more than this by merely planting the most efficient species of trees, such as the assop or satatgres, which bind up to 23 tons per hectare. They'd only have to, so I'm going to go on plans, would take only 2,000 square miles per country to tie up all of Iceland's emissions, all our emissions. And we have enough desolation and desert spirit to make this possible and, in fact, much more than that. Now that the discussion here is a big deal about climate problems and the carbon debt of Iceland's Icelanders and the expected fines, since we fail to fulfill the commitment between Icelanders in climate matters, it is really surprising, Mr. President, not to go this way, but to reroute our powers into something else and sometimes measures that have little or no effect. Mr. President. Let's talk a little bit about the price of these emissions in context, for example. to the fines that we may have to rely on in short periods of time, i.e. parking payments for not keeping the Kyoto Protocol and do not reduce emissions or bind carbons in accordance with that accounting. Then we'll have to pay our fines. Based on the recent price of each EU emissions disposal system, the price of 25 euros per kilogram was 25 euros per kilogram. In fact, it has increased and decreased. At that time, a 25,000 - square mile [ 25,000 sq km] forest with mixed tree would produce an annual value of $625 million [U.S.], or nearly 100 billion dollars. Mr. President. At the same time, vast forests would stop soil erosion, erosion, and deforestation of soils that have been the most serious environmental environment in the region since the beginning of rural development. Forests in vast areas would change the weather, subtract the effects of wind, bring us a better weather, and thereby provide a more anticipated outdoor environment, and improve human health. In time, a forest would produce many material things, such as wood, wood, and other wood products. Global warming has continued to rise over the past century, and there is no evidence to reduce demand in the predictable future. In this synonym, the goal is not so high, as I mentioned earlier, 25,000 square miles [ 25,000 sq km], that it is intended to bind carbon to more than five Icelandic economys and to reap the benefits of such grand projects. But this, Mr. President, shows what practical things may be. If the target was lower and intended to match only the 4.7 billion carbon dioxide levels that are being released annually by forestry alone, then only the mixed forest would have to be cultivated in less than 5% of the land. Such farming need not threaten agriculture and other land uses if properly organized. The national forestry programme and the current national part of the programme should be able to do so. If only birch forests were to achieve the same objective, 15% of the country's population would have to be enriched. There are future opportunities to achieve significant results in climate and to build a resource for the future benefits of land and nation. Forest development results in many benefits, from improving agricultural conditions to creating a future wood source for future generations. Atmospheric benefits, however, are likely the greatest long - term benefits. Foresting can achieve these and other goals without spending much money. In difficult times, the tendency is to hold hands and try to endure, but in such times we need to look to the future and build up. Few things build people's optimism as much as the planting of trees, camping beings, and close to vegetation and green nature. Let's use a song and blow it to green parishes and grow forests. Mr. President. Therefore, the movers suggest that a minister be assigned to make a plan on this subject and introduce it to the Council for March 1st. I suggest that the situation will go to an environment and transport committee, hoping that it will receive a perennial discussion, as is due to this good proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u133	Mr. President. I want to thank you for your background, huh? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, for an excellent review of this matter, which is of utmost importance and is being put on careful paint and on new research, as it were. A senator quoted. The core of this case is the introduction of the article by the Parliamentary decree. With President's permission, she reads: The development of new forests, fresh forests, is one of the most important and efficient natural actions in the world that has been available to combat climate problems. This is the very essence of the matter. This proposal suggests that environmental and resource ministers will be assigned to work on a strategy that aims to put power in forestry, especially to carbon binding, so that from the year 2025, 12 million trees will be planted each year instead of 3 million, as an authority traced in his speech. The aims of this strategy are four; to increase the carbon binding of forests in Iceland, to promote Iceland's forestry, to 4 times a year for foresting in the next five years, and to create green jobs across the country, both in short term and in the future. Extensive forests, such as planned by this council resolution, would stop soil erosion, erosion, and land erosion, which has been the most serious local environmental problem since land mine. Forests per quarter of the country would change the weather, reduce the impact of wind, bring better weather, and, thereby, more likely, improved human health. In the future, as is attributed to a report, there is an opportunity to achieve significant success in climates and to build up a resource for future benefits for land and nation. The report says that forest growth brings many benefits, ranging from improving agricultural conditions to creating a future resource for future generations in the country. Achieving the benefits, however, is likely the largest long - term benefit: Foresting can be achieved by forestry and others without spending much of the cost. Mr. President. I'm going to allow myself to refer here to answer two questions I've asked in recent years. In particular, I would like to refer to an inquiry to the Environment and Resource Minister on policies and activities in climate change. It's on the roof. 399 to the 150th legislature. It was asked about Iceland's commitment to climate and policy-making in response to the Paris Convention, asking for goals and final goals with defined indicators and criteria. It says in answer to the highest. Minister to Iceland's commitment to this agreement shall be three. First, they defended land use emissions. In that case, measures such as forestry and agriculture are simply required, but do not result in increased emissions of carbon dioxide. This is what I would like to state, Mr. President, to emphasize that this proposal harmonizes very well with the international commitments we have made in this important issue. Mr. President. This case, as good as it is, stands out in certain ways from the highest legal structure. Governments that at times seem to lack a lack of action that has measurable success. Similarly, in taxation, there have been times when the hand has been loosed, as shown by the carbon tax. He has increased only during this ideal period, over the past three years, with what the nation recognizes as a law of power growth, and without realizing that this action has yielded significant results. Mr. President. This case is very good and deserves support here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u134	Mr. President. First, I want to thank a prominent speaker for his talk. I am with the members of the Central Party on this excellent suggestion. The most intimate and efficient way to combat the consequences of rising carbon levels in the atmosphere is forestry and to protect existing forests, to cultivate new and increasing their growth. The vast majority of the carbon taken from the atmosphere by photosynthesis is involved in building tree supported tissue, which accounts for about 40% of the mass of trees. So in the trunks of large trees, there is a carbon reserve that can be bound for decades or centuries. Depending on the wood type, the carbon in it can be bound for a very long time, e.g. In buildings. The second part of the carbon then ends in the soil, and there it can be bound for centuries and millenniums, provided that the earth will not be broken. In general, because biosphere increases from year to year, such as the growing forest, carbon also yields to the soil and the greater the growth. Forest - based carbon binding is definitely a reliable, long - term way to bind carbon from the atmosphere. The role of forests is also well matched with other abundant forestry, so to speak, such as soil protection, outdoors, and timber production. Sadly, the government's contributions to deforestation were greatly cut down, or about half, after the collapse of the economy. While most of the cut - down products have recovered, forest production has been replaced and dwindling with a rising price. In forestry, we see great opportunities for farmers. Hopefully, a carbon project will be used to strengthen the status of farmers and are built in the countryside. Farmers are farmers and have knowledge and equipment needed for these projects. In rural areas, forestry for carbon binding is increasing, allowing carbon projects to enable farmers to continue living that no longer see their traditional farming or to want to reduce their size. So it is important to work in many areas to place increased energy and money in forestry. For the forestry of the country, it is very important to remain strong in the countryside, and workforce is needed, both in agriculture itself and in the future, to shepherd and exploit the forest. And the land will be better off if it is well healed and enjoys the shelter that the trees and forests provide. However, there is concern that the number of growth stations specialized in plant development has decreased. It is vital that they be encouraged again. The role of the government is to ensure that there will be an increase so that in the years to come, there will be an investment in the construction, equipment, and labor of those who know how to do so. It's not enough just to plant trees. There the natural plant needs to grow the plants we then plant. We all know that. In this country, there is limited scope to reduce carbon emissions, since the share of renewable energy is relatively high in this country. Thus, this binding route, the binding of carbons, the Icelanders, has a key role in forestry. It is then necessary to draw more support to the agricultural sector. Unfortunately, this government has not been very interested in agriculture, but it could become one of the main initiatives in the binding of carbon in this country and the role of farmers in meeting Iceland's international commitments could become important. As I mentioned, farmers are farmers. They are in close proximity to the most suitable and suitable breeding and are in need of knowledge and tools. Thus, they can more efficiently bind carbon than most other groups of society. It is proper to keep that in mind and to take advantage of opportunities to do so. While the nation's direct interest in such agrienvironmental role is being made up of enormous interests for farmers. They have many interests. In many lands, agricultural reforms are large or small, one of the reasons that livestock can be considered sustainable. Experience, including Farmers'project helps to heal the land, showing that in case of moderate stress, it is easy to make room for food and other erosions. More agricultural initiatives are provided with increased farming resources and better planning and increasing productions. Farmers in livestock would thus have paid for it. At the same time, it would be improving the size of the countryside, increasing the nation's well - will toward agriculture, and living in favor of future generations that could not produce them, as the growing number of people in the world are becoming increasingly difficult to obtain food for the future and to live in security. There is great potential in carbon binding through forest and sheltering that would also result in direct profit and high value growth in the land. The cost, on the other hand, is greater than our general agriculture, but the economy seems to turn waste into a forest. The ability to make a living is greater in forestry, since it requires more workforce at the cost of each unit. It is largely populated, and we must not forget it. Taxation of the public is not the solution in Iceland's climates. That's our Middle Class opinion. An independent group, greens, and forwards have just gone by and really have proposed taxing the public to work against the so - called climate problem. This is best proved by the fact that this government's carbon tax policy has gained a GPA at the University of Iceland. The report on this is quoted not long ago by the Agency, which has, unfortunately, received far too little attention. It shows the black on white that the amount of carbon paid, e.g. fuel and diesel, over 11 k. ... onthedisillic, and a little more than 10 k. On a quart of gasoline, there is no human success. In addition, the budget that comes in, which is about 6 billion a year, was 3.5 billion when this government began, not new to combat climate warming. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A contribution to Iceland to climate is expected to be large-growing forestry and land transplants. [[The president calls.]] This is the most reasonable and effective way, and this suggestion goes even. ... onit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u135	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for his history in this large and remarkable case of increased woodforestation to carbon binding. He considered the issues, the need to go to this job, and that environmental and resource ministers are assigned to do so. I'm going to grab a little bit here in a very good report that says, with the permission of a president: A non-profit land is ready for breeding, e.g. Treating countries around 650 farmers with forestry across the country and wide, the productive land of land healing. There are various government, rural, and forestry projects, such as land - healing forests and Hiklu forests, and the cooperation of forestry with land healing, as well as the development of new deforestation in Hagnar (The Forest), Hólarians and beyond. All infrastructures are present in order to increase the production of new forests, such as crops, professionals, research experts, and necessary equipment. The cost of growing newforests in the year 2022 absence2032 is estimated at the current cost of 15 billion dollars. Is it just a fraction of the community cost that an Icelandic company might have to pay in one way or another, not being caught at the Paris Convention? This work is even more supportive. V.E.G. President. Fortunately, we have in Iceland enough land space to grow forest. Forestry serves a variety of purposes. Forests play an important role in carbon binding. On the one hand, a building - building forest is useful. They are used as a protective belt that helps other crops to heal, and they work against deforestation and rioting. In the discussion these days, you will find much discussion about carbon binding. I would like to mention what the various types of trees bind. Allow me to quote Edda S. Oddsdóttir, the field manager of the field of research, by permission of the president: ▪ When land is lost or lost into a forest, the rate of carbon binding becomes high. How fast it will be depending on the type of tree being used. Studies have shown that the high rate of rapid - growing ahemosa is more than 20 tons of CO 2 per hectare each year, at best. Barrotypes, e.g. larki, enamel, and sitaholics, bind 73/41 tons of CO 2 per hectare a year, while the volume is smaller in the Icelandic birch, 3.5 tons CO 2 per hectare a year, which grows more slowly. Extensive land is good for forestry. So I wondered, " Are we on the right track for the recovery of wetlands? ' No doubt, some of the busiest land to grow forests could be used. I think it is appropriate to mention here the basic work the Forest has done since the beginning of the last century. Its main fields of research are genetic resources, land information, innovations of forests and shelters, climate division, forests and society, tree and forest brains, management and forestry products and forest ecology. I'd like to tell you that I drive west on Snæfells, where I live. I'm always glad to see a good - looking forest of aspar, cultivated in Braunf on Mimorm. I don't know if it's a forest for treemaking, but it's at least there. Nice belt. I also find it appropriate to mention that deforestation companies in many parts of the country have grown much good - looking forests in volunteer work, as beautiful shapes of the country and islands, and have brought joy to all who come to that work. Indeed, there is a lot of practical work to be done on a volunteer basis, which is a fine price. There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving, says one in a good place. V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna have this any further. I have high hopes that this case will be conducted by the Environment and Transport Committee. Thank you for the 1st transporter, man. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, for bringing this matter into the program here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u136	V.E.G. President. This is probably the greenest issue and one of the most environmental issues involved in the fall council. Therefore, Mr. President, I must admit that I am a little surprised that there are no groups here who spoke in a recent discussion of prime minister's policy, which stood up from one man after another, and a woman: Green Steps, Green Business, Green Future. In fact, one political party recently held a district convention that borrowed two thirds of the head of the party from another political age, and it reminds me that it was: work, well - being, green steps. Here in this discussion, there is no one from that category. I hope, Mr. President, this apathy of those who spoke here of green steps, green futures, and green jobs and all that on the matter of policy -- it was such a typical sticker of sycalypticism - is not a sign that the proposal is not to be taken up, but we middle-classes rather do the talking and therefore we're going to apply this case here, which is one of the biggest environmental issues that will be discussed at the Fall Council. But it's not just an environment, Mr. President. It is also a business because it is making up the land by planting 12 million trees each year for the future, in the first hour, the plant and its management work, but when it takes time to do the work on the gauze, it does not take very many years for the first piece of gauze to take place, especially if it is a fast - growing tree. In time, this kind of plant will become the foundation of industry, the processing of trees, which also create jobs, especially in the country, and now do not produce. This, of course, improves our water supply and the land's vegetation as quickly as possible and this carbon ligand. This will not help when we are faced with the need to pay billions of fines due to emissions. This has been an experiment in the direction of shoveling in a ditch, what is called the recovery of wetlands, which has not been investigated scientificly to bind real carbon. However, the wisdom of doing so has been felt by people who have started in many parts of the country, including the U.S.A. ... tothepresidenthouseofBress. Again, I say: There are no scientific evidences that this usually does something good. Now I'm going to go to the class of guys who call themselves green, left green, who are concerned about exhalation, but who have, for example, a problem. it stands to say that a large foreign ship can burn black oil on its way to Iceland, up to 12 miles, Mr. President. In most parts of the world, this limit is 200 miles [200 km], i.e. The economic record as it goes on and on. No, not here, 12 miles it will be. We're growling hundreds of thousands of tons of garbage per year. We've come forward, Central Party, led by what? paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason, to investigate and consider the practicality of building a real high-tech dump here, which would also be sufficient for energy production if it was for example. in cold areas. When we are affected, as recently as we have to cut down a large pile of money because of a ball, which is a tragic and tragic case, we do not have an incinerator to take the top and burn what is expected. So evil men have decided and agreed to strip any dead body of any sort. A horse has been chasing us in Iceland for decades. People have said, "It's not enough to lay down the trunk, and it's not enough to disinfect all houses because it's even gonna grow up, but we're gonna grow up knowing this or having clues in this direction. ' In fact, this is not the only thing hidden from our eyes but lies in the earth here, for in many lands the source of anthrax is because cattle have been plowed. This whole thing, Mr. President, is an example of how Iceland's environment seems to be missing on minor issues. We don't make plastic bags, but we don't say no to guards. We don't use plastic bags, but we let black oil in this place just up into landstones and well - meaning signs that I forgot to tell you before have been agreed on by people who are going to carry the cost of energy supply so that they can have large ships for electrical connections in the country, because they have not agreed on the basis of who should carry the cost of the necessary irrigation centres. It's natural, Mr. President, below all caves, but we don't have a plastic bag. I sometimes think Iceland and I have environmental policies that as long as we don't see pollution, it's not there. A fine example is that of the decommissioned pollution in Reykjavík. We stumble in bright autumn colds and winter cold days where we see pollution for ourselves, the pollution that is more important because the street system in Reykjavík is poorly organized, and it does not light in concert that men sit in their cars in the queues, and we find very red light in many places where traffic could be very easy. There's no understanding on this, and we'll never notice this except when we see it. Another example is what I brought up earlier, the garbage industry. In many countries, it has become more effective, and it causes waste to drift around and to become a failure. Mr. President. It takes serious action, such as the proposed members of this council resolution, and therefore I sincerely hope that the indifference displayed here by groups other than members of the Central Party is not evidence that this remarkable proposal will not get a course and will not be handled quickly and effectively through the Council Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u137	Mr. President. First, I want to thank them. Councilmen discussing this matter. Many of these appeared interesting and beneficial, which will continue to be useful in measuring the matter and trying to work with it. I know, of course, that foresting has a lot to do with it. However, Iceland and I are a little shy, thinking that Iceland will be in a moment, as we see in many European countries and that we will lose our view. There's a lot to talk about. But that's not what we're talking about. We're not talking about the land being covered with some jungle. For e.g. The carbon binding must be realized that we need only about 2% of the land's powerful trees to bind all our carbon dioxide emissions. That's not much. The deserts of Southland are such as The greater part of the land and desolation is in many parts of the earth, so that the land is not to be spoken of as being grown up all the trees, by no means. It's really very small. We owe the land. Here at the land mine, Iceland was growing from a mountain to a beach, as famous from the Book of Iceland. Now there is only a 1762% of the land covered with forest, most of which are bushed and small, so we owe it to the land. We've lost a lot of soil, a lot of vegetation. We need to tie it up and make it up. We need to regain our land quality. Of course, the best way to do this is to grow forests and land transplants. In today's world where mankind is fighting the climate crisis, it is obvious that the right way to pay back our debt is the bond of carbon and the easiest and easiest way to do so is forestry. Besides that, she has many other advantages, advantages such as the art of timber; wood for cooking, wood for building, and shelter for the people, and livestock, an increase in animal life, and so on, as I discussed in my first speech. Everything's working. I don't really understand why Iceland and I aren't much of the way around this way much sooner. We've experimented. We've followed this path slowly. Not many decades ago, we just didn't believe that this place could grow forests. I was not old when some tall trees amazed me. Now it's quite common. I think Icelanders should realize that there are perfect conditions here to cultivate powerful forests that can be used, not just as ornaments, but as crops. Of course, if it were to be built up, there would be a new way of work all over the country. A report in the week in the News magazine reported that Iceland was not able to live up to its commitments under the Kyoto Protocol during the period that will be over next year. The report also stated that, according to the EEA's opinion, emissions sources equal to 4 million tons of carbon dioxide are now being purchased. It was found that the cost would be unclear but that it was running for billions of dollars. Later in the story, we have a plan that may cost us 16 billion, Mr. President, in view of our current prices. But likely there will be a rise, and the price will be higher, and then it will cost more. It's like on stock markets, they never know when to jump on the wagon. But it's a lot of money, and we can't afford it. Of course, we are to put energy into things like forestry to prevent this from happening in the future. We owe the land. Today, this government has been here for three years. The truth is, Mr. President, there has been no significant increase in forestry in the history of this government. The increase is mainly in planting a beam that binds only a fraction of what more efficient species of trees do, perhaps six to eight times less than the species we have learned from and knowledge in this country, eight times less than the best of the species. If you look at results, it's small. Men are not performing, either of previous governments, as is the case at the highest level. In this same report, the environmental minister said, or the current government. The actions are not powerful enough. This suggestion highlights a number of factors to reverse this trend, to turn around, and to walk this way, where we will eventually fulfill our commitments. We're supposed to do it fast. We're to begin with a very powerful operation immediately. The opportunities are here, and they're lying right in front of us. We are a little bit, Mr. President, pointing our eyes in the wrong direction, sometimes in the wrong direction. We've managed the budget a little bit to build up the booth on these issues, i.e. The environment. It has grown, but forestry has not increased since collapse when it reached the highest height. It has grown much more than that. We need to look for ways to spend the money. The attention and support have often taken little action, should we not say so, or unproved action on the environment and the climate, sometimes in reverse as to the expected results? The result is little, in view of the energy, the funds, and the attention laid upon it. I took one example, I can take more. I took an example of the bear. A bear is a beautiful tree, and we love our farm, which is a local tree, and probably a mountaindrake too. But if you're going to bind carbon and keep up with Iceland's climate commitment, that's not the right kind to put it into. Of course, this may be true, but it is not the right type of tree to fulfill our commitment. For that we have, and have experience with this country, much better solutions and better tree species like assp and dumps. They can be planted in many of our forested land. Though the forest has grown far beyond our expectations, we are just beginning to do what we can. Since forest grows well in most parts of the country, the opportunities are sufficient and they are everywhere. One day, people's eyes will open to this, and they will go to this with a real force, just as I'm suggesting in this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u138	Mr. President. I recommend a synonym to the payment of Icelandic sports achievements. Aside from what we've got here, we've got a group of members of the United States. Councilmen Friðbjörg Frinífjörgof Elíasdóttir, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Guðmundur and Andri Thorsson, Logi Einarsson, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. The interpretation proposal reads: The General concluded to hide a minister of education and culture in agreement with the secretary of finance and economics to provide a bill for the payment of a remuneration for athletes in individual and team sports. The purpose of the fund must increase the financial security of athletes and increase their prospects of pursuing its sport. The minister gives the bill no later than the Council of 152th. This arrangement was previously submitted to the last assembly but could not be fulfilled. The proposal suggests that the Minister of Education and Culture will be assigned in consultation with the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs to prepare and submit a bill on the Icelandic Sports Prize. The purpose of this country is to create an economic groundwork for the practice of its sport. A master of chess and artist's remuneration may be looked forward to paying the employer's pay for certain conditions. Paying a job's achievements increases its rights and safety. It is important that during the preparation and implementation of the labour fund of athletes, they work closely with the Iceland and the Olympian Union. Mr. President. The success of our athletes has brought attention to the world over. We have athletes in a number of sports programs that have increased Iceland's husk during the Olympic Games, world championships, and European conventions. Transporters believe that it is time for the government to be more supportive of the Icelandic athletes, the role models of the country's youth in individual and team sports. In Iceland, very successful athletes announced their elections less than a year ago, or in December 2019. According to the declaration, after the sports career, many Icelandic athletes survive with debt on their backs and in every respect their rights. Abductive athletes don't have the pension rights, not the trade union union union, not unemployment rights, not the access to medical and staff funds or rights to maternity, to name something. The 2017 work group report on a review of the rules of the improvement fund of ISI contains, for example. discussed the importance of developing athletes'ability to concentrate on exercise and competition while enjoying minimum income as a result of extensions and needed expenses. It says: ▪ A direct scholarship is needed for athletes in the form of monthly productions, as the athlete has the full right to make the money. These words from the report show that because of participation in international conventions and not the forwarding of the exercise period, the preparatory period has frequently been used for our foreign representatives. Extensive athletes have the option of applying for grants from the ISO's achievement fund, while the main role of the fund for building achievements in Iceland is to strengthen specific relationships financially and, by means of the Icelandic athlete's achievement, to achieve success in the international contest. These sponsors are thus the only public support that can be used to finance competitive and exercise outings, but the money there is little left, if anything, when the cost has been paid directly. Thus, our successful athletes, who represent us, often pay with them on their journeys. These strengths are not defined as pay. Thus, as well as the sums of fortified athletes put in a difficult position, and not more often, they have paid jobs to do along with practice so as to finance themselves while rivals in foreign lands can completely dedicate themselves to their sports. This does not mean that Icelandic athletes are equal to those who are the world's major rivals. When this talk is given, e.g. The Icelandic women's team for basketball in Greece before the European tournament in that sport. Now four teams are competing, and I've got confirmation that there is no inside, not one player who gets paid for his sport. All players need to deal with their employer to allow for the time it takes to go outside, participate in the convention, be pre-infested by Covid, and are at risk of contracting three of the four joints containing infected players, and return to their homes, and go into an environment. All of this requires that these successful athletes who are competing at this point in the A country to pay off their own pockets and take out their vacation rights to participate in Iceland's behalf on foreign suspicions. At the granting of the Council's resolution of the 150th legislature, there were reviews of sports relationships, all of which were very positive. The importance of this has increased since the start of the Korean virus epidemic. In addition, at the end of the last council, the general campaign encouraged athletes to get the proposal done, but unfortunately there was no opportunity for many of the issues directly related to Covid. All large conventions have been postponed, so the position of athletes who were currently in preparation for major events would be even worse than before, where a year was added without income for preparation. It was also noted that many athletes had already found it difficult to finance the past few years since the last major events. At the same time, the number of enterprises are reduced because of the economic situation following the crowning virus epidemic. Mr. President. High - quality athletes have repeatedly pointed out that it is difficult to compete on a global scale without pay and rights. The proposal is to respond to that position and to support the successful athletes to meet their rival rivals in foreign lands. The models exist. We have an artist's job. We have the job of chess people, so we should now agree to this synonym and hide the highest force. The Minister of Education and Culture to initiate the preparation for the bill for the payment of a fund for successful athletes. To this end, I suggest that this proposal go to sleep. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u139	A respectable president. I'm moving here a case that I think I've moved twice before now in a slightly different picture. This is a bill for the restoration of private treatment laws and support support for the cost of judicial decisions. Initially, we proposed this case in a way that we would place a special obligation to support judicial decisions on matters that protected expression, injury, and such. This was to deal with the fact that money - rich persons often have the tendency to sue the media, even knowing that they will lose the case, knowing that they have no right to attend, but they delay the mass media, cost him, and take money from him. It has been observed and is an example of this that although a medium or a person who has expressed himself won the case, language has been considered legitimate, the person has been given his own due expenses. Of course, there is a bad situation that when people are accused of expressing themselves, they still bear considerable costs of being reported for expressing themselves. This has a cool effect on the freedom of expression in the country, a respectable president, if those affected by this condition are to be expected to carry a considerable amount of cost, even if they win the case, legal expenses, and so on. There are many examples of judicial decisions in which the bound won the case in all its subjects, but it was still given all the expenses of the sentence. The most familiar example, perhaps what people know best about these matters is Egl Egill Einar Einarsson, or Egill Gillz, against Ingi Sigurmarsson. As is known, a picture of a plaintiff and a text was published where he was called a rapist. The picture and the subject were called uninterrupted on the basis of the fact that this had meant "abundance. " The expenses of the case were dropped on both counts, although the others were headed to win the case. I think he was up to about 3 million. So although the expression was accepted as a legitimate expression, it was a very expensive expression, and it could be said, of course, that it involved capital punishment, paying so much expenses, having to spend so much time in court, etc. Initially, this bill was submitted to respond to this position. This happens repeatedly. We have many cases in which this person has committed an injury, but he has still had to pay for it in an expensive way. Of course, that is not good. I'm going to let myself kill a little bit of a paper with the bill, a respectable president. I'll take this case back, and I'd like to explain to you the changes in approach that we now have in our case. It involves suggesting that, instead of the obligation of the courts to provide logical support for judicial decisions, i.e. Only when it comes to expression, it applies simply to all judicial matters. That judges need to provide logical support for judicial decisions. We suggest that we do so in an equal way. There may be other cases in which this may be of great importance. We do this on the basis of the fact that the basic principles and principal rights of the state of justice apply in Iceland, as in other lands, that individuals have the right to support the decision of the courts. Of course, the general rule is that the person who loses justice in all the basics should have the cost of the other person who worked the case in all the basics. The objective of this bill is to ensure that logical support follows judges' decisions on the cost of the case, in order to form the principle that the loser should pay a court order. So far, and that's the problem we're trying to solve with this bill, have not usually followed such decisions, and it has been difficult to grasp the fundamental factors. There are already some legal requirements for personal handling. The cost of the case has been expressed as a sort of damage to the person responsible for the case, but the thought behind the rules that another person pays the other person's expenses is to turn over the person who works harmlessly on his case. According to the 130th degree. the handling of private matters can be decided by the judge that another party should pay the other person's due expenses, that one person pays part of the other's expenses, or that the cost of a court will be dropped, each person's own expenses should be paid. But as I told you earlier, the principle is that the person who loses a lot of money in all major cases is usually sentenced to pay his medical bills. However, in recent years it has been common for one person to suffer the cost of a certain group of lawsuits, even though the other person is seriously losing the case. These include when individuals address insurance companies and the Icelandic State and other governments. The same may be true when there is some serious question about the matter, even though the decision may have been in the favor of another person. It is also common for judges to separate from the principle of discrimination in cases where one party is heading for offenses against 234.35, 235., or 236. a general penal law, or a non-signed recommendation according to 241. g. Same song. Interestingly, in such cases, the cost of the matter is more likely to be dropped. This is especially true in the case of a plaintiff's claims. That's a problem, a respectable president. That's the problem we're trying to solve with this bill. In 1st. 114. g. the handling of private matters is listed under the terms of the court's decision when removing the subject on the court's side. According to the "f" section of the paragraph, the logical conclusion should be identified on evidence and on the matter of law. The h-dium of the same paragraph says that on grounds the terms should be analysed, however, it is not specifically decided that the cost of excusing should be reasoned. The decisions made by a judge on the cost of judicial costs are either small or unconvinced, even if there may be considerable financial rights for a painter. In this way, the cost of the person who won the case can be reduced to millions of dollars. Because of the short support for judicial decisions, the evidence that accounts for the cost of the matter simply do not appear. That rights and lawsuits are public is a principle in civil rights. To make the part of a judicial hearing that has to do with the cost of substantial and more thorough support for that principle. It is also our assessment that this is in harmony with the 70th requirement. The constitution and regulations of Article 6. The European Convention on the Rights of the Righteous and Official Treatments That the basis and logical support of judgments is available is an essential part of the rightfulness of 1. Section 6. A covenant is given. I say at the end of the report, with permission of the president: It's a little bit like the bill. to get rational support in situations where the cost of the matter is more likely to be dropped, e.g. the decision on the cost of judicial matters will be far more critical than before, and the possibility of a review of the higher level of judgment will be adjusted. In such cases, the cost of the matter is more likely to be dropped. We suggest that when a case cannot be canceled or dismissed from the court or ended, or that it should be written, it should be reported on the basis of a reasoned decision on the cost of judicial matters. A respectable president. The final words of the bill's report are to agree to promote greater security, greater transparency, and better identification of current legal practices, justice, and the rightness of expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u140	V.E.G. President. I'm here talking about the pieces we don't want to know about, and of course I didn't want them to exist. I'm talking about pieces dealing with child abuse. I recommend a bill for a change in the general penalties of sexual abuse. The subject of the bill is increasing the spread of child abuse on the Internet, and the scope of the issues involved in police, prosecution, and courts and the objective of the bill is that we respond. That reality simply calls for adjustment and is being suggested in this bill. As technological evolution is positive, it is at the same time a fact, and in itself nothing is new, that in technological development there is, of course, a dark side as well. Along with the development of technology, child abuse has become much easier than before. It is much easier to disseminate all such materials. These are photographs, movies, videos, or other material that depict children and young people sexually and sexually immoral. Sadly, these fragments are more extensive, organized, and even more gross in some cases than before. The production and distribution of pediatric waste material are in certain cases directly part of organized crime activity. This is industrialized by a high - paying means of sexual violations against children in order to produce the material. Sadly, this trend is international, and Iceland is not the exception. International police cooperation is of utmost importance in this area and has led governments to cross-border work and to treat cases that are larger in scope than before. That's the situation right now. Police are, as we have seen in the news lately, with several very large cases to treat, dozens of people have a legal rights for having material of this kind, child abuse, in their possession. Of course, this bill does not affect the already researched issues of the police, so that they say and reprove so that there is no misunderstanding, for our legislation is never repetitive. But the situation, the case, and the coverage we have seen in the news recently underscores the need. Although the bill was already being built when these news reports came up, I view it as a consideration of the big issues the Iceland police have for today simply telling us what the situation of this series is. The situation requires that this law of penalties, which deals with child abuse, specify what the penalty is in their case, be updated so that it can accomplish its purpose. As we examine judgments on the basis of the law on these violations, 210 gr. a general penalties, we see that when the case has been grossly broken, the defendants have had tens of thousands of photographs in their possession, tens of thousands of images in their computer, or on the phone, or both, of children and young people shown in a sexual way. In some cases, that is usually true when a person is taken with this large amount of material, it is very young children and material in some cases, and more often than we would like, showing a very gross sexual offense against these young children. The punishment of child abuse has not always been consistent with the severity of the fractures. However, I would like to make a decision and emphasize it in particular with regard to the larger penalty frames proposed here, that the reason for this bill being submitted is primarily because this category is about to change, and has changed in recent years. The main reason is not that this is a strong criticism of the courts. Of course, in the reality of the courts, with a penal line that is up to two years, a maximum of two years of punishment for so - called gross offenses, the punishments will never be able to reflect the seriousness of the errors. I also refer to the traditions we know in the Icelandic courts, to punishment in Iceland, and this refers to sexual offenses like other offenses, usually determined in the lower bounds of the penalty. However, the change suggested here is that there will be an increase in the number of penalties for the dramatic violations of this law, from two years up to six years, from a two - year - old peak to a six - year - old peak. Such a penalty is simply more strongly wrapped in large - scale cases, cases larger today than they were some years ago, larger because they have high levels of child abuse, more than ever, because the material is more accessible to technology than before. An enormous amount of material, much of a gross child abuse material, can easily be drawn up. I'm going to protect the Assembly Hall from discussing what you can see in such pictures and videos, but that's what I know from a previous job. In this regard, I also feel that it is important to talk about it and say it just as it is, that when we talk about child abuse, photos, videos, movies, movies, whatever it is, you can't look at such material as it's happened in a void. First, of course, in order to produce the material, a child needs to be violated. Second, such material can only be produced because there is a demand for it. However, with the change, we would have a penal frame that would be in places similar to those in the North countries. It is important to me that we are not left behind in this matter. That's where I am, for example. thinking of police cooperation in these matters. In the processing of the bill, I examined in particular the development of legislatures in this respect in the North countries. As a result of this change, our line of punishment is on the pair of other northern legislation. They're not known for being fanatics of criminal law. All of these are countries where the criminal bitch is moderately adjusted. However, it is normal for legislation to be similar in terms of severity, and punishment, of course, always reflects the severity of the Lawgiver. However, it is also natural that this law in the sex - crime phase does not remain as much as any other law of sexual immorality. This change makes me feel that there is a better match for punishment in the sex - crime phase itself. If anyone is concerned about this point, I will note that a six - year - old criminal peak in itself is a balanced frame. We would not have this change disappearing from our previous course, which is generally under punitive, to my mind. With a six - year criminal peak, we are brought near to see that when big cases, larger cases, come to justice over time, what if we get, for example? There is also a large issue that will contribute to the production or extensive distribution, and then we have the box to respond to. I don't expect this change to automatically lead to the punishment of minor offenses, if it can be said in this way, it will automatically be gained by this, but that here we are coming to grips with the larger things; for it is specifically specified in the provisional arrangement, that is, in the order of today, and that it will continue in this approach, that this will be the climax of the so - called major offense. But the central issue of this matter and the heart of the case, so to speak, is that we want to be willing to increase the protection of children, for, yes, there are children on these videocassettes. And I tell you again, a child has to be sexually violated to create this material. Those who sit and watch this material and have it in their possession create a demand for such a chemical to exist. With this change, we will bring better tools to the police, the prosecutors, and the courts to deal with these issues. I believe we are sending an important punitive message about how we view child abuse. Children's interests need to be protected from such violations, and I view this step as the result. Only about what evolution has been like. I'd like to discuss only what the reality of this crime is today. I mention, as an example, a special chat area available on the Internet, in the so - called Šdark Jacobs, which, unfortunately, have made communication easier for people who are looking for and sharing such material. This interaction facilitates the availability of pedophilic substances. Sadly, in these areas, people have not only been sharing this material with others but, in the most gross of cases, they have plotted that a child will be broken in a certain way to look at it in the time of child abuse, and the footage of that sexual transgression against a child will be followed by high exposure on the Internet. It should be noted that the child's violation in that position is two: on the one hand, this child becomes sexually violent and, on the other hand, is again broken against the child when a video showing a fracture becomes available to other wrongdoers online. And we know, in the past, that children in sensitive circumstances are most at risk of such offenses, children in certain countries, and children from certain areas where the industry thrives. But the other is so different that, of course, this can also happen when the offense is broken, for example. against the child in his home and the person who violates the child takes it up on the phone and then scatters it or just keeps it on his phone. I'd also like to name the general use of smartphones as another factor and as a change. Of course, these are not the changes that have occurred in the past few months, but this is a different reality than it was some years ago. Those who sexually violate a child will find it easier to take photographs or videos from the broken section, since the phone is always on hand. Sadly, the sad reality of sexual abuse on the part of a child is similar, e.g. ... inmyhome. In this way, bacteria are sometimes producing their own entertainment, allowing it to spread images and videos. But only to the individual subject of the bill. The core of the bill and the center of the bill is the change in the line of punishment. But there's also other things underneath, such as in a-team 1. the bill, to add the word '-official' to the 1st paragraph 1. 210th article. According to current expression of the law, obtaining or other forms of child abuse is punishable. In the expression 2 mgr. 210. g. it is specifically stated that there is another way to disseminate, but now we are suggesting that the word'- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '--' to add 1 mg.' The reason for this change is that increasing exposure to pediatric matter is especially so that such materials are distributed to a large number of people instead of sharing such material by two and three persons, that humans are actually publishing material in large chat areas where many people are involved, so that the distribution involves an undisclosed number of people. In view of this, it is considered a reason to specifically specify this word, ◯ distribution, although the practice of acquiring other abuses is already punishable. I believe that such a change is designed to strengthen the criminal protection and to sharpen the law further in this respect, and it clearly responds to the new manifestations of these offenses. So here, therefore, words may primarily be sharpening in this regard. Another change is a so - called subsidiary principle of 2k. The bill, which says is a man convicted of violations against 210. gr. a or b may, according to local regulations, increase punishment up to half of it if repeatedly broken, to observe the 71. g. Penalties. This law serves to take it upon the defendants, who are then a second time, or more often judged for these serious offenses. Here we are simply suggesting a corrective view when dealing with the habitual offenders in this field. There is another point and a conversation I would like to have here at the council Hall and to see the government introduce a plan, which is a treatment for the recipients of this category, a treatment available to the people, both after they have been judged and from time to time, but also from time to time. I think it's important to do it and to do it at the same time. But that's what I'm saying, I don't think there's any land at least. None of the people we would like to compare ourselves with would do that in the event of a major offense against these measures, to treat them solely. It's the tools we want to use at the same time. In this regard, I find it interesting to myself to see if we cannot offer more treatments for men who have completed a sentence, such treatments available longer than during a sentence. But back to the penitentiary. That change and the arrangement, making it clear how the Lawgiver's attitude is. The Lawgiver's view is that individuals who look at child abuse material that has it in their possession, who obtain and find it or acquire it, play an important role in the production of pedophiles. It simply cannot be overlooked. This is not a fraction that we can accept as an unsatisfactory offense, for without people seeking this material, they would not be produced. Child abuse only results from the demand for this violence against children and young people. It is also important to bear in mind, as I mentioned earlier, and I feel that it is the core point of this, that when a child's abuse is made, a fraction is committed against that child or the children who are then seen in these photos or videos, and therefore it is not possible to agree that the consumers of this material are completely excluded from that reality. Their responsibility is great. A person's responsibility as a child abuser is great, and although the legislator does not view the product by himself as a product, these fractions are an impregnate part of the fractions committed against the children at the time of manufacture. By raising the level of punishment for large - scale violations against the law, the goal is to scare men away from these offenses and thus increase the child's protection from them. Of course, it is always that the Lawgiver's attitude toward the seriousness of certain fragments is reflected in the penalty frame of the law. It's also such a criminal bitch that I think it's time for me to go to a Senate hall. Of course, this is reality. Then there is another issue in the way this frame is applied, the extent to which individual species are used. It does not in itself belong to the group of fractures other than to the 211st degree. a general penal law, for murder, where it has been done, to go to the top limit at all times. Otherwise, we have been judging rather on the lower edge of the line. Another additional reason for this increase is that by sending a clear and clear signal that this is a six - year prison defense, when it comes to large - scale laws, police will be encouraged to put further initiatives in this field, taking initiative to look up these matters online, and to follow the developments that have become available in northern legislation, and in particular in the report. The countries around us were examined. Not all laws of the law are so worded or built up, but they are identical in content and control. Mr. President. The bill also presents a report on specific legal requirements that should be considered in terms of the severity of the offense, a point to be considered by the courts in the decision of these matters. There was a way of considering the same points, or at least Similar factors, as well as basics, are provided in Danish legislation and Swedish legislation. This view, of which courts should be considered in the decision of the court, has been missing in this law, and I believe that there is here an excellent tool box in the courts to consider why food should be viewed in this respect. It is obvious, and has been done in cases that have fallen, that are first looked at the magnitude, the amount of material, the number of images, films, photographs, images, films, etc. The substance is viewed as gross. The nature and severity of the fractures committed to children are seen during the manufacture of the product. And it is suggested that the consequences of these fractures be considered to be the result in the situation where available or the classical assessment that a child who experiences a certain experience might have evidence or be likely to experience spiritual sequelae. Other factors are the age of children who are violated in the production of the material, whether their lives and health have been threatened. There is also a view of how painful, hurtful, or demeaning things were and should also be viewed as ostracism in the event of a planned fracture, i.e. joint in planned fracture activity. Here are some things to look at, in view of the ways that have taken place in Danish and Swedish penalties. However, it is also said and discussed in the bill that, of course, it is that this is always a complete meal. Of course, the decision of punishment is of course, so, on the other hand, there are incidents in the matter of self - abuse, but on the other hand, as well as the viewpoints of the defendants, his interests, and his past careers, conduct after the offenses, and so on. Mr. President. I've studied the key points in this bill. In itself, it is a simple bill. Two changes in subject to the penalty are provided, and an adjustment of the wording of the law is proposed in a clearer way to cover the new manifestations of these fragments. I'm gonna let myself tell you that I'm proud of this bill. This is my first bill, and I'm happy to acknowledge that the idea of this matter has come and comes from my experience of working in the prosecution and the prosecution of sexual crime. I've long been thinking about the penalty frames and the criminal messages in our current legislation. As I said at the outset, it's about reality and violations that we don't want to know about. Of course, we do not want such offenses to occur, to be felt, or to exist. However, there is another reality. It is my sincere hope that this case will be treated here within the council that it may become legal during this council. I believe, on the other hand, that this in itself is not a complex change, but it has given me reason to believe that when I set out to search for importers, I received a very positive response from members of all political parties. The Parliamentary Conference is united in this case, but all party members come from all categories here at the council. This makes me optimistic, and I'm going to believe that this bill, which I think, is an important material and criminal transformation, will be here at the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u141	Mr. President. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in income tax laws, No. 90/2003. With me, the carriers of this bill are cool. Councilmen of Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Jón Gunnarsson's son, Vilhjálmur the Arnazon, Bragumur the Árnason of Níelsson, and Páll Magnússon. This is the second time the bill is submitted. It appeared first during the last session, which allows individuals to be authorized, with certain restrictions, to reduce income tax pay on registered stocks and stock certificates, which are registered to an orderly stock market or invest only in registered stocks. The bill is based on an absolute 30th degree. track No. 75/1981, on income taxation, which was removed from the law in 2002. When the law was given at its time, it was based on possession of the stocks for three years, which is the basis for which contributions have been submitted to the price of 2020. However, with this bill it is reserved for investment in the stock market or the market market market for financial gains, i.e. registered stock. The older law expected that the stocks could be purchased in unemployed stocks to meet certain conditions, but a government tax manager had to confirm that the stocks were under those conditions. By suggesting that only investors be allowed in the registered stocks, the procedure at the tax rate is simplified as well as that of the public having legal investment protection through purchases of registered stocks. Transporters, however, feel that the warrant should be extended over the coming years, as it is stated. As the report shows, there are a wide range of regulations that apply to business through registered stock, and I think that it is best to refer to the report in another way. Of course, these rules focus primarily on investing and ensuring legal information, etc., so that they can make their decisions in an informed way when doing business with registered shares. The stock market is an important source of capital and enables companies to obtain additional funds in the form of new stocks. The market also provides registered partners with much information that, in turn, leads to improved discipline, problems with governance, transparency, credibility, and, in particular, efficiency. History shows that an efficient stock market is inexplicable from the high economy and the economic growth of developed nations. A strong market where companies have access to capitals that can be used for investments and growth will benefit the entire nation. The tax price for stock markets, either in funds or in single stocks, encourages an increase in savings on the part of households, as well as a greater depth on the market by increasing the subject's interest rates and their financial resources. Such growth can contribute to business development by increasing sellability and thereby reducing market fluttering as well as increasing the availability of enterprises for financing. The tax discount encourages the home to participate in employment, mixing their interests with their job life, which can lead to greater awareness of the public's position of the economy and the consequences of changing the company's management environment, e.g. changes in tax or general pay development may result. Added to this, the discount also encourages home use of available savings, taking into account risks and yields, and taking advantage of the possibility of further risk distribution. At the end of 2018, only 7.6% of total property was in the domestic stock market and has not been less determined since the start of measurements. In 2007, the ratio went to over 14% but fell to 8.6% at the 2008 financial collapse and has not really recovered since then. The labour market of households is not only small in historical comparison but also in Norwegian comparison, as shown in the photo provided with this bill's report. The direct contribution of individuals to the market value of registered stocks in Iceland is now only about 4◯5% compared to 11◯17% during 2002-2007. The small, direct participation in the public is a concern not only in the interests of individuals but also in the interests of Icelandic employment. It does not take place in the same place that individuals indirectly invest in stocks through a pension fund and, on a limited scale, a stock fund. The financing opportunities of Icelandic enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are no doubt inferior to the public's saving processes for more economic investments. Pension funds prefer mainly to invest in larger companies. Because of the scope of market pension funds and relatively small involvement in other investors, companies less than 10 billion can. that market prices are difficult to pick up in the Icelandic stock market. The experience abroad shows that an enterprise of this magnitude, below 10 billion, may be able to meet the market demand and benefit greatly from registration if they live under the right conditions. So to form some 70% of the unions on First North market of Nasdaq in the Northern Country of less than 5 billion K. the market value and 87% less than 10 billion K. There has been a small number of investment participations in the First North Market. Small participation in the Icelandic stock market puts a risk on Icelandic enterprises to consider their best interest outside the landstones, especially smaller growth companies, which have less interest in the largest investors in the Icelandic market. Mr. President. I want to finally repeat: We are at a critical milestone when it comes to the restoration of Icelandic employment. We are to open up the opportunity for the Icelandic public to have a direct share in this restoration because it will matter to all of us how we will achieve a living standard in the coming years and decades. However, we should also bear in mind that by improving individual and household possibilities to take a direct part in the restoration process in terms of tax reformation, as suggested here, there is a chance that there will be a growth company, sceptre companies, innovation companies, which can include stock market registrations, they will be able to take on the business risks. We will all enjoy it together. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill go to the Economic and Business Committee and 2rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u142	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of land flood prevention. In fact, nature, as we call it, is not allowed to be mocked, as is the recent earthquake. There is a need for caution. The fictitious proposal is about flood prevention because of the dangers of floodwaters, let's say, there's quite a lot in Iceland. It is a flood of volcanic eruptions, with cold - eyed glaciers, and with water - especially at sea - that is common when such things happen with storms and low - pressure pressures and so on. I will not deal with the flood of water in this synoptic decree but with the geographic. Transporters with me are Ásmundur Friðriksson, Karl Hjaltason undny Harðardóttir Hardydurdótttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gurnardóttir. This is how the interpretation motion reads, with president's permission: The Council concludes to hide the Environment and Resource Minister in order to appoint a group of workers to solve the following national flood prevention projects in cooperation with the State's land performance: 1st The assessment of water quality at the national major level and the major water spills that could be harmful. 2. Analysing the situation and importance of the flood prevention initiatives waiting for land healing, both the position of tasks in the private sector and of projects that must be carried out by partners, recruitment, road generation, or land healing. 3. Prioritive tasks in relation to the urgency and risk assessment of the Weather Service. 4. Suggested measures, in maintenance and development, as well as in the cost assessment of each project. The task force completes work and gives a report by the end of June 2021. The Minister introduces the results of the task force no later than at the beginning of the 152th legislation. This makes the suggestion. The report suggests that the proposal is presented for the third time because both the 149 and the 150th legislatures were presented but were not supplied. Land transplants are designed to assess the need for preventive measures to reduce or prevent land breakdown, i.e. soil erosion and erosion, etc. These measures are used in various ways to store and protect parks. I'm not going to get into that. It is the nature of some of these rivers or rivers to flow through their channel, its glacier is a well - known example, and the drag rivers do so too, so these rivers need to be controlled as much as possible. Land transplants work with the Road project for protection against the breakdown of vegetation and for the protection of transport, such as road and bridges, and can divide institutions. I would like to mention, for example, that at the Sea of Eyjafjafjafjafjafjafi there are 40 dikes that last 40 miles [40 km] continuously. So it is obvious that controlling a river of glacier is a significant matter. The road often handles engineering preparations, especially if the work is large, but land healing is also permitted to support construction projects intended to protect private buildings or land. The maximum intensity of the previous few years has been about 3 million; such applications have been made each year between 40 and 60. It has been impossible to obtain only part of the requests received each year for various operations. Of course, priorities, assessments, crops, possible damages, crops, and other plants are always trying to get priority on the order of tasks. Among the largest and most important projects are maintenance and improvement in flood prevention of the Waters of Mark, the Shire, the Skaftá, the Lakes of the Lakes, and the rivers of Merem Desert, as well as in the Hornfjord, Jacká, and Jacki, in Lon. It is important to remind you that when an estimate of the importance of a flood - control project, the risk estimate for a floodwaters being done in Iceland's Weather Service is often taken into consideration. During the past 10 years, land mines resulting from falling water have remained unchanged around 70,80 million a year, with a considerable increase in cost. In 2010, about 45 projects were assigned, while 2017 was assigned to the 18. The project was 17 of 2018, but only 10 in 2019 C.E. There's an explanation I'm not going to trace here. Thus a waiting list of dozens of tasks has been created and can be shortened. I'm not going to go down to a lot of numbers, but I just want to remind you that a glacier can easily reach its 10- or twenty-twenty flow, and a glacier can become enormously large, 50,000,200,000 cubic feet per second or fifteen- to 70-fold the flow of Alpha wounds. It can also be taken into account that large fire stations give evidence of building up to them; Cata, Bear, Microchill, The Gulf of Grima. There have also been new circumstances that might be associated with the decrease in permafrost, i.e. When you are about to travel to the mountains, you are thawing, and just as glaciers are shortening and thinning. The conditions for swine fever include e.g. so that there is danger of a massive rock race, a collapse, down to the cold of Pigs, and then to the lay that has formed in front of him. This could result in a large quantity of glacier or water running, which, of course, needs to be examined for some possible protection. There is also good news that there has been an additional garden built on the east side of the Vikings, between the Vikings and the Cape River, in order to increase the likelihood that a glacier caused by a volcanic eruption in Catpaga will not cause serious damage to the merchant itself. There are several areas in the country that are in special danger of flooding large rivers and that have their existence to some extent under the defensive conditions of a raid. These include the islands, Eelphever, the Vikings, as mentioned by my name, a country along the White River in Aarnesi County and the Gudven region. It's all built in glaciers. Then, based on drag rivers such as the Big Lax, we need flood prevention. Climate change in the past few years and experience with rapid water growth due to increased short-term rains cause concern in addition to the lack of stocks for maintenance and renewal of flood defences throughout the country, for at least A decade or more. Mr. President. Simply put, defenses against nature are a very important community element in Iceland because of what nature is like. That's why we make this council resolution and hope that it will reach all the way to it. The environment and transport authorities will be provided with a continuing course. I have thus completed the presentation of this proposal for the resolution of flood prevention on land.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u143	A respectable president. I hereby present my synopsis proposal to revise the legal environment for minor inducers. This council proposal has been reassigned from the last council. My importers are down. The members of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdotttir, and Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir. The suggestion reads: The Council concluded to hide the Environment and Resource Ministers and travel, industrial and innovation Ministers to review the laws and regulations relevant for the permission of ministries by aimed at simplifying the application procedure associated with them. A review will be completed and a plan of action will be presented to the Council no later than at the end of 2021.◯ According to one report, this arrangement was submitted to the 150th legislature and is now almost unchanged. The proposal suggests that the Allied Council hides the Environment and Resource Minister and travel, industrial and innovation Ministers to review the laws and regulations relevant for the permission of micro-organization forces with the aim of simplifying the regularity and application procedure. Thus, the proposal is in line with a government contract that states that effort will be made in a simple rule for the sake of employment and the public. Miniatures, i.e. Intensifications based on electrical forces of 200 kW to 10 MW are reported to the Organization under the regulations for environmental assessment. In view of the assessment carried out in Annex 1, the Act to be divided into categories A, B, and C. The activities described in Class A should always be subject to environmental assessment, according to Article 5. The law. However, according to Article 1. Section 6. The law of the law, carried out in Class B and Class C in the above 1. Microscopics can join Class B, i.e. installed electrons of 0.23/410 MW, or Class C, below 0.2 MW. The Agency shall decide whether the activations of Class B should depend fully on the environmental impact and the acting agents should therefore be submitted a report on the proposed implementation to the Agency, which will determine this. Group C systems are listed as being within the same unit. Class C activities may have considerable environmental impact and therefore should be assessed on a case by case basis for environmental impact evaluation. Annex 2 to the Act on Environmental Impact Assessment (EOS) stipulations presented in Article 2 as definitions in Annex 1. The effect of this medicinal product is to be observed, e.g. to examine the extent of environmental effects, i.e. the size of the area or the number of people who will likely be affected on the project. Factors such as polymorphisms, irreversible effects and synergistic effects are also considered to be related. The requirements for microinvolved to Class C are burdensome for e.g. Farmers who want to activate the town river. Therefore, it is worth checking to see if there is no need to increase the definition of the class, thereby simplifying the license team procedure. Today, the procedure is that the average farmer does not have the resources to complete it because of the cost and complexity of it. Experience shows that the requirements for Class B and Class C projects have developed towards full environmental assessment. Thus, in the case of microindustry, there is a cost, weight, and time - consuming process, and not consistent with the same dimension in other sectors, such as. In agriculture and tourism. It may take two to three years to get permission to build medium-sized activation. Credit agencies seldom lend a loan until the expected activation has all the rights. Thus, preparation costs are often a major obstacle to the executive. Some individuals have gone to high costs to obtain permission for minor activities before deciding whether the project will be met. Farmers who want to build little activation at home, therefore, need to meet the same criteria as major inactivations were at high costs. The minor inducers include e.g. Put under the same hat and large inducers when it comes to security requirements, which means they have a relative higher cost. In addition, the ablation produced by microinvolves to create the electrical energy system, by relieving it of the pressures caused by a reduced assessment from the Landsnet, largely to the distribution and Landsnets. Implementation for the implementation of electronic energy laws, No. 1040/2005, which includes: for the exchange of the benefits produced by microinducers to the electrical energy system and it is clear that the Regulation needs to be reviewed for the minor inducers. The small workings are environmentally friendly energy sources that help to reduce the emissions of unwanted substances that affect earth's temperature. Monuments and natural disasters are often fully reversible. Then, as with major activations, large areas of land are not being sunk under lagoons. Microscopic intensification is linked to the electrical energy system on the land's diffuser hosts, thus strengthening the transport pathways. They are thus being used, strengthened, and improved by the electrical systems that have already been built up by society. The energy plant began at the end of 2016 microindustrial projects with the aim of promoting electricity production in the country, thus increasing the security of energy. Small inactivations can strengthen electricity production in individual parts of the country, building smaller jobs in those areas. The Agency recently published seven reports on the possibility of smaller water - power activations in many countries. The report Miniatures, ideas of small activations based on data from Iceland's Weather Office in 2018 shows that the idea is that the microinvolved project is due to a serious position in electrical security. In the third phase of the protection and energy efficiency programme, there has been little to do with eco-efficient improvements in electricity transport systems between parts of the country. The development of microintendents is therefore important to keep up with increasing demand for electricity for population growth in Iceland and can be a factor in the demand for electricity growth in the next few years. In particular in areas where the transport system cannot handle further development of job activities, small intensification is especially important. The benefits of their installation are being made in increasing income currents to landowners/growers and rural communities, thus strengthening the groundwork for country living in many parts of the country. By facilitated the development of microindustries, we are also working in harmony with the 2018 -224 strategy adopted by the General Assembly as a Congress resolution in the spring of 2018. One of the effectiveness objectives of the co-primary programme is based on section B.3 as follows: To investigate and support the potential for increased electricity production in the region by small activations, thereby promoting national energy security. Norwegians have been successful in the fields of microindustries, a single institution, abbreviated NVE, responsible for licences. NVE has mapped possible activation options, but the Norwegian government financed it, so that all hydropowers could be mapped, using models similar to the watershed watershed and the Weather Service have a way of managing land to predict water flows. Enterprises have developed that take steps to prepare for activation, financing, design and license, and make long-term contracts with farmers for income from activation. The report of microindustries published in Norway last August shows that NVE sets the standard conditions for allowing this to happen, e.g. about minimum volume of water falling. The definition of the highest and lowest surface of the input membrane is also set out and the location of the salmon ladder should be located. It is also defined as stopping activation and then running again. All permission information is public, and no building should be started until NVE has been granted permission for the implementation. A respectable president. As attributed to the above, the concept of small activations to the electrical system is costly and time - consuming. Transporters therefore believe that it is important to review laws and regulations in connection with the implementation of microindustries and to point out that e.g. You can look to Norway in that regard. In recent years, small activations, defined as 10 MW, have increased dramatically, with many benefits. Environmental energy and both manpower and nature are often fully reversible. In addition to building up the network around the country's distribution panels, microengineering strengthens the transport pathways as well as reduces electricity loss and emissions of diffusers. The current government's policy is to strengthen the country's population, equal access to services, equal opportunities for employment, and contribute to sustainable development across the country. Under these circumstances, the project falls and contributes to an increased level of energy costs for rural areas and urban areas. Mobilization initiatives for microintendents in this country are many, particularly on Western, North and East, or almost anywhere where the distribution system needs to be strengthened. But the details and regulations of microindustries are burdensome. So the process is long and costly and needs to be simplified. The microintendents strengthen the distribution system, and this may reduce the cost and therefore important to the microinvestment and planning activities. We need to see the light of applying the town stream. I might be able to give you an example of the benefits of microdoting. On the west coast, there are a number of microinvents, which do not reach 500 kW each, in May alone. They were now being connected so that they can strengthen the network and electrical security of the region when the big lines fall out. They are activated into the system and retain electricity instead of driving backup power with oil. I hope that this proposal will go to the job committee and be discussed there, and it will be called out to the manager and others to eat the meal in the processing of this case. - I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u144	Mr. President. The small fortresses have a long history in Iceland, we know them from the early part of the last century and all the good things about it. However, this word or term, a minor inducer, is very misleading. Like what? A senator went over that for as many as 51⁄210 MW activations, which, of course, are no minor inducers. Melancholy activation is 8 MW and the old grave year activation is 3.2, photoactivation is 14. These are all relatively large structures, so, of course, it would be better to call them, these, the ones I'm talking about, just the mediocres. When I read through the report and listen to what. A senator seems to me that the proposal applies primarily to the C-class of the environment, which is 200 kW inducers, i.e. 0.2 MW or less. When you're reading through the motion itself, it's just a bunch of mini-circuits without saying it's C-class. I'll ask you, isn't that the point? Councilmen who make this suggestion primarily to this smallest category of minor inactivations? They're the real mini-circuits to me. The rest I wanted, as I say, to call something completely different.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u145	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for the counter-sponsored. Miniatures are defined as having a minimum of 10 MW, and as indicated here, a minister is authorized to review laws and regulations. In this suggestion there is no question, and no assessment of these different sizes, whether or not we're talking about activations below 200 kW, or whether the end will be that, if this is done, that the system will be simpler for activations of 200 kW or less than 500. It is not spoken of. It is this definition of minor activation. We're not evaluating whether the process needs to be simpler for these things, whether we need a different amount of simplicity, I think we just need to simplify the whole system. But I completely agree that, of course, it should be the simplest class C, less than 200 kW. But we just have this definition, and we don't take it into account in this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u146	Thank you. A senator for the answer. Then I've misunderstood something. Somehow, after reading the report, I came to believe that this was primarily true of this smallest category, when it comes to smaller activations, let's say more than 1 MW, and up to 5◯10. I don't think there's anything to simplify, but these are so different types of construction that it needs to be done with caution in order to do that. We are a few senators considering providing a bill with a responsibility for environmental assessment, e.g. all activations between 1 and 10 MW. But I appreciate that answer. Then the synopsis itself is expressed here. Senators, while my misunderstanding is that it was merely a reference to the smallest of the fortresses. I'm glad it comes out, for me anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-12-18.u147	A respectable president. As I said before, microdotes are defined as 10 MW and less. The report also says that each preparation, every activation, assesses the level of work, and even the environmental assessment. I understand that these larger inducers, perhaps 500 kW and larger, up to 10 MW, have fully completed environmental assessment. Work at 200 kW activation is not the same as in larger activations. This depends exactly on the impact of a planning agency feels that the activation has and I don't think it's going to be reduced. Perhaps there is not much will. However, the simple system doesn't necessarily mean you're attacking anything, anywhere. I think that's the exit point. It is important to revise and also look to Norway, what Norway is doing. They seem to be successful, so we may be able to pick up on them and do something better. At any rate, though, the process would have to be viewed with glasses.
