ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u1	Mr. President. I'm just gonna go over this thing in the main points right now because it's the first speech of the day. Of course, we here at the General Assembly are citizens of the public tax, and we should be careful to handle the tax dollars and the financial resources wisely and as responsible as possible. We are to make wise decisions. We're supposed to spend the money, the tax money, good work, public interest. Here we are dealing with the establishment of an object society that is supposed to build wood for transport in the area of the capital where there is a great need and is wise. It is wise to build rootways, misdirected corners, cyclepaths, footpaths, alleys, alleys, and other things. That's a good idea. Of course, the exact procedure is in the hands of professionals. Building a red carpet for the city line is a project that, as I can best see from the available data and what I've seen and study about the city line, is a project that is not carefully implemented. It's not fully implemented at all. When they begin this journey, they do not know exactly where it will end. You don't know how much it's going to be used. Many articles and opinions and talks here at councils, not just members of the Middle Class, but more speakers, give evidence that there is a road trip where there is a great risk of a lot of money, money from the public, to be wasted for a relatively small number of useful purposes. Today, of course, around the same time. 4% of public transportation to make its way. The task is to put public transportation really in the first place here in the capital area and other traffic to depart. Those who choose to ride their family cars to and from work can expect to spend many years in traffic jams, as has been the case in the past few years, and they will continue to do so. The middle class members are advocates of responsible financial administration, responsible management of public funds, and a city line to which we believe that there is a great chance that public tax will be handled freely. Many articles testify to this fact. Before I do what I want to do, I'm going to read the review of this bill about the establishment of the official part of a society that is supposed to have these projects done. At the end of the story, it says, with permission of the president: ▪ An examination does not consider material to be the key elements of the bill on authority to establish public relations about the projects in preparation. So says the President's Reconnaissance: However, it is reasonable to point out the importance of planning prior to implementing both thorough and transparent tasks. As today's, much of the so - called city line seems to be vague. So this comment is made to address the importance of planmaking. That's the point. In short, that is the point. The table has not been set exactly how they lay down for how this city line should be, for whom it is to be, how it affects other traffic, and how much money is spent.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u2	Mr. President. We're talking about permission to establish an official central transport development partner in the capital area. The biggest project on earth is this so - called city line. It is expected that if you take the figure available in the files, it will be protected by government funds of less than 50 billion dollars, 49.6. There is much to say about that. Mr. President. This case is naturally neglected when for the reason that this so - called city line is not well defined. There are no documents and analyses that must be made when it comes to projects and investments, especially in the amount of money involved here. It is enough to mention that there is not even a plan for this phenomenon, so I now take to heart a word that has been used repeatedly in a speech of anguish. paritaprevir The Independence Party, Sigríður Á. Andersen, so the matter is not finished. There have been indications that as it is proposed, it is seriously accessed by a law on public projects, and there is yet another reason. I would also like to mention, Mr. President, that there is a need for a party opinion on this matter. There were 50 requests and six reviews received. Most of the requests were sent out on May 12 and every 22 May, i.e. for ten days when at least Every two to three weeks to give reviews about as much important as this. I miss very much, Mr. President, that there is no idea to form a police officer who needs to be able to get around the city easily, the firefighter who must also be able to make it through the city through no doubt because of a fire and because of his duties in the use of medical transportation. Where are the reviews and opinions of these parties on this city line and its effects on the easy roads of police cars and ambulances and fire cars? This is totally out of the question. Mr. President. Similarly, there are a number of people who have a job related to their ability to travel through the city. I miss it, for example. how not to be considered by a cab driver who performs a very important service in behalf of those in need, who perform services in the elderly, the desperate, and all of this. Then there are all the people who need to be able to travel through the city because they serve at home with the elderly. There are, for example. Nurses who come to the homes of the elderly who visit many of them each day for their work. There are physical therapists, Mr. President. There's people with food deliveries. There are people who come for social service in people's homes. Are these people to go because of their work with a city line between these households, or how is this supposed to be the case? What are the attitudes of these people whom I have mentioned here? There are, of course, a lot more, but this case is completely substantiated. This is explained because this issue is late, and a brief period of time was given to provide reviews, so the matter is naturally not sufficient in any way. They do not measure up to any physical requirements and no formal requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u3	V.E.G. President. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to review what is stated at the beginning of the committee's opinion of the minority, as a boy. paritaprevir Birgir of Þórarinsson, by permission of the president: A mitigation committee welcomes the emphasis presented in this bill on the construction of transport workers in the capital area. The smaller parts are particularly welcome to the modern development of the light management system of the capital area, to deal with construction of tracks, the estimated structure of cycle path and other eco-friendly species of transport. The smaller portion, however, cannot agree with the urban structure plans. That's what it's all about. Various explanations, many of the furs, have been given about what the city line is and where the idea of the phenomenon comes from. Are we talking about a train or a bus? Will the city line be a wagon on the tea, or a long bus, a limousine, perhaps even powered by electricity? The city line will demand stop stations where it is necessary for people to walk in, wheelchairs, walkers, broken arms going to hospital, patients going to Land Hospital. A line system is fine, with little parking, high pressure on public transportation, and waiting at public cars waiting stations, and dispensing for that amount of time. Such a system can increase transport capacity, none of which share. The problem with such a system here is that it does not exist in this country with a lot of traffique. The strain on public transportation is so small that it does not have a name at all. At the present time, it can move four or five times as many as our customers are today. It's about one in 25 or 4% in times of stress. This says that even if the bus takes 12 to 6 percent of its traffic, as it already can, it hardly sees the impact on water in the number of cars. So the city line is a very bad idea, derived from a dream of eco-friendly public transportation. It will cost huge sums of money, the 60 billion that are now being spoken of hardly meet the current cost of loss. Also large are the cars that spend 60 litres on the hundred instead of the 45 that are going today. A lot of people dream of bus electricity. There is no room for storage, except on a roof that is very bad. Maybe there'll be an electric cable that connects the wagons. Is the cost in questionable cost calculations? A few years ago, it was calculated that cars would be driven on a record, even taken into large investments in a gas - building station. But how does the country use the city line? Will there be a giant truckload in Mosfellstown or Red Lake so that people can keep their cars there when they reach the capital? When all other road users are pressed, they will not be able to take advantage of the streets. The city's idea is followed, especially by those who live in the middle. Where would the Councillor of Reykjavík prepare to agree? I want at the end of my talk to put my words at the outset: We are glad that these are being addressed in the transport sector, but this city-lining concept is totally out of control and we want to get out of there and work much better on the subject so that the missing ones in this program can be done in which they fully demonstrate what is going on and what the cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u4	President. By the end of the day, I was discussing the work of this bill and the chapter on consultation. It is almost possible to read that chapter, but especially the last sentence. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ For example, the urgent need to contribute the bill to the Council was not consulted on the design of a bill in government consultation. We have not been part of it because it is not a great willingness to discuss this matter on the part of those who present it, at least not those who are present and who claim to support it. This is likely because these people feel that discussions are not effective and that more information is not available, so we, the members of the council, who have participated in this discussion, have offered reasons why this is not working out at all, are actually a major lifelong problem that is being placed in place here, but it has not been answered. I think it must be the same reason people didn't want to put it in their consultations, they want to avoid debates and simply try to run it through with the slightest discussion so that the facts of the matter are less evident, for why should this be so as used here as a argument when men are already working as the council agreed? Clearly, the council is considered primarily to be some sort of deportation agency, at least As far as this matter is concerned, the design of the city's sheltering chairs is now being introduced without any planning, without the cost of its implementation, and without approval of the General Assembly, while men set up a show in the City Line Hall and present design for the benches for the shelters. It's all on the same book. To the extent that those who support this matter do not trust to defend it here in the Senate Hall, it is constant, but there is very little evidence. In this case, the assessment of the effect should be taken. It says, by permission of the president: In addition, the following aims are being aimed at: to promote legal, efficient, efficient, and safe transport in the capital area, with the same structure for all transport. Effective and practical? What is efficiency in this situation when it comes to taking one lane in each direction from the city's major transport roads and thus pressing toward other traffic, it is sometimes described as a goal to squeeze other traffic? What's efficiency in getting the lights in the same time as you talk about setting up a new light control system, a high-tech light control system in order to achieve the maximum economy in light management, should the city line should be put in place of all lights and therefore confuse the entire light control system of the capital area? In other words, it makes it impossible to establish this high-tech light control system to achieve practicality there. And what is the practicality that humans first do not know what will cost? They took an example of some foreign projects that should have cost $1.15 billion. 5 miles. What, though, was the cost of these projects? In most cases, it took two, three, four, even five times that. Yet, people allow themselves to throw away that because somewhere in a foreign country, people were supposed to let the mile cost $1.15 billion, it is necessary to plan here in this immense long city line. Let us not forget that the first stage - the 13 miles [13 km] - is as long as the entire city line in Edinburgh, Britain. All the city line there, first leg here. That assignment became famous. It got famous because of a tatting, and because of a pre-run at expense, Mr. President. I see I can't finish this assessment section and ask the President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u5	Mr. President. I've been discussing quite a few things about the construction of the city line, how it affects the environment, etc., but I'm going to do a little different now because this time I'm going to ask for it at the highest level. Mr President that he will take this matter from the council program, and I will explain why. Last night, we had a meeting with a branch office expert named Einar S. Hálfdánarson-Deathson. He reasoned that this law we are now working on, and we Middle Classes have warned, is not a law on the orders of public projects, No. 84/2001. These include, Mr. President, that we should first consider basics. This expert says, "We're starting on the wrong end. " They're forming a society without a basic thought. They are forming a society without any differences in the ability to identify and compare because they are always going to make the most of it. It's supposed to make a basic consideration for even. The effects on climate and such projects. But plans must be laid out, and in short, this fine expert suggested that the case be postponed and this legal primary concern would be followed by the law on public projects, No. 84/2001. A person here committed to volunteering 120 billion dollars. it's natural to do a full basic check. The tea and cost analysis must be available. It is required under these same laws that the State must make this basic thought itself, not the city, because the person paying the city must first consider. I must say, Mr. President, this is not the first time that new information appears in a matter of observation to us middle-class members and of the like. We were talking about something last year. There were a lot of new information, and some of them are transvestructing and developing today. But the fact is, Mr. President, that this case has come so far, so inverse. I'd also like to be able to do the same, Mr. President, and this I do not do every day. I would like to quote a recent article. paritaprevir On June 11 of the past in the morning issue, the name of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, was published by the King James Version. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ What the council does mainly is a law, and it does not do well. It can't be said that the council is efficient because the same matters are unsupervised at the council. It is not easy to say that the council is a problem because it is regularly run through with economic and right - to - face damage. That's what it says. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and he is the representative of a party that considers himself to be the number one who wants the most transparency, the greatest difficulty, in short, that this class is like freshly fallen snow. But now all of a sudden, Mr. President, this wave and this wave have. A senator is not interested in working hard to legalize because it is not suitable because Pirats are in charge on the other side of the city of Reykjavík, and now it doesn't matter that we're going well, that there's a problem and it's working on transparency, and it's working here so that there's no financial and rights harm, which is exactly the risk, after this opinion that we've just got to be allowed to pass the law on public activity. Therefore, Mr. President, in great earnest, I ask the President to issue this matter immediately, postpone it so that the Council is not putting a law to which the existing law on public projects is laid. It's clear that I can't go any further on this matter and that I have to pray to the highest degree. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u6	Mr. President. I've been going here just to review the main terms of the bill, which are expected to establish the official transport infrastructure community in the capital area. This is part of a community in the capital area and the government fund is about to develop, or they're aimed at it, if the bill becomes legal. What I wanted to stay for, Mr. President, is what says, for example. of 7th. that are talking about the takeover and development of the land owned by the State. It says, by permission of the president: The EU shall agree with a special agreement with the Minister of the State, with the rights and responsibilities associated with it, as part of the government's contribution. The contract should include: determine the limit of the land and its delivery criteria for the company. And then you come to what's important. There's already been some construction work in Kveldnaland. There are various structures of the Keldna, a research facility, and these activities need to be removed, and they need to be found naturally, and new housing is built for the operation and all of this is costed. It's, for example. Is it likely a significant cost to get a new property and where it should be? Is it the city of Reykjavík to be assigned to it, etc.? There's nothing to it here, Mr. President, who's going to be at the expense of this, and I think that's a big fault. It's like it's just assumed that the government fund will handle this like so many other things in this agreement. I think it's completely unnatural. I think in this matter it is natural that this should be divided between each partner's share, and therefore it is missing here, to my judgment, a law to change the State's cost of moving the institutions from the country and to put them in another place, the other owners pay in proportion to their share of property. This is what I think is missing in there and supposed to be in there. There is a need for who to care for these costs, and it is only natural that they are related to a community share of property. I hope that people will look at this and that this law will be more clear. I also want to come on 6. in which you will discuss the build-in contract. It says, by permission of the president: The U.S.A. and the United States 1st par. establish a contract with one or more members as needed, in which the role of the network will be further determined by the construction of transport workers in the capital area. In the agreement between parties, the two parties should include: The financial structure of the company, the details of the implementation of individual projects, the possession of workers as well as their provision for the fragmentation of the society. The property of workers and their arrangements for wearouts? This is a further explanation. That's for sure. It's not to see in comments at 6. It says about 6. Article, with the permission of the President: ◯... the possession of workers to relevant operators as well as the provision of other holdings at the end of the business. It says: "It is not based on the fact that the union as such is responsible for the management of individual road workers. There is no mention of the price of these possessions. Therefore, it is necessary to come, and to my judgment normal, to make the total price. I see time has passed, Mr. President. After taking an answer, I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u7	A respectable president. I just wanted to talk to you about a meeting at a budget board last night, where we got a client who discussed a law on public projects. There it was suggested to the committee that this arrangement somehow violates the laws of public projects. Then the Ministry of finance came to visit, and it was very clear and clear how it did not last, pointing out, as it were, how the Passage process is, and that all government agencies have to comply with the laws on public projects, even though it is not stated specifically as it were. in these laws. I wanted to have confirmation. A senator said that his understanding was the same as that of me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's excellent objection and the good thing he did in this because last night's budget committee had a very important meeting in which the Supreme Court attorney's viewpoint was expressed, who was a guest of the meeting and is also a legal accountant and has been involved in a number of such projects. He expressed his view that the matter really was growing that it was not by law regarding the order of public action. It's even necessary. I'm going to have a legal primary check. The law is very clear in this regard. I have to say, in the light of this meeting, I thought it would have been normal for people to postpone the case and to consider the original opinion laid down in II. section of the Treaty on official implementation procedures, particularly in sections 3 and 4. g., and then start this company. This fine guest came along to realize that it was actually starting backwards, and that's what's interesting about this. So it should start with a principle, and it is also said to make comparisons between the options being considered, programme must be established, etc. These are things we haven't seen, not seen a plan for example, and we've mentioned it here specifically. So, the man who performs this proportion of state funds, that is, 75% owner, should do his own original consideration, that is, in the spirit of the law. I've got to say, yeah. A senator, I thought the Ministry wasn't clear enough about this, and I'm absolutely in it and I don't see that there's any delay in this project that people are trying to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u9	A respectable president. That didn't surprise me very much. The client was ordered from the Middle East and reviewed this matter in rather inaccurate details and could not clearly explain what it was exactly as a violation of the government law. Because in all the remaining tasks, the project is not started. If the initial checkup is not completed, it can still be done before the scheme starts. There is nothing in this process and the order of this society that violates the law of public projects. This was very clear in the case of the Ministry of finance and nothing at all. A senator has said or expressed himself in the case of a client violates it, not at all. I'm curious to know if the senator can list one point, just one point that exactly violates a clear and clear law on public construction. There's been reports that management plans are the point following the initial analysis. The budget is not started by law on official projects. It is still in progress that initial checks can run out before it begins. This applies to a number of different projects there. Some of them vary later at the stage, so it's a long time before you have to start with your initial checks on them. Yet, we still have plenty of reports on how this will look in general so that priorities can be arranged for. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So if the senator can only mention one point, only one point would be appreciated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u10	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Hv. A senator said that this fine guest who came to the Board of Credits last night was inexplicably blurred. I don't agree with him at all. However, I especially noticed one thing at a time. A senator. Hv. A senator is well - known for wanting to have a good look at things and a balanced, critical attitude. But it was clear to me. Before listening to the visitor, a senator had thought of something. It was obvious. Hv. A senator has often talked about the need to comply with official financial laws, especially with the viral epidemic and all of these measures set out here by the government. That's why. A senator always talking about not being under government law and putting on stitches on it, and that's good, and I compliment you. A senator for that. But when it comes to evaluating whether this large project of tens of billions is in accordance with official projects law, no, that's why. The senator is not here to criticize the role. He has developed an opinion, says one who was blurred, the guest who is the Supreme Court lawyer, and an accountant who knows the matter well, and he traced it very well. No, he's not like he's supposed to be because of what he's doing. A senator has taken a look at the matter, and it makes me feel very sad because of it. A senator is well - known for trying to put things first, and people must be social parties to themselves. Senator, when they cross these cases. It's very clear in the law, and I'm afraid. A senator to review a law on the order of public projects. It says, for example. the management programme should be available. There is only one example that shows that the matter is not well worked. They're supposed to be careful and therefore they're to postpone this case, make this original opinion under the law on public construction, and then start the company. That's the right way to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u11	Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, 11th. Smoke. So, I'd like to go to bed. The president makes it clear that there is no way to extend a verbal exchange under that premise, and the president trusts to win. A member of the council will explain the reasons for feeling that they have been misjudged.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u12	A respectable president. Here we go. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson, I noted that I had preconceived opinions about the comments presented at a meeting yesterday's committee. Far from it! It's not like that. [[It's a henning policy.]] I'm in the middle of a series of Henti policy. No, I listened to what the client had to say. I asked him for detailed explanations on how the law was being violated, and in my opinion it simply did not become clear. There's exactly nothing in it that says I've had preconceived opinions on how this case was and the review would go. But I pray, please, that my mouth is not being put into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u13	Mr. President. Now, I appreciate the fact that the president of the council is a minor authority, but I resent the fact that when the senators are fired, they can get away with the abuse of a team that is entitled to come up for their own sake, Mr. President, the excuse, and they're angry about the fact that when they're fired, they'll be able to go off on the wrong side. Mr. President. I feel that this is a gross misuse, and I trust that the president will not allow such conduct again, for it is a direct misuse of this great force to be accused.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u14	It is often difficult to determine if giving is the right thing to do when they wish and think that they have been falsely drilled. Also, it may be strongly recommended to allow men to continue discussions about the President's conference board, which may not have a problem, so presidents are frequently, as I know they would. A senator knows, in a difficult position, the need to evaluate things and not have much time to reach a decision. But let's have a look. A senator was introduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u15	A respectable president. Just to close the discussion of the difficult role of the president, there has been a particular misunderstanding in the last phase that has to deal with whether group members agree or not when it comes to objections, but it is later time to bring it to the ground. I'm here discussing the establishment of an official partner due to projects linked to the transport contract of the capital area. I had already considered the order in which I was going to go through the material, but I'm just going to compromise that order now and enter on things that are important to me to be maintained in this discussion. Of course, it is so that this legal bill is largely going on and primarily on to frame an agreement on planning and funding the development of transport timber that was signed on September 26, 2019 of the rural community's governors in the capital area, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, and Transport and Regional Ministers. As often as it is, the risks of what is written in the agreement are not only the dangers but also in what is not written in the agreement and is left for later interpretations. That is why I have considered it very important that in committees, or after the events of the Committee to Overseers' Funds Department, the understanding of certain things will be sharpened. These fences can be called fences, fences to be installed on the one side, financial relations between state funds and rural society and this company, or a representative of the local community inside. I think it's affecting the sense that there won't be an open section from the state fund there if the projects go ahead because it's going to be a very serious situation. A project like, so I now mention one complex project that is framed in here, jumps on a Grand Way, and experience teaches you that there will be unseen things, both at times and at cost in much more than in traditional roadmaking projects. You need to make sure that you don't have a government fund there with the extra bill. The fact is, in this 120 billion construction package, which is now framed, 105 billion of these 120 billion in one way or another come from a government fund, for the object intended to be financed by so - called quick charges is completely out of the wind and no bill shows how such would be maintained. So all the responsibility is on the side of the State for the 60 billion. Therefore, what we in the Central category would like to make sure that there will be no unnecessary amount of money drawn from the government funds to first complete the work programme, and then the parties of the agreement will say, "There's been so much invested in this. There's nothing that we can do except that the government will be involved in the operation of the city line. But I'd like to remind you that in the majority wing of the dog. The transport and transport committee, now implemented and awaiting a vote, is particularly responsible for public transport within the rural community. Other fences, warnings, or corrections that I consider necessary to become involved in organizational matters are that the rural community does not get in the way, pardon the language, for future projects. I'm particularly worried about one point of Daffy Way construction. Diving is not one of the main points of the agreement, but in the leading committee's list, it says, on permission of the president: ▪ In the implementation of the implementation of the implementation programme projects, particular attention will be given to the payment of a link between existing stockways, such as Sunwaterways, into the root courses of the capital area. That's why I believe it's important that this be handled by the organizational relations between Vega and the state of the capital. That's what I'm asking for, chief. Mr President, to be reassigned to the rosary, I'll assume an earlier organized review.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u16	Mr. President. I was just going to go through a BS report for economics at the University of Iceland from October 2018. There, Pálmi Sigurjónsson, in his essay on the national economic benefits of the city, the cost-and-benefit analysis, crosses the city line, and crosses the road forecasts and things, and I was about to review this fine essay a little bit. He says, for example. on page 24. 26, with the permission of a president, who is referring to the traffic forecasts: However, the decision to increase the share of public transport from 4% to 12% in the year 2040 is expected to be somewhat optimistic; in view of the start of the 2030, the target is to increase the share of public transport from 4% to 12% in the 2040 is to be reached by 9%. In other words, he is there to say that he feels this is a optimistic assumption, that the object of public transport triples in this year, over the next 19 years, and more than double in the next nine years. I can agree with the author of this essay, and then he says, by permission of a president: ▪ This must be considered as the best possible case of events while the projection of unchanged tourism is the worst possible case where no change in public transport will be observed. I'd like to point out that the share of public transportation has not been up or down in the last nine years. It was 4% and it's still 4%. ▪ As noted earlier, public transportation alone cannot be shown to affect traffic volume and it is likely that to achieve these goals would have to be controlled by personal vehicles in some way, such as roadside traffic. He is actually saying that this is a very optimistic projection, and he is also saying that to expand the share of public transport, people must be controlled from their private cars, from their family cars, to public transportation by road or by other means, possibly resulting in a decrease in fare and the increase in community costs. I also planned to cross over to his expense analysis on page 20. 29 from the essay. I read about the cost of business, with the permission of a president: ▪ The town line discussion has focused mainly on the cost of society's implementation of this new transport system. This is an enormous investment for the public, so it is only natural that the taxpayers have their own opinion on the matter. This is what we've been trying to talk about, and we were surprised that there's been no more debate about the city line than we've seen, and there's no intention of going through this without knowing it well enough or that there's been enough discussion in society. The author of this essay has only gone to the cost of operating, much discussed not being available, and I was going here to do only the report on the cost of operating, which is under way, and he says here on page 6. 36: 36: With these criteria, as well as the extrapolation of the amount... we have an assessment of the cost of operating at the city line, as shown in Table 7. The overall cost per year, according to the author, for the city line, is estimated to be 4.7 billion less, 4.7 billion. This is not the case with current public transportation, which is a considerable number of billions more. It is thus adding the cost of operating in the opinion of authors of less than 5 billion a year to the current cost of public transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u17	Mr. President. Later, I'm going to discuss the opinion or publicity that took place on a budget committee, and we've received a small memo from our man at the budget board, where Einar S. Hálfdánarson-deadson, the Supreme Court Attorney and Recontractor, was pointing out that the rights to the local stock society were to obey. Official financial law, but I'll go over it later. However, I plan to again and again that the reason why we consider this matter to be dangerous, as it is seen today, is that we are concerned that it is tying up a treasure for long periods of time in ways that cannot be properly controlled with the funds of the state's budget for this project. I know it's at the council at least Three members of the council who have served as financial ministers should therefore know the importance of having clear rules, clear regulations, and little or no uncertainty about the aspects of the government budget and expenses. I would have liked to hear, Mr. President, these fine senators come here and argue why we do not have to put any further notice into this law of the official body we see here. I think it's all right, if men come here and argue with it, to admit that I'm wrong, but it hasn't tried. There has been no attempt to defend what we have here or to refute any anxiety we have. It is even so, as mentioned earlier, that members of the council who are inclined to be precise, suitable, and willing to comply entirely with the law seem to beat off their requirements when it comes to this project and is a little strange, I must say. Another thing I've criticized in my speeches is that I'm concerned that this possibility of a much better budget into these projects, especially this city-lining project, will affect other Kingdom funds because these funds will not be used often, the same money. I have, for example. Worried that other road transports here in the capital area, in the vicinity of the city and the rural communities around here, will pave the way for decades, in this way, that the defenses are not strong enough. I also worry that the roads near Reykjavík, Westland, in the northern part of the West, for example, will remain in the background. There are still dirt roads. There are roads between smaller villages and settlements, roads that link travel sites that need extra funding. I'm worried that those who intend to support this non-published check are at the same time saying to the good people who have been waiting for relief: you just have to wait longer. I'm going to reiterate it, Mr. President, which I've said several times and I'm going to try to remember in all my speeches below: this project is going to be over schedule. It will be brought to the state funds and more money will be demanded. I can't tell you if it will be in the second year of this project, the third year or when. It will be brought to the state funds and will require more money. Then a government fund must be able to say, in accordance with the agreement that it is simply not available, except perhaps. that there were certain conditions to be met. But that is not to be distributed as the case seems today, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u18	Mr. President. It has been reported that at a panel meeting last night, a Supreme Court attorney, as well as a legal accountant and with a lot of experience in this case, has made very clear and clear comments on the issues discussed, saying that it is a serious matter in the administration of public projects. Mr. President. This law is no. 84/2001. This is a very ambitious legislation and is reason to look at it only in this context because this legislation aims to establish the process around the process, to sustain, or to change the structure of a structure that is spent in part or in part by a government fund, as stated in Article 1. The law. And it is conditional that the treatment of a case occurs in 2 gr. for official implementation from the beginning until it is finished. It depends on a specific channel, which is divided into four stages, and these stages are a basic consideration, a plan, a practical procedure, and a return evaluation. Mr. President. This case is badly worked and incomplete. I allow me to use these words because the term city line, which is used to describe the largest project that we will discuss here, is not even properly defined. There is not exactly what this is, and in this case, there is not even one of the largest projects available to attack here in the capital area, and there is a Sunway. Consider what the law says about the order of public projects for initial consideration. The book of Leviticus states: "In the first century C.E.... that initial analysis and comparison are needed in terms of the solutions of the needs of the project to satisfy. This city line is naturally designed to fill a need for public transportation and to pay for their streets and various items. But where is the survey and comparison of it to other options? There's nothing wrong with all this painting together. That goes on in 2 mg. Section 3. that there is a natural plan for a written report - there is a set of options, and it says that these plans are two. What are these two factors? Yes, it is exactly the factors that we have mentioned here several times, members of the Central Party, i.e. On the one hand, the target cost - nothing is more than an extraterrestrial figure and no one insists that it contains a stable budget for building costs for this so - called urban line - and a monthly budget, including loan costs and income if appropriate. This is what's called in the spoken form of a management plan. And there's no such plan, so it should just be dismissed, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u19	Mr. President. I was studying the bill's report, and I began to discuss chapter 6 that discusses the impact of these laws. In the meantime, though, this happened. Þórarinsson Birgir brought in a remarkable input into the discussion and informed us that a specialist's opinion simply does not agree with the bill as it is suggested that the government's law on public financial matters lays it upon the normal obligation to account for the initiality of the project that is being carried out before financial support is placed into it. I'm not talking about before the start of a new kingdom to oversee this, to raise money, and to implement it. I think I have to give a special speech on that matter, because it's very striking, Mr. President, that there's no such initial consideration. There isn't even a board plan, and all figures on the cost of construction are very high. There is an occasion in a special talk. But in the meantime, I'm going to finish my tour of chapter 6 on the influence of an evaluation because it provides a basis for what I'm going to discuss later, which is why this bill does not meet the laws on public finances. But in chapter 6, it says, with permission from the president: With the approved bill, important steps would be taken to achieve the above targets and to address the necessary construction of transport timbers in the capital area. At the same time, it is considered important to the current economic situation that a successful investment project will be undertaken in this country to promote the economy and commercial creation. A promising investment project to stimulate the economy and commercial development - will people try to argue that the city line project that has not even been entrusted to them to plan for a business, despite the fact that the state and the general public place are worth tens of billions, hundreds of billions of billions of dollars of dollars on the project, is a lucrative project? If so, the same should come up and explain it, as it has been said that now the emphasis must be on making money an investment project that stimulates economy and employment. Does the economy and commercial creation stimulate traffic in the capital area and still increase traffic congestions that keep people from getting to and from work, that they can do their jobs that need to travel while they're at work? Is such an approach going to promote the economy and increase the economy? It would be very interesting to hear the evidence, but they're missing completely, for the plan was that this case would go through with a minimum discussion as far as it is now. As I reasoned earlier, when I explained that the plan had been decided not to be put in the government's consultations, where bills are generally presented to the public and to the interests of interest groups and to others who might have thought of them, it is simply because the stated objectives and nature of the matter are totally at odds. But in this section on impact, we also say, by permission of the president, and now we come to the government's real estate society: Then the land of the State will be assigned to the people to the club, which will be assigned to care for the development and sale of it. All the rest of the country's sales will run undelivered to the project on the construction of transport in the capital area. If it gets less than 15 billion bucks. the state will ensure that [[The president calls.]] Mr. President, it's not good to be stopped in the middle of a sentence which is one of the main sessions of what I was going to discuss here in my speech, so I'm asking for the highest degree. President, signing up again to the speaker's file.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u20	V.E.G. President. I'd like to include in this talk just what was mentioned in the talks and comments earlier on what happened to the visiting committee last night. There was the comment made by a specialist who appeared to the committee that basic research needs to be carried out before a project such as this on public projects, but it is not on the table. As the individual put it, the opposite ends up and there is no plan for action. There's no plan. There's no basics, just like I said before. Still, the case is to be run through. Still, keep this going. As noted many times, this matter was not included in government consultations. This big thing that should probably be published there because it is now published, what should be said, less, though all matters matter. It is widely used and has to be used. But because I was referring to this project and there's no original opinion and because there's a difference of opinion about what it takes and what it doesn't need, I don't think that there's any basic concern. I'm not talking about plan and management. I printed a law about the order of public projects and in Article 3. Their laws make it clear that basic research is made, if you let me quote it, by permission of the president, in the 3rd C.E. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: A study of Frumat is made, and comparison is worth the solution to the needs of those to be met. The report on primary analysis shall include practical strategies. These programmes should be two-fold, one-way target cost, including the cost of planning, and the annual budget, including the annual budget Credit costs and income, if appropriate. The report shall address the evidence that the option of the person being taken should be selected, including the practical accounts used in comparison. In addition, the report on primary analysis should follow the recommendations on location and size, as well as cell fats for the proposed implementation, as appropriate. And only here at 5th. Since the decision has now been made to provide funds for public work, without initial consideration, it should be carried out in accordance with Article 3 and Article 4. fix these.How much more so that they don't need to be put in touch with the others. And here in 6. par.Unable to connect to POP ▪ When a government and another member's official implementation is being made up of plans, a contract should be made between prospective owners and those involved in a strategy. Enforcement of the State Fund for budget making is subject to the written approval of the Ministry of finance on that contract. So it is strictly clear that these things need to be okay, and as already noted, the beginning is completely wrong. V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned because I wasn't halfway through my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u21	Mr. President. I was in his last talk to discuss the work of Pálmi Sigurjónsson, which he wrote at Iceland's University nearly two years ago, in October 2018, where he crosses grounds, business, expenses, traffic forecasts, and projections. In his essay, he says that it is natural for the taxpayers to have opinions on this matter, which is very costly. What's interesting, Mr. President, is the basis I was considering in my last speech, i.e. Grounds for the use of people in public transportation. This report shows that the criteria given are that the proportion ratio will be 12% increased by 2040, thus increasing from the current 4% to 12%. He thinks this is optimistic, and I agree with it because the last nine years have already been attempted to increase the share of public transportation and have made significant money of it, and no results have been made. The share of public transportation is still 4%. But here it is assumed that the object of public transport will be 12% after 19 years, i.e. This will be tripled and more than doubled until 2030, for the next nine years. Then the object of public transportation will be up to 9%. How are we gonna get this? What does this have to do with people? People are going into electric cars now. Is it reasonable to assume that the family car will be less used when perhaps 30% or half of the capital population will be in electric cars? That the use of automobiles will be reduced? I think this is a very optimistic projection that assumes that the object of public transportation is from 4% to 12% in 19 years. This is amazing. You're counting on your dreams. They have some kind of dream vision, and then they just figure it out. This, of course, is a well - known and kind of Icelandic method of building throws that happen to self very soon. I make serious comments to this, and I've made it a dozen times that people are in some fantasy world, and the taxpayers are made to pay for it. I'm totally against it. This is incorrigible. Then we're going to the cost of operating. According to this report, what is the city's cost? One author calculates the cost of operating. The cost of a city line is estimated to be 4.7 billion a year. Do people realize where they are going, and what income public carriages have been in the last few years? I'll tell you. The income was 1.6 billion in 2015, 1.8 billion 2016, and 1.8 billion 2017. What were the expenses of the public carriages in recent years? 6.9 billion, 7.3 billion, 7.7 billion. The income is hardly worth more than a quarter of the cost of operating. Yet, there are plans to add to this new system, to keep it old, and to add to the new system that will cost 4.7 billion each year. Is there a complete adventure like the city councilman of Independence and their point here in Reykjavík, Eyþór Arnaldur, in an article in the Morning newspaper a few days ago: It's an incredible adventure. Then the bus business and city line will be about 12 billion a year, and the income's 1.8. [[The president calls.]] Who's going to pay for this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u22	Mr. President. As everybody knows, the city's Pirates are running transport. It's a mess, and that's where people get their backwards shovels and try to clean the fool with the handle. But it's very Thai, or traditional, we don't have to tell you, Mr. President, that already we have information about the bill, which we're discussing, and we middle-class people have talked about something, it comes up that sometimes happens when we take time to discuss complex issues and take time to discuss new information, Mr. President. This time it is presented with information that this bill is expected to fail to pass a law on the order of public projects. It has been described by members of the Pirate Party that an expert with a budget committee last night, a high court attorney and an accountant, is an expert who was well - experienced and unambiguous. It's a natural habit, Mr. President. What happens when you sew with this? This class has been published for being white, like just around the world, against any corruption and wish to analyze them fully and carefully all the rest except, Mr. President, not so much now, not right now because now we are discussing a bill that could be in a gray area, if we can put it that way, Mr. President, because it's going under government law. And what happens then, Mr. President? Then a senator named Porta will take the role of a good person from the Book of Tinna, or Fine Væla Veinólínó, who comes here to argue that he was never brought up. This is quite strange, Mr. President, or not. This is just typical of this group that's going into the packaging, empty, non-employment business, except for now at the Piranha Party at the General Assembly. He has the duty to protect the consumption of transport in Reykjavík, which is now to reach a climax if this bill is approved and if the Independence Party decides to finance the wildest dreams of Porta and their followers here in Reykjavík to set up a road drive we don't know what we don't know how to do, which we don't know the cost of running because of, Mr. President, it's starting at the wrong end. It is being scraped here because initial research has not been carried out that is mandatory under the law on public projects, neither is cost analysis. There's no plan. Hv. Spent of Reykjavík, whose name is, if I recall correctly, Mr. Hrafnkell Ásólfur Proppé, said: 'It is not time to plan a business plan.' When are you going to do that, Mr. President? Should it be done only on the day when the first city tour, or what this is, will start? Are they going to work out plans for what it costs to run the battery? Mr. President. It's all backwards. It smells like corruption. It's omnipotent, it can be against the law. It's bad and it's scrambling, and it's all offered to the Pirate Party. This is what Pirates want to cover for us. This is what they want to accept. They want to approve. This is what they want to do. This is what they want to do despite the ultimate cost and despite the risk of falling into the ground with other laws. Pirates are not sacred at all, Mr. President. I haven't quite finished this point, so I'm asking the president to put me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u23	A respectable president. I'm still asking questions about the costs and the arrangements for all of this that I believe are too vague. This may also be the case in relation to the high cost of those who present this case during the council and who are responsible for it, too, in the rural communities around them. Much is involved in making the private car, the family car, difficult for. It is particularly interesting to see how these so - called blue rural communities, in which the proselytists, along with the candidates in some parts of the country, have directed their communities, have fallen by the social art of society, which prefers to get the private car away. This is an act of anger, and it may explain that the independent party at the council intends to go this way. However, it is the cost that makes it possible for us to call for information and talk about it. We want specific aspects of the case, but not necessarily this responsibility, this trend that seems to be in the political category, especially the independent group and the forward. This has become so that between the number of classes it has become clear. It is best that we in the Central Party try to be something different than all the rest of the classes. Of course, it is our responsibility to ask these questions. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson did well over certain double - skind here in the language of some. If it is so that the total responsibility of the state's funds by this agreement all, the society and everything that hangs on it, is at 105, 110, 115 billion, and you wonder if this risk is justifiable. I say no. It is not based on the available data. Then you will wonder if any of these projects, such as transportation, are particularly dangerous. What is to be done in the family car and the like to go on, because it is obviously not clear that it will go through the city's likely attempt to prevent it by any means possible and by a waterway. However, the 50 billion remain, or whatever it is that the government is going to put in a city line. In the past, I have mentioned in my talks that experience with such projects is that they are getting ahead of schedule. Why shouldn't that happen here too? As a result, experience teaches us that our assignments are carried out. We've seen the mayor's greater part now particularly carelessly about such things, and we're surprised that the more things are really going ahead compared to the city's financial status and all the scandals that have existed around the financial government. I remind you of an example from Norway, I think it was in Stafirri, where it was supposed to be laid, there's nothing wrong with it, people went to create a city line of some kind that was supposed to cost 50 billion, I think it was, ended for two hundred and something billion, 50 miles or 60 miles if I didn't remember. The kilogram was supposed to be over a billion, ended up somewhere between 3 billion and 4 billion. So it is only hope that we who are concerned about the status of the Kingdom treasure will only stumble and want to know what responsibility it is. If these 50 billion as a government fund are going to make a commitment in this, it will turn out to be 150, 200 billion, there is just another situation. This scenario is different, especially in modern times, since we hope that the government fund will fail, of course we hope that we will return to the state's debt and all of that. But as today's situation may seem, a recession, and not necessarily a fix in the next few years, it is very important to try to pay for such unregistered expenses. The situation is not being carried out today, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u24	A respectable president. When the president stopped me earlier in the middle of a sentence because the time was over, I was coming to one of the more interesting details of this contract as to the assessment of its influence. However, the section on impact assessment says, with the permission of the president, here is this point involving the real estate society: Then the land of the State will be assigned to the people to the club, which will be assigned to care for the development and sale of it. All the rest of the country's sales will run undelivered to the project on the construction of transport in the capital area. And then there's: If the abduction becomes less than 15 billion dollars. the state will ensure that at least 15 billion dollars. before the completion of the period. If the proceeds are to increase, the amount beyond that amount will be added to the project in addition to other contributions or to reduce speed and traffic costs. In other words, Mr. President, if this valuable property does not result in the 15 billion, e.g. If that was the way the organization was, or the situation in the economy, as we now experience, developed so that the 15 billion would not bring back the land, then the government will ensure that it will make up for lower prices than if conditions develop to make the land more valuable and more possible, there will be no money for it. It slips into the project. Is it only hope, Mr. President, that people are beginning to wonder if the agreement on which the bill is based and the bill itself is, therefore, a law on public finances? Next says in this chapter or shortly thereafter: The transport contract is expected to include quick and traffic expenditures in a specific legal format to support part of the funding of the project, or about 60 billion dollars (netto) - this is now an important factor, 60 billion net. The cost of setting up all of this is not worth the fee. - - --Elevens intended to deliver stock, financing, and secondary costs. So it is about to suggest that there will be new fees in the capital area and others coming here, probably to the end, but the question is, Is this really the town's management plan? Is the reason why people don't even have to put together a strategy for this enormous expensive project that authorities see to themselves that they can simply collect from road users who are needed to support their income and tax returns so that it doesn't matter whether the project is in any way profitable or how much money it will cost, the state can always look into taxpayers' pockets to keep it going, and thus make it a lifelong problem, an eternity of the taxpayers. Then, of course, there is that those who pay, i.e. Pay these fees, are just the people who don't make use of the service, and there's one of the things that are very peculiar in this account, the politics behind it, that they seem to have suggested that those who don't use the service, but instead of increasing traffic charms, should pay it out to the infinite, and therefore not even have a plan to run. Those trapped in their cars after hardships will pay what is needed to keep it going. I'm asking a respectable president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u25	Mr. President. I was going over the city line, and I was reading to you, and I was doing a report from Iceland's University by the Pálmi Sigurjónsson as he reviews the national economic benefits of the city line. This is a very interesting essay where he reviews how much this will cost and how it will be run, the cost of this, the cost of operating, and the time line. I had already noted that it is interesting that the city's representatives assume that the object of public transportation will go from 4% to 12% to the year 2040, and the writer of the essay says it is optimistic. I can totally agree with that. This is optimistic. Of course, it is not always possible to calculate in this way, that everything will work well, and everyone will take the bus after 19 years. Of course not. We just can't take the taxpayers' money so lightly. It just doesn't work. We have to do better. The public's tax money is not to be around in this way. I considered the current cost of operating, as shown in this essay. Actually, I don't sell it any more than I bought it, but the essay says that public cars, the bus bus, have been 7 billion and closing in 2017. I don't have any new numbers, but I've spent 400 million per year, between 2016 and 2017, raising the budget by 450 million. And what have the fares gone up at the same time? During the financial expenditures, Mr. President, the cost is rising by about 450 million. In other words, the cost of about 450 and the fare by less than 70. And it's still to be injected. According to this essay, the city line will cost each year, the cost of operating according to this report, with a writer's assessment of it of 4.7 billion. This is added to public car expenses of 7.8 billion. And there I have two-year figures. We are talking about the cost of public carriages may reach more than 12 billion when the city line is making its work, 12 billion, and the income is now approaching 1.9 billion. Of course, they could increase with a more powerful system than we are talking about 10 billion dollars. loss every year. Where are we headed? It's only supposed to be approved here at the General Assembly, and all classes are going to love it except the Central Party. We allow ourselves on behalf of the taxpayers to argue on this and to talk about it and reveal and let the truth come up on the table. This is totally unassigned, unassigned, and particularly unexplored how the business becomes, how much the losses will be, how much will cost each year, and who will pay the bill. Will car owners be taxed here in the capital area, or will their fare be increased? This has not been over.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u26	V.E.G. President. Yeah, the senator's here for the search. It may be hard to lose such a thing as the one standing here, but anything can happen. V.E.G. President. I was there in the last talk, where I was talking about a law about the order of public projects. It is clear, in my opinion and in the Middle Ages, that according to them, this preparation has not been right, since our conclusion is that it has started backwards. There is no primary concern, management or operation plan. I'm gonna come in to 3. in the bill we're considering here, the bill on clearance to establish the official transport infrastructure community in the capital area. It says in the 3rd. par.: To maintain funding for the construction of transport timber in the capital area. So it's the job of the club. B-joints: To perform a comprehensive schedule and a risk management programme. C- teams: To supervise task coordination and evaluate priorities. D- team: To follow up on the necessary change in planning programmes So there's some sort of offer into my country's personal rights, even though I'm not a lawyer, but that sounds like it. The E team says: To collect quick and traffic charges in the capital area, it will be determined by the law to lay on such charges, and to build up the wood of such collections. F- team: To manage the development of a country that will be submitted to the company with the aim of achieving a critical limit on its value. So there's a lot of power and a big one. I was discussing a law on government projects earlier, and here came why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear answers. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson spoke of this meeting yesterday that was interesting, and it was all fine, and so on. I think it's interesting, because it's got some of its own. A senator spoke a lot about the need to act on official financial laws. I don't blame him because there are laws written here in 2015 and I'm always a little better at developing into Generalis's work, and they're agreeing with them, and I'm fine if you're above the fact that they're under law. But since men like hooves. A senator is still in it, I think it's a quick mistake, when it comes to the comment that action plan, initial thought, and management isn't the way it should be, that it's all right. It tells me that the Piratars just want this to go through no matter what the case is being held. So far, the Piranians are in the city, and they're talking about it, and they've ordered this case and they want a city line. I feel that there's a bit of good work to be done, as Pirats talk about, and they also say that we shouldn't have anything willing and so forth. However, this aspect of the city line is completely willing and must be fixed and done better and later. V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u27	Mr. President. I'm just gonna grab the ball from the last speaker, okay? paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson This is, of course, an amateur, and here we have a Supreme Court attorney and a legal accountant who visited each other. Last night, a legal committee told how this case is going to conflict with a law on the order of public projects. They are No. 84/2001, Mr. President, which is a law against how to proceed. There are four factors, original thinking, plan, practical implementation, return evaluations, and the most damaging of all is the fact that none of these are available. According to a law of quotations, the report on the Law says that there should be a set of options, and these plans should be twofold, according to the Law. This, on the other hand, is a set of budgets and a annual budget, including loan costs and income, if appropriate. This is what we have been calling on here in these discussions, members of the Central Party, and it further states that the basis for the choice of the option of the person being taken, including the economic accounts used in comparison, should be reported. That is exactly what we have considered. There is no comparison of options. There is evidence to suggest that an environmental engineer, not only is there Jón Jónsson in a town, an environmental engineer who wrote an article about this phenomenon, this so - called city line, at the core of March 2018, where he claims that it is possible to reach the target of public transportation by defending the case of several billion, not tens of billions of people as presented here. Depending on the occasionally high cost of construction, it may come to an end of hundreds of billions. Another word for what is sometimes called profit or profit analysis, and that's what I have, and that's what I have. The members of the Central Party, a number of times, would be necessary. None of this is available, and it is also appropriate to consider the laws of strategy. It is assumed that the public projection programme should be in two formats, on the other hand, the complete printing and technical description of the project planned, etc., and a management plan, reaching at least five years after completion of the procedure. There is no schedule for this enormous and expensive project, no management plans, and maybe there is a reasonable explanation. Perhaps the explanation is that humans do not rely on a strategy that will without any doubt show a major loss. There's no other way, it's just predictable. It's impossible that such a strategy will show a major loss. Then there's the other, like a bang. paritaprevir In his last speech, Davíð Gunnlaugsson traced, that the plans are very simple that taxpayers here in Reykjavík and in the capital area, and others should pay for it with so - called speed and traffic charges, and that is just an open bill on taxpayers' pockets. So this case is in its core just taxation bill and, like, a what? paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson's son is so thorough and thorough, the people sitting in traffic jams who are primarily paying for it because there are only 4◯5% who are using public transportation and despite a great effort to increase that proportion in the past nine years with a high cost each year has not been able to increase the share of the difference. So, all you guys sitting in traffic jams, you can just pay for this ridiculous mess. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I'm asking to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u28	Mr. President. I'd like to proceed with this new news last night that we received any doubt that the bill we're dealing with here is a law on the orders of public projects, No. 84/2001. Now, we generals and members of the council are facing serious legal challenges. We are under obligation to do that work with as much affection as we can, and with as much responsibility as possible. To that end, we need the best information at hand, and we also need time to consider the issues we are working on. In recent conditions, some too fast have gone through the council, but no one in itself protests because the situation is the way it is and the present government opposition has shown a great deal of responsibility in its work. But here we have a bill in our hands, Mr. President, which has nothing to do with the health conditions that have not been established here, and in itself there is nothing to follow that this matter is quickly resolved here at the council. Says 3rd. the Act on the Order of Official Action, by permission of Presidents: A study of Frumat is made, and comparison is worth the solution to the needs of those to be met. The report on primary analysis shall include practical strategies. These programmes should be two-fold, one-way target cost, including the cost of planning, and the annual budget, including the annual budget Credit costs and income, if appropriate. The report shall address the reasons for selecting the benefits of the item taken, including economic accounts used in comparison. In addition, the analysis of primary checks should include suggestions on location and size, as well as cell fats for the proposed implementation, as appropriate. A basic study is conducted by the local Ministry, the State Department, the local community, or other prospective owner. Here we are talking about the government's duty, Mr. President, who's going to contribute 75% of the cost needed to get this screw up and none of the things I thought were done, nothing. There's no elemental thought. There are no properly planned budgets, let alone the cost of operating. They don't exist. There is no evidence available on this or comparison or any of this project and others, as is to be done because there is no evidence in the bill on the comparison of projects. It's just a decision. It's missing, for example. all the income forecasts, so all of this is a masquerade. The strangest thing, Mr. President, is what the group of people say that it is the most urgent thing to do in perpetuating state for all the decisions made by the General, that all the best information is available, that they have become extremely familiar with the project. This is so important that they have written articles on what the Council sucks in this regard, that it fails to meet these criteria, and that it is pushing the law through at tremendous speeds without anyone being aware of it. But now, Mr. President, it's all right to do so because the authorities in Reykjavík are Piratar. So, while we're at it, Mr. President, while we're in that situation, it's all right to go through here with things that are badly tore up, badly designed because it's convenient for the Pirates now. [[The president calls.]] I'm not quite finished with what I was going to say about this, so I'm asking the President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u29	There have been letters received from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made to provide written responses to the requested application. 1540, on sleep guard health risks, from Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, and on the icicle. 1514 about the number of employment applications, from Jón Gunnarsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u30	A respectable president. I'm here making a change to the bill to legalize the social security law, No. 100/2007, half my pension. We're on 2. The law of the law suggests that instead of a total of 2,977,260 bucks. into a team 3,081,468 k, and in a different place replace the sum of 1,488,630 in the b-join 1,540,734 k. - I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u31	A respectable president. Just as in the bill itself, there is no assessment of the effects of a government fund, such as public financial law, that it should be followed by government primes and the changes made by committees and the like. I wanted to know by reason of it. A senator's opinion of the exact impact of this amount and the change in state funds would have on the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u32	A respectable president. I may not have accurate information about the situation, but this has been taken out, and committees well reviewed these points under public financial laws and felt that they did not have the impression that there would be a change in this bill. These proposals focus only on the fact that these amounts were based on the year 2019, since the bill was distributed last year, and they are being changed to update these figures according to the price change over the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u33	A respectable president. The largest part of this committee discusses the cost of our lunch, with a ratio of between 100 to 300 million. It's a very wide range of costs that would be better in the present situation to have a little more accurate. We're going to a huge angle with a government fund, and each million is important, and it's good to keep it that way behind our ear when we make decisions about funding decisions, trying to get a little better with the expense and planning. I see that making changes doesn't make a lot of money, but we still have some 100 to 300 million on top of it. Maybe it'll go up to 110◯330 or something like that. Who knows? But the assessment does not appear in the bill itself. This is where the Commission presents a very gross cost assessment, and you wonder whether people take that part of government law to be serious enough. In any case, based on my experience with a financial committee, there is a relatively great need.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u34	A respectable president. I don't have the opinion of the committee in front of me, but it was found that there is a natural-known group, a known size, that uses this now, half a pension. There could not be more accurate data on how large these changes would be. But in order to meet the purpose of the bill, we would not be putting our arms around the original group. That's why it was different. What this large group was not known, but it was estimated as far as it could be, so to achieve the objectives of the bill and the goals of these laws set a few years ago, this is what it was done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u35	A respectable president. I just want to come up here and say that it was necessary to bring new numbers on this case and about this wide cost assessment, which is very normal because it must be very difficult to calculate the cost of this. I don't think there's any cost of the change, and the reason is that there's tax pay on it and all the other things that go against it that make me think the government's money is gonna make money out of it. And what may also be the best part of this bill is that there we are adding it tremendously from what used to be closed when it was mostly needed and at the lowest wage. Now they are inside, and those at the highest of the prizes cannot benefit from it and receive pay from a government fund of up to 155,000 dollars. Even though they made a million dollars. So it's all for the better, and I really support it this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u36	Mr. President. An adjustment proposal has been made to update numbers in the bill that proved to be old and out - of - date. It is now good for us to correct wrongs in matters that are not more complex than these, so that is a great improvement. But about a question why. paritaprevir The son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, was then completely justified. This bill is very positive. It's a good thing to get this warrant for half a pension, but unfortunately, the law was not followed by this bill so that in all respects the cost of a government fund would be determined by this bill. There is, of course, another sign in the Senate that we just cannot agree to be acceptable, just not at all. We really don't know what the cost will be. We don't know yet, but we're still finishing this. We agree on the positiveness of this arrangement, but there were many concerns about this arrangement, which would be most beneficial and which are the main ones left behind, or which cannot be fully absorbed. Of course, it's in this macropolitic language, such as talking about the social security system, talking about the pension fund, and, of course, it's something we should take a whole day to talk about. What's the point of our social security system and why do we have a pension from a social security system for them, e.g. who don't need it? Or should we have the social security system so that it pays for everyone and the pensions will settle on top? Of course, this is a macropolitical language that we should take time to discuss in the Senate Hall, but unfortunately we do not have time to do so. We're allowed to take a half of a pension, and I think everyone must see that it's the future, especially when we're looking at a change in society and to the fact that we're living longer, and our profession is different. In some cases, it is no longer a policy of finishing some school, either using a high school or a student's test or a possible university test, taking a job that only happens to be in the field of employment, and getting some gold done well. Rather, it is possible for people to have a much more varied range of jobs, and because of the variety of jobs, there is more potential for them to slow down and slow down the work. This is really what we should discuss. While this matter is being taken care of, we should discuss flexibility at the end of the work, i.e. flexible age at the end of the procedure. Unfortunately, there has been no attempt to resolve a case. A global and educational committee designed to allow higher lifetimes at the end of their career. Because I think with this changed arrangement, we should totally handle it. I agree with what happened. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. We need to be more careful, especially when we are making a decision on public funds. Well, it's better if we deal with the bill of the bills and we agree here at Congress, that we ourselves take a good example and follow the law, I think it's a minimum of the law to the law. Of course, the union supports this bill and the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u37	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here and talk briefly about this bill that's positive, because here we are taking important steps and timely by allowing half a pension. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir in terms of legalization and now must admit that it is my experience in these early steps of this job, which is interesting and sobering, I would say in the process, to get to know what kind of primes in certain cases are going through here. In this case, there is a change that obviously carries a certain cost, but we do a little blind to the ocean with who it is. Generally speaking, I would also say that it would work with her, and in general, we would be more likely to reach the goals to be set if the discussion was to be more, better, and more mature. Well, maybe just to the point. I cut by what comes, for example. by the older citizen's National Association, who is happy for this matter, that it is, of course, the condition of the trial and requirement, that there be an opportunity to slow down in later years and even in some cases simply to work longer. Of course, as we have seen, a career is different from that of some decades ago, and natural evolution allows people to be enabled, because we live longer, to slow down and slow down, when they acknowledge that there are certain aspects of life in which to live. So I think the steps the score has with the bill in this regard, i.e. a warrant for the take of half the pension, be of the good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u38	A respectable president. It's the best thing to do, but there are a few things I still want to draw attention to, as noted earlier. This administrative bill has not been evaluated, but the official financial law says exactly, by permission of the president: ▪ Each minister should evaluate the effectiveness of a diploma, including For financial gain, before they are presented to the government and the Council... There are other factors to consider, as is said of them. This is of utmost importance during the entire treatment of the council, especially since the Council is now with the legal authority and needs relatively detailed data and information in order to make better financial decisions on the European Commission. I was to form a relatively recent question about the legal projects of various institutions and the like, and the answers that have come up so far have been of great interest. It came, for example. But the hospital could not answer the cost of keeping him out, which I find extremely interesting at the end of the day. Why does the hospital not know? Of course he knows. If he knows, why doesn't he answer? It's something. This is part of the fact that if we're to work as a trust fund, the information we're going to need is accurate. It is therefore a law to evaluate the influence and especially the financial influence of a head of the administration when it is considered by the General Assembly. Then, when it comes to financial and financial planning, we know that, yes, this is because the bill we were agreeing on during the past council costs it a lot, and it has this effect in the next budgets Enlightenment decision-making in this regard. Other than that, this bill is an increasing rights bill and a measure of flexibility and other groups that get in there and nothing but positive to say. However, there is one thing I would like to discuss, which I find very relevant and always necessary when discussing pensions. The pension fund we're committed to is actually only half the pension we collect. The other half is a home without debt when we go to pension. If people don't have a debt roof over their heads when they go to pension, they just can't afford to live their lives on a pension fund unless they had a much higher salary in their lives. But in any case, it is a rule that when a person receives a pension fund, he has to have a home without debt. This is in the big context of something that needs to be considered, because now that people start to take half of their pension earlier, they definitely affect the maximum amount of pension they get paid out of their lives instead of postponing a pension. From the point of view that says this is also a very interesting case, and not something that should necessarily be self-important to each person who has the potential to exploit these rights, since if the person is still paying off a home or like it or living in a rented house, in the greater context, perhaps nothing is necessarily tailored. But as I say in this matter, there is a particular flexibility and possibility, which definitely comes from useful to a particular group and is only positive in saying so. But I still miss this section on the impact of food. The committee certainly recorded the matter and asked the question to force the authority to comply with the law. The information presented in this article is about 100◯300 million, which is quite broad, saying a large hole there. There is a very big difference between 100 and 300 million, even in the larger context. I don't even see how this would be just about 100 million and what would make the cost up to 300 million. It is only natural that the Ministry would explain better when we receive these scenarios or the cost analysis instead of what you really feel is being done after all, that it is simply a guess. What I find very interesting about most of the subjects that we receive into the council is how accurate our guess is. At least there's always a little big guess that comes with the assessment of things. The latest and worst case is an assessment of the impact of the sharers - I'm confusing those words, assuming that the cost of getting part - time work, part - time improvement, would be nearly 800 million and nearly 30 billion. It jumped from less than a billion to 30. After all, we are in a part - time way closer to 40 billion, 30, and something billion, who hopefully will not be fully used and who, of course, hope that evolution will not be needed, that it will not be fully used by that reason. That's why assessment of the impact of the bills is so important. We often find that laws take effect as soon as budget costs are not readily available, but at the end of the year, these extra expenses are provided in the budget. If evaluation of these effects fails, such as with the pay, with the increase in cost from less than a billion to less than 30 percent, it has a huge impact on all other government affairs, and we are about to become committed to making the Constitution very clear on these payments. There is nothing to be paid out unless there is a warrant for it in financial or financial matters. The theory has been that there can be a legal search for financial provisions that have been established in the past year. It's such a set tradition that has developed and is really bad because the attempt to make an assessment of the effects of an executive project is expressed in the bill itself, creating certain conditions, certain financial restrictions in this matter, and the changes in the law. It is, in fact, a kind of preparatory for the council when a bill is accepted as a condition for the forwarding of the bill. When the European Commission violates the requirements for cost assessment, it will be much more difficult to explain that we can just get the money remaining in budgets. The decision to accept these changes is definitely to be informed by the council's decision that at least this part of the year, the next year's budget will be adopted for the overall year. There's a preordained warrant, so it's okay to run a technical run in the budget. However, when financial resources are so much over the budget, it is becoming quite questionable with the Constitution, that this is how much pigs can be treated, as was done with the salary problems in Covid. This bill, hopefully, is not of the magnitude, and it does not appear technically that it can be run far beyond it, but it does show the need for assessment. And not only the evaluation is there but the decision made by the council as to the cost of the European Commission's legislation on this change so that if something goes out of hand over something, let's say, for example. The stupid reference to an article - that was the bill on older citizens about a year ago that was cited in the wrong article, all of which fell, costing 2.5 billion a month. Suppose something like this went through the eye of the check-up. It can happen. We're human, we make mistakes. Of course, we try to do as little as possible, but such things happen, and this is a kind of defense against it, the financial defence. If that law had been a legal arrangement, it could have weighed against the mistakes of the reference and would have explained the total legal rights. According to the Constitution, it is simply not possible to pay off money that is not allowed for financial or financial contributions. If we were to be better at this, perhaps we would not always be experiencing the enormous expense that we have seen in recent years because of a prime projector who has flown through the council in short periods and so forth. It's just a matter of making sure that you simply apply the law. There is a reason why these laws were set up on public financial matters, and it is only very important to apply them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u39	A respectable president. We're gonna discuss cases that concern half the pension. I think it's important on this occasion to discuss just how this pension system is basically thought. Before the election, Piratar and I talked about cutting down the pensions of social security altogether because of business participation, and at that discussion there was a very interesting viewpoint, mainly from the highest level of research. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, in fact, but of course others too, and it was the idea that people should not be given money from the social security system unless they need it. This is understandable to the view. The global insurance system was thought that way when it was established, and it has been thought of this ever since. This, however, is a thought that we should reconsider when we see an opportunity to make a better system, especially when a better system could allow people to enter a job market that would otherwise not get into a job market, and in the second, a very small amount of money would be paid from a wealth or even nothing. That's the way it happens. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson asked a question during the last term that offered very interesting answers about the cost of losing the social security pension due to employment participation. The cost turned out to be about $1.1 billion or 1.5 billion, and I can't exactly remember if it was. That would mean that people who receive a pension from the social security system could go and earn what they want. Now, all we know is that once we reach our age, our working skills will always be reduced. That's why there's even The social security system, the pensions of the social security system and the pensions and all that. It's not just because people want a pleasant night of their lives. It's also because many people can do less work, of course, they are very busy, we have very different problems, and we have very different problems. But often older people have a lot of skills that are out - of - date and that these older ones want to use but find that if they start using their talents, they usually have less security, they may have more talents that they can use for a career and more in life that may get in the way of making full use of their strength. For them alone, I find it perfectly normal for us to support these people. The same is true of disability. It is not necessarily a matter of proportion, it may be just a matter of question. There may not be a more diverse group on earth than a poor person would think, at least with a greater variety of them, that's perfectly clear. Some invalids can work in a certain field, but they have little security, longer work, and I can guess that there is a tendency to pay them less pay without my specific research. Therefore, if people are working because if we don't, we're supposed to take away the basis for trying, and this is part of what is sometimes called a poverty trap. It's that people get something from the state, something from public insurance, all too little money, as has been complained for years, especially since collapse, after the changes I'm not going to recall here, they've been recollected, when a connection was removed and the system changed very much. People get some money from the government, and that's not enough, so they may want to increase their income only by working a little bit, and in the case of an invalid in front of a penny. I want so much to take care of now. An independent group would think that way to the end, this crown versus a dollar. It's natural. It's insane. It is not a question of what we think is wise to repair the financial resources. It is not logical to have such a degree that there is no pay for work, that people will not be paid for it. More than that, such a decrease can even be more than a dollar in favor of a dollar. I'm sure somebody's gonna be able to believe. It is now that there are a number of support for the sufferer and that reduces the amount of taxable income available to the person so that when the person starts to work and receives taxable income, the support is reduced elsewhere. You see, it's the way of the social security system that there's not one small unit. It's a complicated, elaborate system, as it has become famous, but it is, fortunately, only simpler for the pensions after recent changes I appreciate have been positive, including. to destroy a crown against a crown. But when we have these systems, we don't have to think about them a little wide, not just some sort of spade and a little bit of wood here and there. We are to allow ourselves to rethink what has developed over the centuries, just to save and tap here and there, often with unknown or unpredictable side effects that greatly affect our system's self - confidence. The change in the pension system was in my opinion positive as far as I know it. Maybe new information has come up about what I don't know, but, of course, it was controversial in my time for a good reason. Although a cent was being taken away in return of the damage that was very good on its own, the foundation of the system was really slightly altered, and such fundamental changes rarely, possibly never, never, never occur at all. The bill always looks worse for some group, and we always have to take that into account. In fact, in my time I calculated how much it would take to change the numbers so that no one would get worse because of the higher income. I've forgotten the calculations, but I remember, there was something I could do about it. It could be done better, done more than was done without the loss of a government fund. Of course, this animal is a pack of paintings, and even slight changes can cost a great deal of money. That is why it is so valuable to make use of changes that do not cost much money, such as to eliminate the decrease in social security from employment. It does not take much money and replace labor labor and joy in people who enjoy using their workers. There are a lot of people like that, on the contrary to what some seem to think. Also, I cannot help but mention a phenomenon I don't know when to discuss, a respectable president, if not on occasion when these systems are being discussed. I don't know exactly when we'll be allowed to talk about big ideas except in a case like this, but that's civil pay. I realize that it may seem like a crazy idea at first, but I encourage people to study that idea well, and in particular, changes in ideas that reveal what they are from each and that are experimented with here and there. But I have to warn you about a little conflicting news, especially from Spain. There were recent reports in English that they took up the pay, so if you looked at the Spanish news, history didn't seem quite the same, so it's worth looking at. Such ideas are likely dependent on our having to do so somehow in small steps or in some sort of experiment. But these are ideas that could simply end all the complications of the social security system. Isn't that a yellow root, a respectable president? Is that not something we should want to do or at least consider seriously? At least I suggest it. I just wanted to come up here and have a few words about the social security system because we're discussing this fine thing, but I'm coming to describe my position on the matter in a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u40	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee party with a bill-changing proposal for the Power Fund, case No. 639, from a greater part of the work committee. The bill was referred to the Committee after 2rd. she has discussed it again. Reviews to the Committee presented a view that it is important that the legislation be added or in the Regulation to monitor the progress of projects or reporting, including in order to ensure transparency in the management sector as well as a professional discussion on the activities and activities of Energy Fund. In the treatment of the problem, information on how the fund works has been published in the annual report of the Energy Agency, including the Agency, has been published. for the progress of projects and projects that have been supported by the fund. At the same time, the fund's procedures are found on the web. A share agrees with the importance of the availability of information on the fund's activities. It is important that you set a clearer frame than in Article 8. The bill is authorized by a minister to discuss the activities of the fund in the Regulation. The majority agree with the perspective expressed in a paper with the bill that the content and format of the annual information provided in the Regulation should be discussed more fully. The same value as the authority to cancel credit money, but there must be a clear explanation of such sources in the Regulation. In the treatment of the matter, we noted that the bill is suggested to maintain the arrangement that has been provided for the fund for years. The majority points out that financiers are no longer published in Parliaments, not in budgets or financial programs, but only in a financial escort. As a result, the energy fund's income does not appear in financial terms but is still assumed to be publicized, as is the case with any law at Part A State Fund. With law No. For public financial reasons, 123/2015 was determined to adopt international accounting standards that influence accounts such as Energy Fund. The effect has not been fully established in the accounts at this time, e.g. on interest revenues. It is required to review it in a complete way so that the change in accounts will be consistent across state funds within Part A. The more part counts, to the above respect, therefore, not to suggest a change of 6. The bill, in the way it was done at 2nd. and therefore suggest that the article be spoken as it was when the bill was submitted. In view of this, more part of the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following adjustment: At 6. Addeth also the increase of the treasure. It's under the heading "Why." paritaprevir Director Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president of the United States, Mayor Fritítir Friðbertsson, Elíasdóttir Friidífjölífjörður Elissóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Ólafur Ísleifsson, Relafur Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlfófótir, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u41	Madam President. Like I crossed over at 2nd. this is no way to keep track of what was done with the Food Fund. When a professional health committee gave the matter about the Food Fund, she made sure that it was not only the management board that would determine how public funds were distributed from the fund to important projects but would also be a professional body of seven members with broad appeals in society, agents who would be able to get into the management of industry, innovation and employment, etc., just to ensure that these members are there and could provide viewpoints, i.e. that the Council of Ministers should consult with this council. So that's not part of this bill. They are not careful to listen to viewpoints or to any other party, such as the Food Fund. There are four directors in the Food Fund, of whom one is appointed as minister after the appointment of the Bavor Association, and another is designated by the seaside. So there are two executives designated by the agencies who need to work within the legislation. Then a secretary takes orders without a appointment and appoints the chairman, so a minister has, in fact, caused in this, but a view from the sector that is being developed and strengthened by innovation in the board itself, with two of the partners. Under the government there is such a subject where other viewpoints are presented to make sure that there are enough views when it comes to providing public funds for support for innovation in food production in Iceland. That's very good. So, of course, this government can look to more people for information and the more of them, to a certain extent, certainly. The more views that come to the table, provided it does not interfere, the better. Power fund is different. In again, public funds are being distributed, making sure that people are moving into more sustainable energy, making sure that energy exchanges are going to be successful. Energy fund has existed, but now it is being moved from the Power Institute to make it independent. The sea has been under the Agency all this time, and there are all sorts of professional opinions that need to be kept in place, the founding process and the operation of an energy fund under the Power Institute has been successful for a very long time, I can't remember how many years. Hv. A senator and chairman of the case, Njáll's Trausti Friðbertsson, spoke of the survival of about 100 billion, if I recall correctly. [[Up front.]] No, that would have been 80 billion saved at the time of that energy exchange. It's the thermal memory of it. So there are no small coins that have benefited from society. Today, this vital energy exchange is being moved into the purpose of this bill, as stated in Article 2. by permission of the President: The energy fund's hard work is to promote the economic use of national energy resources through funding or loans, in particular for reducing fossil fuels use and increasing the use of national renewable energy sources. This sustainable kick is great, very good, and the Piratars will vote for this. And it goes on to say in the book of Exodus. par.Unable to connect to It also supports projects that promote energy security and competitiveness in energy and energy related tasks on the basis of energy policy, innovation policies, regional policies and government policies on climate. Energy security, cool, and energy competitiveness too. But what if a minister orders men who may not necessarily be impressed with the competitiveness of energy? They may want to misplace their power and share public funds to the person who may not necessarily be thinking about the competitiveness of energy, may not be necessarily thinking about energy security, or that the projects are in the best interests of arguing with what is said in the law, and will not necessarily go through with the basis of energy policy or innovation or regional policies or government policies in climate. Perhaps there are tasks that do not meet best those requirements chosen rather than those of other distributions. And who's in charge of distribution? Yes, Ministers of Policy, Ministers appoint all three members to the board. So much of it made it possible to be qualified, but it's just a minimum requirement, to have proof of good conduct, and something like that. The minister decides the policy, he appoints these three parties, and the funds from the state fund, which is part of his role there. Then there are the three parties he commands. We're told they can communicate. But there is no need for them to do so. They'll probably do so, but they'll need to consult with Power Institute and possibly another party if there's a cause. And then what? Then they go through these applications and put something into practice with the minister, so this is completely within the family, and it offers moral hazard. And that's all I've been pointing out in this matter, that this offers a temptation. Can such a temptation be brought to a close? Yes, in part it can be reduced. The role of a Minister can be better framed on professional grounds so that other viewpoints can be found on how to distribute public funds to important projects in reducing fossil fuels and improving the use of national renewable energy sources, projects that promote energy security, competitiveness in energy and energy related tasks based on energy policy, innovation policies, regional policies and climate policy. The assignment is great, and the project is important. The project can play. If a minister is tempted, the job is wasted. Therefore, it is important to try to frame this so that a minister will less deal with this temptation problem, less temptation. This is why most of the object was struck on the 2nd round. In a chamber, that we would do exactly what we did with the Food Fund. Why should we be careful that the management of the Food Fund is not all organized by a minister, that it is also a part of the articles under it, fishing roads, and agriculture? Why is it important to make sure that in the Food Fund there are seven people's research advice so that more views will come to the table when it comes to sharing public funds for projects? Why don't we need this at the Power Fund? Is it more likely that professional views will be involved? Is it less likely that they won't find out? Or is it just so that people trust it more when they are sharing funding for projects that have to be used with increased use of domestic renewables? Increased funds are to be distributed to make use of renewable energy, such as the microinstalls or wind mills. Great job. But we know that political parties are in this business and want to go on these projects. What happens when they start applying for the Power Fund? What if they get assigned to the Power Fund and others don't? The little people who came before the committee pointed out that this is not a good arrangement, that it needs to be framed better. What will it look like when groups of the seafaring and agricultural ministers begin to extract from this fund? If there are later criticisms that there are others who should be getting from this fund, this project has been destroyed. So I want to ask you why. The bottom line of the matter, Njáll Friðbertsson: Why didn't he want the committee to do exactly what she did at the Food Fund, ensure that other views would come by the introduction of professional advice, securing a more professional perspective on the government? Why does it want to be? Don't you think it's a senator? He wants it, doesn't he? He wanted it with the Food Fund, so I believe he really wants it himself, but can't he? We did it to the Food Fund, and why? We did so on the grounds of the committee's opinion to make sure that more views could be reached. There are huge views that need to discover when it comes to the Power Fund. They're expanding the role. Don't global views need to be placed on the table when it comes to reducing the use of fossil fuels and additional efficiency of renewable energy sources, when it comes to energy security and competitiveness, energy related tasks on the basis of energy policy, innovation policies, regional policy and government policy? Is it enough, then, to have three members that a minister commands and exactly operates on his terms and only need to consult with the Power Institute and possibly anyone else if there is a cause? Is this how we really get a professional view of the distribution of public funds to all these extensive projects? I don't buy that professional and objective views need not be guaranteed in the process as agreed by all the committees on Food Fund should be cared for by other views to reach the table so that public funds could be handled in the process. But, hey. A senator and chairman of the case, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, has not told us why he does not want the same value as the energy fund when sharing energy with public funds for these vast and important projects, why not limit moral problems there, such as in the Food Fund, to the distribution of these very important tasks. What's the difference between the two? Why does it not have to be as careful about professional views as it would be to reduce moral problems when it comes to the Power Institute, as we did seven weeks ago at the Food Fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for his speech. I think there are many of us who can agree that this is the best of business, the Energy Fund and its role in promoting the practical use of energy resources in the country, especially when there are measures aimed at reducing fossil fuels use and then increasing the use of domestic and renewable energy sources that are very positive and require and in particular beyond that, it is necessary. I also find this fund's exciting project to be a contributing factor in increasing our competitiveness in energy sectors. We are to be on the road there, which is simply an eye - eye route. I believe that if we are able to fulfill this assignment, the benefits we will enjoy are not just by taking the lead in that important field and enjoying many benefits, but I think that it must also be out of the business of economic gains there in competitive countries. But then we'll get to it. A senator has been very powerful in criticizing the matter, and this is how order is being conducted in the board. I have to say, after considering the case, I'm not in this committee and I haven't followed things so closely, but it's surprising and I haven't found support for it. I may not necessarily be so pessimistic or realistic as a boy. A senator who speaks of temptation, though I completely agree that he is truly there. I simply miss ideas like that make sure that someone from the college community lives there or one of our best professionals who know best about energy. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's viewpoint on what he thinks is behind the discussion. [[The president calls.]] It simply leaves behind a question mark because it would have been so simple to take care of, it would not have worked in any way against the goals, not to interrupt anything. [[The president calls.]] Just this simple idea of identifying in some way what people on board the board need to have to carry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u43	President. Exactly, this wouldn't have cost anything if it wasn't for the seven people who were sitting there. What, though, does this same committee program say about the Food Fund, the same party and don't want to do this about the Energy Fund? It says, by permission of the president: ▪ There was some comments from visitors that it might be desirable to get a representative of more people in the management board of the fund. Sv. Stage four. 2 mg. 1st par. The bill is the management board of the fund. The Committee gave the view that with the approach most people can make sure that the wide range of knowledge in the world and that the most multidisciplinary cooperation of food companies has been used in the work of the fund. So it comes: The ◯Mei portion agrees with the importance of ensuring a wider eviction to ensure that the funds will achieve their objective. I studied my goals earlier, these are extensive goals. The energy fund's case really makes sense that there are more than three people who may need to talk to someone. Come on, with president's permission: ▪ In view of this, the greater part contributes to a change in the requirement that the management of the fund be given as many as seven professional counselors as four years of age. Presidency will be given to the management board to advise on professional matters and to give reviews on the disposition of funds as well as general advice to the management board on what she wishes. The majority of the items stress to include it will be in the right hand, like the wind. One senator noted that it is important - the opinion of the university community under the order of a professional council, as well as a look to experience and knowledge from the job world and to the pioneers and the innovations sector. Is it any less important to do this with the Power Fund than with the Food Fund? Of course not! It's just a temptation problem. The fact that the other part doesn't want to do this really makes me worry that there should not be any shut to temptation in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u44	Mr. President. I have to say, with all due respect for food of all kinds, and especially with all due respect for Icelandic food, that I think more public interest is dependent on our handling the issues of Power Fund. One of the best ways to make sure that such important work is, as we know, that transparency is there, and especially transparency in the way humans are selected, the way people are chosen to manage it. So I agree with you. A senator that's special. I'm wondering if I'm five. The bill, concerning the surveillance, that those who receive strength or loans should account for the progress of projects and financial arrangements, can, in part, be as an answer to concern over the watch section and the temptation problem, that there is something that is not tolerated by the daylight that humans can worry about. I'm more busy because they have no emphasis on innovation, on professional knowledge. I'm not minimizing the rest, but I'm a little there. I would've thought it was so set up. There is not enough emphasis on the object that is so important to us. Hv. A senator spoke of reviews that led to changes in the Food Fund. I know what you're doing. A senator's comments on this particular matter were in harmony with what was said about the matter? Did the information on how the government is organized come about? Is that something that's wrong? A senator knows and has discussed the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u45	President. There was a rumor that transparency had to be corrected. That's the main thing that came. The committee responded to what is good by fixing the transponder something. Transparent means, in effect, that it takes more to give in to the temptation problem, which in turn reduces it to some extent. That's good. In contrast, it needs to have the perspective earlier in the process on how to do this professionally in order to achieve the real objective instead of having three members to be appointed by the Minister himself, working by the regulations that a minister puts out himself, and sharing all this money, instead of having this well frameed in. It is not just up to seven people's best advice in the Food Fund. Rather, it is mentioned in the Committee on Food Fund, by permission of presidents: And the more important thing is that the management of the fund will be permitted to give more professional advice than one. - I mean, come on! - The more part, the equal law, is found in 1st. 13th par. track No. 75/2007.How can I help you? - That. The laws on official support for technology, innovation, and employment development. It's just so set up. Not being ready to do this, letting more views at the table, in such an immensely broad language that turns on such overwhelmingly broad goals, is a source of anxiety. It's climate policy, it's energy security, I've been over all of this, it's such an overwhelmingly broad-spector goals. And it is said that if any three parties feel that they need to, they can set more rules and conditions on how to transfer money between individual projects. They decide if they will. Transparent is good, and it's good to move in with increased transparency. But we know how this transparency is when it comes to the financial affairs. It's very bad for that brain, and even at the Council, we're getting bad information. Some day after that, they cook it up, and if the case doesn't get into the media, they think they can get away with it. On the other hand, if a person gets involved before he has succumbed to the temptation problem, he will not get away with it if there is a professional view of seeking ahead of time before the money has been replaced. [[The president calls.]] We know that very often people are willing to accept this and think, " We just do, and we apologize. ' [[The president calls.]] Instead of asking for permission, you apologize, or you just get away with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u46	Mr. President. We'll talk about Power Fund here, which is an interesting thing. He has been alive for some time and is now making good changes in many ways. I'd like to use this opportunity to talk only about some of the factors that I think are worth considering when we look at Power Fund in the context of the energy exchange projects and the like. It is worth noting to begin with that it has been an interesting trend in this government to practice what I would like to call a treasure, to make a fund around the rest, and this, usually some new funds, instead of using the old ones, and to put control over those who sometimes have much to do with the interests of ministers. I'm not sure that's necessarily a good development. I think it may be reasonable to some extent that there are specialized funds to care for specific tasks, but when the route is not taken. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, who makes some sort of trade around a fund, may never be used as effectively as possible. Even if we do not walk out on some sort of abuse that has been done well here, we are not just trying to prevent abuse; rather, we are also trying to achieve the effectiveness and usefulness of the once - in - a - case fund. I'll mention it because when you look at the budget, we'll see that this fund comes from a state fund about 33.1 million. K. every year. Based on figures from Energy Institute, the fund provides funding for various projects, typically between six and ten projects a year, up to a total of 20 million. K. plus or minus; 18 million in one year, 22 million in the year, about this amount. That means we're putting money on the budget to promote energy exchange, no less work than changing what energy source the entire Icelandic community uses, and it's supposed to be done for less than one-third of the Congress's annual salary. Of course, there are others who have funds and other tasks and tools that will also contribute to this goal. But if we look at it so hard, it's not an enormous amount. I don't even know what you can do for that kind of money, 20 million. K. You may be able to buy some mail and loading stakes for cars and something like that. But I think everyone can be quite clear that this is not what will change the energy supply that this country uses. This is not what will cause us to stop using fuel trucks or diesel generators and start using eco-friendly energy sources, and in some way it may not be our goal. That, however, stands in 2 gr. The bill, by permission of the President: It also supports projects that promote energy security and competitiveness in energy and energy related tasks on the basis of energy policy, innovation policies, regional policies and government policies on climate. It's four different paths like this 33 billion. K. This year, help. I think it's pretty much on these very few dollars. It's hard to see how important this is. There was a fine report on the bill from a company called Vallor. In fact, you've heard from them quite often over the years, and that's what they say there, when the innovation king and the support of innovation were taken out of the fund a few years ago. It's fine to see it coming back in. But as may be done elsewhere in the management system, there are new projects being added without any new funding being applied. Maybe there's something we should talk about under the budget, but let's just discuss it here. Let's say this in context because the new days were now being introduced and updated by the government's policy on climate matters that are to be addressed. Of course, in that direction the aim is not elevated, it continues to 35%, and in fact, only about 30% is spoken of, not 353/40%, as it was before. So it might be said that the goal was reduced. But okay, 35% decrease in carbon dioxide emissions per year. It's meant to be achieved by having lots of innovations, developing new technologies, doing lots of cool things. - And finance how? A total of 7 billion are spoken of as a result of this transformation, i.e. reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, 7 billion dollars. Every year, if I don't forget, which is, in fact, less than we usually spent every week here at the council while Covid was at the highest level, if you figure it out, including to finance it that companies could have people working without having to pay them, the state would just take care of them. I just can't see that it's working. We are in some way trying to change what energy source Icelandic society uses and at the same time try to be some kind of model for other countries around us. What we're offering from this project is well less than 1% of the budget, and we're talking about a fund that's supposed to work out from a novelty point of view, and from the point of view, financing projects such as heating pumps to the town of Hellissand hall, as it was done in 2018, or heating pumps at an Isafjörður place, or dinner pumps at a basic school in Langanesville. All of them were good projects, and thermal pumps are the subjects that I would like to discuss longer, they're just amazing. A few years ago, the lip pump that was installed in the Western Islands absorbs about 1 MW from energy, but it produces 4 MWs by taking heat out of the water, and that's just great. This is a far better use of electricity to warm the homes of the Western Islands. Such thermal pumps are being installed in many parts of the world, and it's fine that they are being financed from the Power Fund. This means that electricity production is less demand in many countries. They may not need for forts as they are, they may not need as many drills as they do for earth's heat. As a result, greenhouse gas emissions are reduced, so all of this is positive. But when we look at these projects, we are talking about small funds that do not cover much of the total cost to such projects that can easily run at tens or hundreds of millions, if not billions, in cases of larger thermal pumps or other energy plants. I don't see how this is going to work. Maybe this is supposed to be some kind of ambition, 33 million. K. and, in fact, 100,000 bucks. ... moreimpressedeveryyear. But I just can't figure it out, Mr President. But then, once you've taken all this ambition for them, it's like this bill, which is actually just nine articles that are mostly nice. There are some defects that have been corrected and that have tried to create a better foundation for the situation. All right. A paper with the bill describes the experience and knowledge that has been built up by Energy Fund and therefore needs to be considered desirable for a certain amount of space to hide energy resources from energy related tasks that are at any given time in line with the general government policy on energy issues. This need is, in fact, a legal arrangement now. But when you look at exactly what happens, there is only a three - man government that a minister decides and says that the fund should monitor all of this 33 billion. K. each year and actually naturally, the money that has been accumulated over the years. And yes, there should be some sort of surveillance, and people should write reports, perhaps using some of the money the fund has received to write reports, but the work at them usually costs as much as they got from the fund at first. I don't know what else to say about this, I think it's generally just that this treasure-flooring thing, and having incredibly small amounts of funds that have extremely little money but a big and important part in society, kind of leads to an environment where we can quite hope that the consequences and results will be extremely limited. I may be able to criticize this longer, but I'm going to stop here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm gonna start with what just started me coming up here. I'd like to assume that people like to handle the money of the state money, but I don't intend to cheat with it, as I sometimes feel the tone here is only. I believe, however, that there must be a clear penalties so that people are less inclined to succumb to the temptation to experiment with that kind of money in an unnatural way. I'd rather assume that people are behaving in a good way. In view of the fact that we are on a so - called future committee, where there is a why. A senator is just the head of the hall, and others in the hall sit there, I think, I wonder how these limited funds to the Power Fund, whether energy change or innovation or anything else, can benefit us in what appears in 2k. a role when discussing competitiveness. I'm trying to figure that out. Now we have a lot of scientists, a lot of smart people, people trying to create innovations, innovation projects that can help us to increase our competitiveness, whether in energy or machines and energy - related tools. I'm wondering, do we know something? Have we ever sat down and looked at what we need to put of money in the Energy Fund so that they can actually have another role they're supposed to have, to increase competition, to promote new projects in innovation policy and all the funds they're supposed to do? We know 200 million. K. or something like that is intended for energy exchange. How far do they go? How much can you do for that money? Hv. A senator mentioned some amounts of money. What really concerns me is how this is in harmony with what we have been doing on the future committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u48	Mr. President. Yeah, that's a good question. A senator on how this harmonizes with his work on a future committee. Until the day that Covid upset the community, we were on the future committee to discuss how we should react to climate change and, provided that we will achieve the objective of the Paris Convention, what would really come after, what we do. It is true that something will cost us to do that work, whether we reach the goals of the Paris Convention or not. That's even. To pretty good analysis that it will cost a lot more for Iceland and the entire world if we don't achieve the targets of the Paris Convention, just because it's going to cost a lot of money trying to fix the tragic consequences of climate change. It's just for people who look into the money instead of human life. Of course we have to be effective in this. You're right about what you're doing. A senator's goal is to make good use of the money, to set good goals, and to follow through on it. I have noticed that there are quite a few things in the current government to say that there are beautiful goals, but compared with that, it is extremely little to follow. A fund of energy is an example of this. It is setting amazingly large and cool goals, though a little fuzzy in certain ways, yet big and cool goals are still being set. But money to reach goals is not included. It doesn't matter how many reports we write in the future committees on the importance of energy change and so forth. [[The president calls.]] Without funding to do what needs to be done, we are simply not better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u49	V.E.G. President. That's exactly what I'm worried about. So I'm right about numbers and other things, I'm not right that, in terms of the budget, 200 million is actually expected. K. to energy exchange and 33.9 million. K. to Power Fund? In 33.9 million. K. is all that is in the Energy Fund according to a financial escort is now not fat enough to skin when it comes to sharing it out. I suppose, at least according to the evidence I find, it's those bills. But I hope to be corrected if this is more money. In 33.9 million. K. should be enough for anything the fund should do, more than the 200 billion. K. In the energy exchange, I think we on the future committee only need to consider the past if we are to take these steps to the full, as it were. A senator rightly pointed out. We want to look for ways to make better use of the energy we have. We want to look to the future and see what we can do to increase technology and innovation. How do we make this country more competitive? At least I've come to mean that in order to make Iceland more competitive, we also need to. building on the resources we have. Energy is part of it. Of course, we also need to build up the human race, to advance the educational system, and so on. To do so, we also need to turn people into, for example, people. things related to energy exchange, innovation and energy innovation. But then we must also be able to say that there is a future in it, the funds that can be built on, the funding for research, innovations, projects, to create prototypes, etc. As I understand this case, so I'm just saying it again because I think it's a pretty pretty fancy saying, not a fat piece of skin when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u50	Mr. President. I might start by saying I was wrong. Of course it's 33.9 million. K. but not 33.1 billion. K. This year's budget. It's corrected here. I hope that 800,000 guy's gonna be all right. The fact is, this 800,000, and indeed this 33.9 billion. At a rate, we will not have any fundamental influence on Iceland's competitiveness as we look at the knowledge that lives on the land of geothermal energy, activation projects, and, in fact, more. There's a battery company in Iceland that's doing great things. There are companies in Iceland that are using hydrogens and assessments and more energy sources in incredibly interesting ways. However, scholars who want to work at this need to spend 20 to 30% of their time writing their applications for funding or reports on the results of the sponsors they have received. It's not efficient. This isn't a good use of public money. I understand the importance of applying and follow-up. Otherwise, capitals may be badly spent, to people who have nothing to do with them. But we need to find ways to get the results to be the witness in some cases. There's one thing. The rest are 300 million. K. ... togo into energy exchange, and that's only 33.9 billion. K. ... thatgoes into the Power Fund. Actually, there is not even a complete harmony there. Where's the rest of it going? Where, then, did money come from, and in what way? I don't have that information, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u51	President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. He began with a case that I'm going to discuss a little later, i.e. how energy fund is useful and how it can be used for energy exchange, which is certainly an important project, as we have seen. But like a dog. A senator wondered: " Is this what will change our country's energy supply? Hv. A senator spoke a good deal about this 33.9 billion. K. which are an earmarked Energy Fund and may be a good thing to tell you that they are principally thought of business of, i.e. remuneration of employees, extramarital and management. As we have seen, money has also been placed in the stock market, I think last year has 250 million. K. were assigned to build infrastructure for electrical vehicles. Also there were 30 million. K. In particular, the ears marked hotels and beds around the country, and I think the fund did a good job in assigning them funds, ended up in Akureyri. But there is another matter and has nothing to do with his ability. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I wanted to ask you what. A senator in this context: There are four different paths. I hope they go together, hoping they don't speak against each other. But even though there's more money available, even up to half a billion, that I think it's right, that's natural, according to years, but isn't that all too little money for such an important project?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u52	Mr. President. Yes, of course it is. A senator, both that these 33 million are well-trusted for business, but also that it is the business I was referring to earlier on the 33 million, not the total fund. It is perfectly normal to ask about it. That might make me look a little silly. But okay, okay, that's just the way it is. But the other is that, whether we're talking about 33 million or 300 million or whatever, this is the Masafft project. It is an assignment on the basis of energy policy, innovation policy, regional policy and government policy on climate, and each of these projects contains billions of dollars of projects. I don't see how this fund can possibly do all this work, especially when we know that the fund's projects are big. We also know that the scope of energy exchange alone is far greater than that of this kind, and although we would take about 5% of the budgets per year for this, it would take decades to make it up. But with such funds and many other projects, they can take over forever. But if our approach is any other than our taking a lot more pride than we think that we need to do this - if we find the most strange, most unlikely projects, get people to justify it, explain their issues, and finance their projects so that they can possibly get something out of them - these are the multiple effects that we're always looking for in New World and in Iceland. I'm sorry, I've never seen any of these multiple effects exist, only to a small extent. Maybe I'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u53	President. I'm gonna pray. The senator, I was not at all, and it was very far from me, trying to make him look foolish. I really agreeed with him. And just so I corrected myself, too, the Power Fund is with about 25 million. K. Every year for distribution. He's had it the last few years. However, he has been used for such projects as this. Improving the isolation of houses, but it seems especially convenient to use the fund for such projects, possibly because of the expertise within the house, and in many ways it is very favorable to be as flexible as it really is to take on such projects. I'd like to ask you a later question. A senator of concern that has been reported in the news yesterday and today, i.e. The concern of the Land Protection and the Environmental Protection Agency of Iceland has resulted in a very ambitious aim for energy exchange in the government's new climate management programme, just very ambitious, but both Iceland's Land Protection and Natural Protection Association have expressed their concern that the measures are not sufficiently ambitious to achieve the goal. That's why I wanted to ask you why. A senator will agree with this, and he will see how to deal with it. Well, now, for example. ON did a great job in building a loading post. Would be a reason to activate other energy-related enterprises, such as Richard, to increase the number of loading sites around the country to allow more and more to be found locally?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u54	Mr. President. Yeah, I think you're right. I think the point of criticism must be that something is somehow being thrown out of nowhere. In fact, I have come up with some kind of sense of success, which I called for a long time. But in the overall context of the section, this is not quite accurate enough. Just so I'll take an example - excuse the sleigh, Mr. President: As a result of the expansion of deserts more than 20 million acres a year. It is a huge process that we somehow have to stop to make it harder to deal with climate change. If we were trying to reach it in enough power, we would, for example, be trying to get there. return to land healing flight. We would put more in forestry, but we would also use the energy companies available to help consumers, for example. Do what they already do; buy electric cars. In all, 1,700 new electric cars have been bought in this country this year according to numbers I saw a few days ago. These are cool numbers, and consumers are doing their part to stop greenhouse gas emissions. But somehow we must have the same rhythm on the part of the government as in government companies. If Power Fund had actually been able to do all these things, we would be in a much better position, and consumers could load their cars elsewhere. And maybe we can also see more forestry and more of other projects, which I know not directly related to forestry, but all of this hangs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u55	Mr. President. I'm here to discuss a little bill to legalize Energy Fund at 3rd. In fact, I wanted to start by thanking a professional professional executive, anyway. paritaprevir The son of Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson, for bringing the matter back after I mentioned it to him. It was found that we had been washed away in a committee study to consider comments, one from Landing and the other from the Society of Industrialism. And then I'd like to say thank you again, but thank you. The head of the committee for taking this into account and returning the matter to the committee. Although the decision was not made by the Committee to insert it as a change, it was highlighted in the committee opinion, i.e. the importance of stipulation to be set in the Minister's Regulation to ensure that information on the Agency's activities is readily available. It is true that the fund and its activities are always discussed in the EU annual report. I think it's important because the Energy Fund is doing an enormously important job and we can totally be proud of it. This is a nice fund, and his work is not only important to energy exchange but also, for example, to us. aquifers. Now I'm born and raised in Iceland where -- I'm going to start that sentence again. I'm not sure that those who were born and raised in Reykjavík or in Akureyri or in other places where hot water is to be found understand just how much gold the hot water is. It converts communities to find hot water, and it is extremely important for society to have access to hot water, not just to swim in it, but to warm up our houses, e.g. Therefore, objects such as energy funds provided by corporations, businesses or individuals are very important because if hot water is found, these conditions can be tolerated to put people in that location. When a person does not have access to hot water, other means must be used to warm up the houses, e.g. electricity or anything else, and it's considerably more expensive. I wanted to draw special attention to this, since I was born in Isafjordur, as I said before, which is in cold areas and where a number of times I have been searching for ice. In fact, in their last search, fever was found, but unfortunately, they did not find water that feels more convenient to go together. Energy reserve also provides another source of strength, often to these so - called cold areas, e.g. Because of the heat, as mentioned earlier. He provides strength to buy heat pumps as well as improved isolation homes. All of this is of utmost importance to those cold areas and those living there. The government is naturally responsible, and especially for us at the legislature and both the legislation and the financial authority, that people can live where they choose to live, and that is not made more difficult because the area is cold. I just wanted to talk about the infrastructure for the electric cars and the energy exchanges. How important it is that we keep our pockets in check! Power Fund is located in Akureyri. Though I said it half early in the morning, in contrast with what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy that the fund was located in Akureyri, I think it's a very good example of how easily things can be located not always in Reykjavík. In this case, we have really good experience. It's a trust fund that offers advice and works all over the country, and it doesn't seem to have the location dependent on it. It has also been evident how those who work at the fund have been very active in their community discussion of the importance of energy exchange, the loading stations, and the opportunities involved. I just wanted to take advantage of this opportunity and bring it to the attention. But back to the trucks. There have been interesting reports during the past few weeks in connection with the construction of infrastructure for electric cars. Now we've certainly taken a big step, let's say, in the construction of electric cars. Both of us have built a loading net around the country, which is extremely important, and as well as we have given grants to hotels and accommodations, which are also important and particularly important teams in making rentals available to divide their cars gradually and have more electrical vehicles so that it will be real for tourists and for those who rent cars to rent electricity cars and still drive around the country. And then I'll say what. Mccarthy Again, in his talk earlier, he pointed out the positive fact that the public takes this seriously. We buy electric cars, we join the energy exchange, so we do our part. But the fact is, as we have seen in the news over the past few weeks, that despite all the increases in the development of electrical vehicles in the country, we are a few steps behind the common people, which, unfortunately, sometimes happens. News reports that the most complex places, such as yours, are the most complex. In the palaces, in the citynes, in the Egls, and in other places, such as many places in the South country, we could mention just a certain bottle neck. There are too few loading stations in these places, and people have to stop much longer because they have to wait to get to a loading station, there's someone else ahead of loading. That bottleneck works. He simply has a discouraging influence on people's will in order to have confidence that they can drive through the country on an electric vehicle. That's why I think it's very important that we start putting more money on it. Hopefully, it will come with the new operation plan, although it may not be clear there, but hopefully much more money will be put in construction for electric cars. Mr. President. I mentioned in answer to the possibility that the electric companies could do this in a more powerful way. This is what I have been studying and preparing and hoping to contribute in the autumn. Then, companies such as Richard, who have tensions and dams all over the country, will be assigned to work counterlessly to build larger loading points in these large areas where the best necks of the bottle are. I think there's a way that's really good, as I mentioned in a speech at the council last week. We would not necessarily hide Richard driving these loading stations ourselves but would contribute to the link point, even a malaria moment, and then other members might come to and set up their loading stations. This would be a kind of incentive for parties to build up more loading stations. Another way that would be interesting to consider is a route that is gone in Germany, but the German government assigned all the gas stations to also carry a battery of trucks. There could be a way too. But in view of the power of a power company and a powerful distribution plant, I think it's a good reason to consider whether they can't be used better in this project, as if we have so good experience with ON, Nature's Power. Mr. President. I'd like to use the last few minutes to discuss a point I only came in earlier in answer to why. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, the fact that this treasure is widely tailored. He's only on his own. 25 million. K. to the distribution, which is the amount I think would definitely be allowed at least double and remain substantially increased more than that. You see, the fund has been used in all kinds of special projects too, such as. The construction of loading stations and improved isolation This seems to be a very suitable setting to provide funds that the government decides to specialise because the fund is flexible and has expertise in energy exchange and in improving energy efficiency. I think there's a huge opportunity in the fund, which I think this case may include if we follow it up into the budget and raise the fund. I hope so. Congress members here on the budget take it to heart, and look at the next budget to contribute considerably to this fund. We do not always have to build new devices and appoint new committees to distribute money. We can take advantage of the available infrastructure and apply it in a clearer follow-up with each decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, and he would like to agree first. A senator said about institutions on the land. In recent conditions, we learned that the most amazing things can be done at home or at least without being in the workplace, but it seems that there is some need for people to test technology and put forth effort to make good use of it. But that's not what I was going to ask. A senator by the way, I forget how little time I have. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " A senator sees a specific time for energy in general, here and elsewhere, and I wonder about it because of a change in energy proposal. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, to add professional advice to the financing of the contractors, Article 4. The bill, whether it's only then that in industry, we know that there's going to be a lot of growth and innovation, hopefully at least, especially need to be careful that professional viewpoints are involved in the distribution of funds. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Now I picked it, I admit it, not to have it. A senator of this proposal, in part because I felt that it might go a little too far, to have seven people's professionals for 30 million, although, certainly, as I said earlier, there is a lot more money in the back, but mostly because the fund's management should be found to seek knowledge from those to whom it seems necessary, as such. Officers of the Power Institute. Since it's 50 years old and has been very successful so far, I didn't see reason to complicate the situation by setting such a big subject. I'll admit it, as we've seen. [[The president calls.]] I hope I'm right, but there's always a possibility that I'm not. [[The president calls.]] But in this case, I appreciated it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u58	A respectable president. If it was so that we could find one person who would always be right, we wouldn't have to be hanging around here, that's for sure. This is not to say that someone is always right. But my concern is that this industry, energy industry, will grow very much. You assume that there are a lot of conflicting interests. Many people apply for the same project and work on the same project. I hope there's competition everywhere, and as far as it isn't, you always have the same worry about it. The system, which is installed before the rise, can be so important in time. Although the amount may not be high now and the size may not be large, it can change and I hope it will change, and we hope that here, it will be such a healing of energy that after us we can tell ourselves that it was good that we took care of ourselves and tried to do things as professionally as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u59	President. I agree with what. Senator. These are important tips, and it is very important to maintain this perspective. In fact, I would have liked to take more with one thing that is requiring professional knowledge of at least One of the directors I think would have made the matter stronger. But okay. Hv. A senator spoke of conflicting interests and such, and I think there's a certain possibility that this route has gone, i.e. looking for professional knowledge, as appropriate, and especially within the Power Agency, where they are not candidates. I hope, if we succeed in strengthening Power Fund and expanding it, that means, too, and with increasing technology, we'll start to see bigger and more varied applications, and then I think this way may be interesting. [[The president calls.]] But I think it's also necessary to ensure transparency about who's giving advice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the Elíasdóttir of Elias for his talk That was very illuminating. You see, to study this matter, to read the committee opinion, to read the paper with the bill, that the information that it revealed about the fund's activities is not too great, so I put it pent. I'll have, for example. I don't see how much money this treasure is between my hands, how it stinks, or what it's been doing. There is very limited information on this in the evidence. So it's good to have it up to about 25 million. K. I'm assigned every year, but I'm told that the amount is considerably higher. I understand it's about 250 million. Yeah, something like that. But this does not change the fact that the matter itself does not reveal exactly what money is behind, so it may just need a little transparency to the suggestions itself. That's why I wanted to ask, "What's the difference?" I didn't see it in the report, and I didn't see it on the bill. What's the difference? [[The president calls.]] Why is it decided to leave counseling and to go to control? I don't see any reason for that. Was there a discussion within the committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir for her answer. Because of what? A senator mentioned 250 million just to say that the amount of money entrusted to the fund varies from year to year. That could be 250 million. K. This year and 10 million. K. on the next one. Excuse me, Mr. President, or a billion so I'm optimistic, perhaps overly optimistic. The reason that the Power Fund is being replaced by a advisory committee is, according to my understanding, because, in fact, it is the matter of formalizing the fund and making it more independent. It was somehow kind of a drawer project, and now it's become a real fund with control, not just a consulting committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u62	A respectable president. This is interesting because if we compare this with the Climate Fund, which may make 80 million or so a year or so per year, he has a professional plan and he's in charge, and maybe he's a more formal concept. Yet, it could be said that the boiler could be much larger. Anyway. As for Power Fund's project - I find it a little interesting -- I was, for example, I was. nothing particularly aware of them, but because of it. A senator made it a subject of his speech, and I have often felt that we were also able to make good use of the earth's heat. It could be reused, it might be used much better than it is now. So if it happened. A senator only helps me: Is this something she knows that the Power Fund was doing or standing with him? [[The president calls.]] Or feel it. A senator just heads that the Power Fund should take over this task? Because I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this pleasant question. There, she met with me on a special subject of interest, which is being improved by the freshing of earth's heat. It's really a project I had before I came in here to the council. The heat is so intense, we can use it. We use it naturally to warm up our houses. We'll use it to produce electricity. But even after we have warmed up our houses, and after we have produced electricity, we still have a lot of energy left in the hot water we are using in a number of ways, as we can see, for example. on theoffs of the Smokeynes, i.e. Blue lagoon. We can also see this in Strulls and the lagoon there. I think there's a huge opportunity there, and I know that the Energy Fund has at least been supporting such projects by knowledge and encouragement. I would have liked to say more about this, but I'm afraid we're out of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u64	A respectable president. Then comes the opportunity. I was just about to ask a similar question. There are cold areas. A senator mentioned in his talk. When I was on a visit to the Power Farm of the West some time ago, it was just about a project that could improve the availability of the cold area by 200 million. That would be what would have to be done, based on the analysis there, to reach the earth's surface and go on full means to stop viewing the area as a cold area, only 200 million when it all comes down to the surface. The benefits of subsidies and such things, which are in cold areas, the equations of electrical transport and so forth, should easily be covered. [[The president calls.]] Why is nothing happening?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u65	President. If I had sworn, I'd be happy to inform it here. Unfortunately, for all the fun, I think we were often caught looking in the mud instead of counting the crowns. It's hard to face the big cost of stock, and we forget how much eventually we'll save. It is thinking that we need to break free from the habit of looking to the future. This kind of project has tremendous opportunities, and fortunately, there are at least some resources in the Energy Fund to contribute to such projects. It could be done in a much more handsome way, especially, such as at least. In view of the tremendous savings of the project, a senator points out in response. [[The president calls.]] It'll pay in a few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u66	President. That's exactly what I'm talking about, e.g. A law on public finances where cost-and-improvement analysis is responsible for all the decisions made by the government. The analyses that we were shown at the Power Farm of the West are relatively obvious when you consider the matter in the expense context they were presented to you. Maybe there's some kind of thought-making thing or something like that, you know, it'd be nice to show it. But let's just see the context. We were talking about half of the pension and more rights between them a few years ago. There is the cost analysis 100 to 300 million, doubting 200 million to or from, which is exactly what this would cost. When such a amount can be thrown out, so it seems to be a change, in the law of half a pension, in view of the profit of such an investment in the language we address here, you scratch your mind over how public policy measures seem to affect just cold areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u67	President. With the permission of a president, I intend to use the Anglo - Saxon language to say that the problem is sometimes, but not always, and perhaps not in this case, in the attitude described by the words '-computer sais 'no', in a casual sense that the computer says no, Mr. President. Sometimes we are so trapped in a box that we forget to think outside the box and forget to think about the ultimate goal, which is naturally to improve living conditions and save money when it comes to finding hot water. I think we need to change that attitude, and we need to have the courage to put more money on it. Of course, one has an understanding that the fear of not finding the hot water is probably under there, but I think we should do better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u68	Although translated from English, the President looks at the language of the United States of England because it is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u69	Mr. President. I just wanted to come up right here during the discussion and point out what the thermal industry has given the country a lot of money in recent years. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] When I first started renting in Akureyri in 1991, I remember paying 113 bucks. ... forthebedmetre. The same number today. But if we were to make this real today, it would be about 400 bucks. In Akureyri, over 30 years ago, over a hundred years ago, over a hundred pounds [30 years ago]. Today it has become even less expensive than in Reykjavík, after a certain problem in the city over the last few years with a heating system. So this has changed dramatically. Thirty years ago, it was far more expensive than in the capital city. So it's enormous. We are saving 100 billion each year. That's where there's the wealth of the country in itself. I'd like to ask about the crime scene, for use and further research in Iceland. What does it look like? In this context, do you have a candidate in the use of saunas?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u70	Mr. President. I'll be kind of grateful. A senator for giving me the opportunity to keep talking about the earth's heat and its opportunities because they are enormous. The word "discovered " means that we are losing something of value. It's just that simple. We could be making use of the earth's heat much more than we would do as I had begun talking back to what I was doing. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir. You can't just swim in it. It can also be used to grow food, which is a natural huge matter for us Icelanders, who live on an island. It is becoming extremely fast technology in connection with electricity production, with lower temperatures. So there are opportunities. We could be making more use of the earth. If so, I have not started to talk about other opportunities, such as using it to grow tiny children and other such things. Yes, Mr. President, there are tremendous opportunities to make better use of a criminal, and we need to do much more in that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u71	Mr. President. Now you're sitting with your ass. A senator on a energy convention committee. We've been sitting there for two years, and we've been discussing energy issues in general in Iceland, research, energy efficiency, and everything we've got to deal with this. Since we are going out a little bit of what we're dealing with, we can do a lot of the talking. But what we're really doing with the Power Fund is making it a little more independent from what has been. We realize that it will be a real effort fund, that the effort in energy exchange will be partially taken through it, and that it will focus on the government and construction work. I have no doubt. A senator agrees that we are going on that journey. I talked about an aquifer earlier and how much money he saves us here instead of burning up oil or something. We could save 30 to 40 billion dollars in energy stores, shopping oil, for our cars every year. What are we gonna do about that, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u72	President. Thank you. A senator very much for that good answer. That's where he hit the nail. I've been thinking for a long time that we're going to have to do much more to get out the oil use faster than we're doing. Because I know why. A senator is a special amateur for flights there, and we could be doing so much more to use electricity just to get out oil and we're supposed to do it. See to you that after a few years, we could even be driving around on domestic fuels and what it would set us free in a whole foreign store and stuff like that. There are tremendous opportunities, Mr. President. We are to set that course, and we are to work on it through real action and real projects and real treasures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u73	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for a good and interesting discussion on this subject and for the joy of participating in it. The changes in Power Fund targeted by this bill are that of mine that know good and timely. I see a reason to come up here to say that I specifically agree with what the fund says about its role, that it is contributing to the economic efficiency of national energy resources through funding or loans aimed at reducing fossil fuels use and improving the use of domestic renewable energy sources, as traced in Article 2. The bill. I am happy to see that the government's interest in raising the budget and more fully clarifying its role. The goals they are set out are a fine price. The fund's legal environment is to be enhanced so that he can better carry out his work, the work he already has, than at the same time, his new assignments. I noticed that this says that the aim is that it will be done without any cost being paid. True, it is a positive, positive goal, but the question is, How practical is it? This seems to me to be one of the things you see here over and over again; the goals are good and noble, but it is to see how realistic they really are and how practical they really are. It's important to me that the fund's role is better defined. I'm very interested in the fact that order is clear and that it can be determined by order. I feel that this bill has something to do with it, but not all of it. I have at times felt that the government's prime products were a bit like the Morning Press, that they are almost as focused on what is not in them as what they say. But I wouldn't say that this bill is like that, because it seems to be here to explain the whole story and to explain the principle and that the design of order reflects the real role they are today and as they come to be. It is a role of arrangements and funding, as well as points of the fund's administration. This is, of course, that you seem, all part of growing the fund in accordance with, for example. climate work. In this relationship, I would like to include a discussion in the Commission study of the greater part that information on how the fund works is available. Eight. The bill says that the Minister should set up in the Regulation further instructions on the requirements of energy funds, the preparation of stocks, loans and so on, including interest rates and other loans, payments, etc. Then, in this article, on the authority of Regulation for Ministers, the Power Fund management can provide additional rules and conditions for the transfer of funds between individual projects, if necessary. At the end, it says that a minister is authorized in the Regulation to set up more detailed regulations on the activities and planning of the Energy Fund and the implementation of these laws. So here we can see from 8 st. that, first of all, a minister should be in law under certain circumstances that are listed. It goes on to say that the Power Fund administration can make further rules in this regard, i.e. the factors involved. Then there is permission for Ministers to review in more detail the regulations on the activities and organization of the fund. I put a question mark on this point, whether or not this is far enough in terms of the fact that information about the fund's activities is available. I feel that this is only a theme that we discuss over and over again here in the hall regarding government laws and policies, i.e. the transparency. A reflection must be a term of material value, more than words expressed. I do not feel that such a law is too clear to me about what is really required. That's where I'd agree with what. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy talking about this theme earlier. In the opinion of the committee, it is said that more is involved in the importance of the availability of information on the fund's activities; it is important that a clearer frame be placed in place than in Article 8. The bill, where a minister is authorized to state the activities of the fund in the Regulation. If we start again at the starting point, the goal to promote a legal environment so that the fund can better carry out its tasks and that its role is more clear, you will also think that it should be discussed in the legal structure itself, or that at least it should be considered. I'm not going to tell half the story, but it might be clearer. Everything that comes out is positive and good, but it's as if the conversation isn't over. That's when I come back to that starting point in the bill, which is the function of the fund in 2nd. g., to contribute to the economic use of energy resources through funding or loans. These measures are attributed to reducing the use of fossil fuels, increasing efficiency of renewable energy sources, and supporting specific activities that contribute to energy security and competitiveness and tasks based on energy policy, innovation policies, regional policy and government policy. It's a big role, and it seems that in recent years the role of the fund was increasing. The sea plays a key role in the government's operations on energy exchanges, in energy innovation, and then in the interaction between energy and climate. As a result, it is important to strengthen the foundation of the fund by means of special laws. However, I also feel that if the role is to be clear, information about the operation needs to be available and it needs to be done more now. Then, briefly, a few comments. I say again that I feel that this whole matter is a great deal of the good and that it is taking a positive step here. However, key comments concern the public's access to information on the funds of the fund. I took note of the Commission's reviews that the very views of the industry are marked by the fact that there is a need for greater transparency in the administrative department in general and that is relevant here too. It is important to discuss it in the Power Fund law that it published, for example. A annual report on its activities and distribution is strengthened. This review refers to the Norwegian enterprise, Enova in Norway, which is well matched with the operation of Energy Fund. As far as I can see, this statement in the bill is referred to by the Industrial Association rather than as a reason to react to it. In other words, the finding is that the content and format of this information in a Regulation is more appropriate than in the law, if I understand it correctly. I think there's reason to stop and agree with the Commission assessment that we should be making greater demands on transparency, especially when we are talking about the distribution of public funds. Of course, we've seen during the council work for the winter that we can always do better here. I mention in the case of President, that a reverend officer, Valdimarsson Steindordrsson, has been able to obtain information on funding on the basis of agricultural contracts, which was certainly not an easy game. I think it's in the spirit of common sense and a measure of respect for the intervention of public capital that we have it as much as we possibly can. I'm having a bit of a problem with people's access to information that's limited and would like us to take a steady down leg here. The general interest in handling public funds is obvious, and it is not just a prince's motive but that we have our information and evidence to provide government resources at any given time, and public interests that this information is available at any given time, but not that we especially need it. As I'm saying, there's a rich public interest problem behind it, and maybe as the situation is in terms of financial interests today as well. Another comment that has been made here during the discussion, Mr. President, relates to the order of the administration discussed in Article 3. The bill. It seems that it is a political order without any particular restrictions. I do not fully understand that no consideration is given to the kind of government selection. It simply says that a minister will order them. Are they designated? How do we secure the choice of these directors? Then I'd like to finally begin with the comments of the National Institute of Natural Science, which I found interesting. It shows that in view of this new role of the fund in climate control, it should also be able to support energy - related tasks that contribute to or take into account government environmental policies. According to the Institute of Nature, the Environment and Resource Ministry is directly involved in the management of the fund. This is what I feel, when I enter this discussion, is an idea that deserves a discussion, whether it would be a good idea for an environmental organization, for example. ... thenameofthecreator. He would be among those whom a minister at any given time could choose. It makes me feel like it's coming back to this transparency note, that it would be a good idea if it were to be settled by the way a minister appoints the board. If I frame this in, I'd say it's a good thing. Here's a good step. I would have liked to see us take a little further, and that our underlying goals would be allowed to get to the surface by telling them plainly about the role, regulations, and financing, it's just as much on board as it can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a very interesting talk, you might find Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, the daughter of Gunns. I'd like to talk to her for a second. First, it speaks of the requirement in the report that the bill will not include an increase in the cost of government funds. She also talked about transparency. I've been thinking about these two things in relation to the bill because, as I've learned, there are different types of donations in this fund, and it's not clear how much it costs every year. That's not quite clear. So I wondered: " What exactly is meant by this sentence, that the bill will not include an increase in cost when the government stresses increasing energy change? It must cost some money. Does that mean, then, that running this fund does not cost more money? Is that what is being referred to? I think it's a very odious word wording. I don't know if it's in some kind of purse to say that it doesn't cost anything and that's why they say it. But there is no such evidence that supports it. At least I don't think what that means. Then came a whisk. Senator into professionalism at the order of this administration. She spoke of a form from the Environment and Resource Ministry as well as from the Natural Protection Agency. That's the way it is, for example. The system at the climate fund, which is supported by the Environment and Resource Ministry. That is why we might also ask: Why should we not take the climate fund as an example in this regard? These two are closely linked.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Asvardóttir for the questions. I focused on this goal in my talk, which I like to talk, that these changes will be done without leading to an increase in cost. But I think the goal is only good if you can reason with it, because a promise or a statement or a goal that is left behind is worse than going at all, so I put a lot of warning in this expression there. When we have a legal system, we should at least go to law. To meet our demands if we were to conduct ourselves in a court order and speak our language. This remained as a statement in which no evidence has been submitted, as it were, of course. A senator mentions. Good goals alone do very little when there is no real connection. It may be the same as the book of home, it can have good meanings and promises, but it is important to have perspective. For the board of directors, when I get into this discussion now, I'm not particularly disturbed by the appointment of ministers. I would have felt that the way it is going to be done and what viewpoint is behind it. It's the good old thing; one is to have the law with them, and then it's to have a perfunctory view. I think it's a good idea that they're in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree with her that it is important to have the grammatical views of the law so that they can be trusted, not merely to be followed by a gentle minister each time, whether a complex view is a matter of action or not. I can see that, for example. that in the climate Fund there are requirements for order in the management of the fund that one member of the management board has knowledge of climate change, etc. There are professional requirements for the government. I think this is very important, because there is suspicion and an increased risk that things aren't right and that they don't necessarily fit the most qualified people. That is exactly what we want to prevent so that we can be treated well with our money. Is it not, then, true to appoint people who have expertise in the seminary? And would it not be true that it would be clear in the law to choose people with experience and knowledge? It's not even in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u77	Mr. President. Yes, I would also like to say in the context of this discussion that, in general, about having as much on board as possible about the requirements and what is required, it is best to have the guidelines as explained in the same way as the underlying objective. I think that would help with the views as a matter of course. A member of the council traced here and is willing to reduce suspicion. We could turn it around and watch it with more positive glasses and tell them that there's a fall in confidence. I would also have thought that there was a minister at any given time in order to find out what the requirements are. This also helps to protect him from such suspicions and possible criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. Of course, more were received - two of them. There is a review that interests me very much from the National Natural Institute of Nature, which suggests that the fund also has the authority to support energy - related projects to support government nature protection policies. That's a very interesting and important point to me. This, of course, is shown in the bill's report, and in discussions about the fact that it's not just about energy, it's about the context that all the energy is today, which is nature protection, and perhaps not least climate change. Energy and nature protection are interwoven by nature at least here in Iceland and probably everywhere. Now I know what to do. A senator is not on a professional committee, as a matter of fact, a party has a problem. The senator not with a member of the committee there but with an officer in charge. I wondered, " Is this not a view that would be normal for me to take more into consideration? ' I often feel as if it were shown in reviews of good ideas worth talking about, completely perturbing, falling between ships and docks, as they say, and having no actual discussion in committees or here in Congress halls. The same is true of the other comments as well. A senator, from the Industrial Association, said about increased transparency. I'll agree with that with what's happened. Senator. I mean, these aren't ideas that seem radical or that change the nature of things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for these questions and comments. I may be brief and say: " I wholeheartedly agree with what he is saying here. I traced in my speech these two reviews because I thought that both of them were a lot of added to the subject. It's interesting to me when you look at this bill, because it's not far or chemical, considering the number of articles or their length, that it's a lot below. I'm calling it what it's like. A senator mentions, the link between nature protection policy and the projects published on the bill in terms of the fund's role. It's natural, obvious, and very powerful in speaking to you how many tasks this fund has to do with it. As for the reviews, I also wholeheartedly agree that it is of great interest and thought how little they will do in the debates here at the Assembly Hall. Of course, in the committees it is that reviews play an important role in the individual senators'attitude toward matters, and I think that it might be more clear to the legality if the viewpoint and knowledge that would appear in the reviews of the cases were given greater weight in general discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u80	A respectable president. It is always the same theme, when new members enter the council, they are surprised to see how little really goes through. Without wanting to talk down the political process, which is basically fine, you wonder whether it is normal or acceptable how little consideration is often taken into consideration for the reports and ideas presented by the Committee, and often in committee opinion, as in this case, even when there is good evidence against it. If there is good evidence to support the fund's support of energy related to nature protection, you should be able to better explain this, you'd think. I don't have a question for why. A senator. I just rolled up where I found it so interesting to hear it. A senator deals with these things. But these are things that I think should be of greater importance in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u81	Mr. President. I don't mean to start repeating myself, but I agree. A senator's view of these matters. Of course, it's like this bill that when you look at it, it's a little bit in words but a lot under, and the mirror on the input is most important in these comments. This is not said with any particular criticism in mind, I'm in favor of this case, and I think it's good. But to see what is really going on and what is the goal, you need to look at the reviews. That may be the least of my feelings about these comments from the Society of Industrial Relations and what it needs to be sharpened. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u82	Mr. President. I just want to get into the reviews of the Industrial Association. In the second review, she is clearly taken into account. The employment committee on this matter says: The reviews to the Committee presented a view that it is important to add the law or to the Regulation to monitor the progress of tasks or reporting, including in order to ensure transparency in the management sector as well as a professional discussion on the activities and activities of Energy Fund. In the treatment of the problem, information on how the fund works has been published in the annual report of the Energy Agency, including the Agency, has been published. for the progress of projects and projects that have been supported by the fund. At the same time, the fund's procedures are found on the web. A share agrees with the importance of the availability of information on the fund's activities. It is important that you set a clearer frame than in Article 8. The bill is authorized by a minister to discuss the activities of the fund in the Regulation. The majority agree with the perspective expressed in a paper with the bill that the content and format of the annual information provided in the Regulation should be discussed more fully. The same value as the authority to repay loans, but there must be a clear framework for such sources. And it is because of land activation's comment on the obligation to reimburse, that there is a full transparency. Last year I wanted to ask you why. A senator whether we can look at what is being made with an energy fund as a means for combating climate change. First and foremost, it's the second energy exchange in Iceland. For 50 years, energy fund was very involved in the global warming and the heating industry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is the idea that he's going to take the second energy exchange we're about to enter?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u83	Mr. President. Perhaps I wanted to start with the second question, underlining it, and putting it in a strong frame that I like this subject. I feel that this is going in the right direction, and that it is important to make a clearer framework of the role of the fund and what it will be like. As I mentioned earlier, it seems necessary to me because the role of the fund and its projects has been growing and may continue to be so. I mentioned in my speech earlier, Mr. President, the leading opinion of the greater portion and coverage of Article 8. I agree and agree with the criticism given there. However, in view of the fact that the greater part feels that the setting of a clearer frame would have been better understood, why is that not? This is indicated in a way that it is important that a clearer frame is placed above 8 grams. The bill does by providing a warrant, and it is obvious that much of it does not feel that it is too much to do. Why could it not be done immediately? This may now be the result of what I was trying to achieve regarding that article.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u84	I'd like a later answer to the previous committee's opinion of more part of the employment committee in this matter, what is involved in the management of Power Fund. It states: The bill suggests that rather than a minister ship a three - man advisory committee, he appoints three individuals in the management board of the fund. Some discussions were made in the Committee on Command, and whether or not a further requirement should be given to the Commission's advisory order on the grounds of a proper administrative law and knowledge of the seminary, with reference to the provision of public funds. In this context, the majority of the objects want to point out that with a factor of 3. Regulation No. 185/2016, on Energy Fund, it is required that the advisory committee be obliged to seek the information of the Energy Agency or other experts as appropriate, before proposals are made for ministers for grants or loans from the Energy Fund or subsidies of remuneration. I felt that I had to answer this question to make this happen because it has not really been a great discussion here. These things are spoken of a lot, but they have not been quoted in the previous committee's opinion of more of the part in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for presenting a prior opinion in this regard. When you look at the bill, it's about roles and control. If you look at the broad lines, what's underneath, there's two that's the main weight of the bill. I have to say that I feel very positive that this was under discussion on the committee, that it was usually a matter of consideration in what way to appoint this government. I have a political opinion that a minister of one time should have space and that we shouldn't eliminate politics from the politics. But because I feel that way, I'm also very focused on the fact that guidelines are clear and these objective views, such as The government laws require that they be joined in clearly by the legislation itself. Then there is the staging point, whether one will go by then, that individual parties or societies will have room to specify or how we will do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u86	A respectable president. Once again, environmental and transport committees are in trouble with their discovery. Now just before four, a meeting was scheduled five minutes in advance, at a meeting, without at least I've been asked by an officer on the Committee whether it's okay. It is very clear that all members of the committee need approval if they are to attend a meeting at the meeting. I was wondering if there was any exception, because it was very clear in the case of a respected president of the last council, reminding me, because it also requires President's approval, that the president was going to make sure that it was approved by all members of the committee. So I wondered, " How can I give a five - minute meeting without asking at least? ' An officer?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u87	A respectable president. I think it would be very important to get it clear from the president whether an audience isn't entitled to express its opinion during the meeting period. I think it's very important to get it clearly out. Of course, the classes have their members in committees, even though they may not have voting rights there, and it is important that they be able to participate in committee meetings. It is important that they be able to attend committee meetings and that they have something to say when they are held, especially when they are announced on such short notice. I believe it is very important that the president inform us if he has granted permission for this committee meeting, whether it has played in to the point. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear is an audience officer and whether it is for the approval of all the other committees for the meeting because that is not necessarily the case. It's very important for the president to say if it's okay to leave an audience out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u88	Mr. President. I come up mostly here to join my colleagues but also to point out that according to Article 20. A political hearing must not be offered at a meeting without the approval of all members of the committee. 14th degree. says, with permission of the president: ▪ Group, who doesn't have members on the NTSB Committee. 13th g., is permitted to appoint an officer for her meetings. It can be interpreted in two ways. On the one hand, it might be interpreted as not dependent on an officer's consent. On the other hand, it might be interpreted as saying that an audience officer is entitled to make such a decision. There's nothing more specific about this particular point, but I think it's in the spirit of good cooperation that we have it, even though it's a general question by an audience. [[The president calls.]] I suggest the president seeks to explain this on a more intimate occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u89	A respectable president. I just want to make it clear that I got a meeting five minutes before a meeting that I rejected because I hadn't been asked. I don't know if this meeting will affect whether or not the meeting was held. As an officer of the hearing, I have the same legal obligation as the members of the Parliament and the regulations of those committees to attend that meeting, unless necessary, no rules. So I would think I would have something to say about the time of the meeting meeting because I'm in this conversation, I'm on the rosary below, and I'm observing the meeting because I'm participating in it. So it's very strange that I don't even have a knock on my door and ask. Now, for example, it was. They were trying to hold a meeting at a council meeting, and then they went a bit. The head of Willum Þór Thor Þórsson amongst people asked them, of course, but for some reason it doesn't happen on an environment and transport committee. The other day, I was like... without being invited to a meeting of the environment and transportation committee, which was short noticeed, I didn't get a meeting until 45 minutes after the meeting began. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u90	Mr. President. It is interesting to listen to this discussion about a meeting. I wondered if it really is such a thing that it has meaning in this relationship whether or not there is an officer in the audience. I admit I don't know the rules. But I have to say, I would appreciate the conclusion of the matter if it were, in view of the Senate's mechanism of action. I can't help putting this into context with a discussion we had here a few days ago that also involved an audience officer and the possibilities he was given, or rather not granted, to frame his political stand. I'm not going to say anything about it, but we all remember the discussion on whether an officer can enter a warning, which was the praxize, but it was no longer at the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u91	Mr. President. It's a bit of an expensive fashion to be created by the head of the board these weeks. At the same time that we are encouraged to cooperate, both in here and in the nation, in the activities we are dealing with these days, to come up again and again, every day, the circumstances of the council to the issue of administration, as if the lesser part or position of government were not required to be taken into account. You wonder, " How can that be? ' It's easy to hold a meeting at dinner break to be held here, and then it's a little strange to bring up a meeting on a committee that can well be waited until everyone's ready and no one needs to be on duty here in the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u92	A respectable president. It's a bit of a weird thing to do here over and over at the council about something as simple. I cannot understand that all members of the committee, whether an audience officer or a nomad, cannot be invited to a meeting of committees. In this case, I don't think there's any way to say it's been forgotten, it wasn't much of a problem to find that member of the council hall. It would have been possible to pick him up and point him out. But these are practices that seem to happen over and over again. I ask: How are we going to increase the respect of the council if we're to behave like this over and over and over and make such naive and foolish things so that we don't announce to all the members of the council at a meeting?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u93	A respectable president. I find it very harsh to send a meeting invitation five minutes before a scheduled meeting without checking if there is any desire to have a meeting at the council meeting, but it is only minimal effort to see if the will of the members of Congress is available to hold a committee meeting at the meeting. A meeting meeting cannot be sent on five minutes in advance and expected to be just fine. I wondered if it took more time to ask for the president's approval than to ask for the approval of the committee and whether the president has made sure that the approval of all members of the committee is in place because the president has said that he is right to make sure that the approval of all members of the committees lies before he accepts a meeting. The President has had to have quick hands, and he has seen quite a lot to agree with this meeting. It's very pathetic, topv. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u94	President. I come up here to join my colleagues. It's getting a little tired, the ass that's now at the end of the council. Everything is being so hurried that it is not even a matter of asking members of the committee if they agree to have a meeting at a meeting, which is to be done correctly before an invitation is sent. People here are meeting for talks, we're here, we're engaged in discussions, and we don't have a chance to go to a meeting, let alone when a meeting party comes in five minutes in advance. I thought the president had spoken clearly in this regard, but it may be necessary to get this message better to the chairman. It's not working, and there's no need to create such problems and disagreements when you can simply ask the members of the committee if they agree to have a meeting at the council meeting. If not, just ask for a postponement at a meeting or a meeting at another time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u95	A respectable president. Away from the songs or the like, you begin to wonder if a meeting can be held for perhaps 15 minutes in advance or 20 minutes in advance. Is it five minutes before? I think that's an excellent question. But I have to draw attention to it. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is now on the rosary, which was when the meeting was being announced. Now I don't know anything about the subject of this meeting, but in terms of an audience in general, I believe that members of Congress should be entitled to a committee on each committee. It would soon create a requirement for members of a small group, particularly tiny, such as two or three members of Congress, to be completely unbearable by physical laws. On the other hand, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals usually be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u96	Mr. President. I want to add, in the spirit of what I mentioned earlier, very brief, that there seems to be a degree of scope for interpretation of Congress laws that are being used more and more in a way that may not have always been done. There is good reason for us to revise Congress laws so that everyone can agree on what they mean, what the consequences are, and what is expected of people who work here. That meetings are announced without the approval of members of the Committee or even announced 45 minutes after a meeting, etc. is a sign that something is wrong with the activities of this important agency that we need to take on. [[The president calls.]] So I'm going to go to the highest office. President, even the President of the Generals, to handle this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u97	Mr. President. Only on the footing that's being created here at the council. This enormous importance, being made up of five minutes in advance on the Environment and Transport Committee, and not without agreement, but, despite protests, during the conference period, was not about important matters of the government, it was not about an important matter at the General Assembly Convention but on the matter of the senator's Council of Environment and Transport. Now I'm not going to stand here and down Congress business, but you're wondering if the government really likes to let everything up in here in a bad way. [[The president calls.]] Why do they do this at the same time as they are trying to negotiate with the government? Why? [[The president calls.]] Why at this point let it all back into a fire and a bar? It's become so risky that you're scared to death.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u98	The book of Ecclesiastes says that there is an appointed time for everything, especially for a time limit at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u99	President. 20th degree. Congress code says, with the permission of a president: A meeting should not be held at the time of a meeting. This can be avoided, however, if the members of the committee agree and the president do not object. So it is possible to turn it away. I want to start by saying, "Why is this? This is natural here because the members of the council that may need to be here and participate in a discussion cannot at the same time be at a committee meeting and participate in the discussion there unless, at the same time, the natural nature of meeting regular committees is usually open, like a dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson and Piratar has been repeated. Then you might be able to watch afterwards. True, it would not be possible to participate in the discussion, but it still stands out. But there would be a minimum way to know what has happened at the meeting. It's really just a matter of creating a reasonable amount of space. This is the spirit of the law and an officer of the hearing has just as much need to participate in the discussion as in what is going on at the meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's really just a matter of being fair and following the spirit of the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u100	President. I wanted to come up here and add something. Speaking of being invited five minutes in advance, maybe because the president is here in the audience, I specifically wanted to mention that I received a three-minute warning message with the President today. As a result, I could not attend because I was just not in a house. I'd appreciate it if we had to be there somewhere. That'd be good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u101	Mr. President. I have a clear understanding that at the end of the season, there needs to be a degree of flexibility, including the preaching of committee meetings. However, it is urgent that certain rules regarding the way the meeting is being preached. It's a little far gone to expect or assume that we're all in a position to monitor messages on our mobile phones when we're even here on a speaker's chair. I think we can make the adjustments so far that when there's so much time left, either by phone or by request for answers back, we can confirm that everyone has received the message and that they have the opportunity to give them an answer. I'm on the environment and transportation committee, approved the meeting, attended the meeting, realized why. paritaprevir And Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was not there, neither asked questions concerning the man, and they went and checked. Somehow, I would walk out of it, and if I had anything to do with it, that he would have given it away to show up, agreed the meeting, but would not be there. [[The president calls.]] We must be able to do more because something else is simply not available. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u102	A respectable president. Now I don't know if one person should take it to himself rather than another, but there are rhythms in politics and elsewhere that when one side wants to get in the way of another, it is impossible for her to participate in the ministry. Being an emissary on a committee hearing is a senator's right to have access to that committee. It is his right, and it is important to respect that right, regardless of what the law says about it, in my opinion. According to the news that we heard here about the meeting board, a meeting is being announced five minutes in advance to address the chairman's case. You generally don't make a comment about it, it's nice to have cases taken care of. But I was just wondering if the officials of the government would get the same treatment, a meeting five minutes in advance to settle matters. [[The president calls.]] I don't think so. [[The president calls.]] I also find that in general, we have agreed on how we are going to complete this council, and the release of cases from committees is involved, as a respected president knows. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u103	Mr. President. That's right, it would be desirable to have a greater perspective and longer delay in the possibility of meeting parties. But under such circumstances as the ones we now live in, as we hopefully close to the end of the council, there is a real challenge that the committee can meet, for example. Here at the House of Congress, taking care of a situation ready to go. In this case, I think a meeting was announced in the good belief that all members of the committee had agreed. He's held in charge of Congress, all members of Congress, not the public officer, as we have seen here. That Senate case is, as far as I know, part of an agreement on the end of the council. The complaint of one party will thus be completed after this matter is resolved. Not everything in whether it is a government or a government issue is important. However, to reduce this kind of supply, the president has thought to pause for a committee meeting because more committees need to meet, and it is best to be free of such conflicts. So I expect an early dinner break and a little longer, which would start then. 18th It should then be possible to organize the needed committee meetings as well as so that the urgent debate on Energy Fund can now be continued.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u104	A respectable president. We'll talk about Power Fund again, happy memories. I have to admit that I had come to mind these conference symposiums, but I just have my speech to thank a respectable president for his efforts to give time to meetings in committees outside council meetings. It may be a technical detail or some formality, but it is important, especially when audiences or committees are on the rosary in a case they would like to talk about. As far as the energy fund is concerned, I have to say, in all principle, that's fine. I can't find a lot of things to avoid, but it's my attention, which, in fact, seems to me to be a sign of the political bitch, and I'm sure there are many deep, deep - seated reasons why, that I sense a certain lack of ambition in the council as to when we can improve matters. It is mainly about our having a case at the council, for discussions on committees, and we receive reviews, a number of them. Sometimes we fail to send requests to parties associated with the issues, which happened very recently on the General and Education Committee for a total of the costs of non-related material. It happens regularly, and I've felt it happened more in the past. But if we're lucky, there'll be reviews, and we'll get some tips. Sometimes these statements are contrary to the case, or the person is totally in favor or whatever. Sometimes, though, there are simple tips. Some have concluded that it is not completely clear whether or not the person is supporting the matter directly or not, or if he just wanted to do his part in making Icelandic legislation a little better than it would have been. I think it's a little boring that we have a chance to introduce suggestions from the reviews and the committees into the points we're considering. Of course, this is much explained by the asan and the haste that mark the appointment of each assembly period. Government primes are coming in late. The government's post comes here and complains about it sometime in January or February and in the fall. And then come the matter some time; someone comes after March 1 or April 1 or when the delay expires to take in a case that will suggest, and has been elected for them, for a so - called variant. However, it is no longer unusual for the Council to address a case that has been presented at the end of the past, on the contrary, for a long time. All of this is evidence that the arrangement at the General Assembly does not seem to be in the position to take care of itself in the matter of the Senate itself, inculcating excellent ideas that are being developed. In this case, there were two suggestions that I would like to make up for the subject, as a matter of course. 7. n.. ........ However, these are fine examples of something that would be very simple to add, or at least dealing with, in the committee's opinion, so that there are explanations for the reasons why it is not responded. I realize that sometimes I find more things and that these are just too much to expect because they just don't trust themselves to go into a very deep discussion about any idea, because it has to be acknowledged that there are no all the ideas of the good things that come here, such as well. Senators probably know each other. But here are two good ideas, two brilliant ideas. One is legal, which is important. Legal technology is important. Form is important. The others are more concerned with how we visualize the role of this fund. I don't see that this idea is being discussed in committee views. In its review, the industrial organization gives greater cover to the general administration. As for the call for transparency and the like, I would answer by saying that we're not very good at responding by thinking that we want to be the best at something, that Iceland wants to be the best in it. But it's no big deal, Mr. Honorable President. It just takes the will to do it. I realize that in the leading chapter of the matter, these comments are addressed and noted that there are rules, I don't remember whether it's in the fund itself or whatever, but at least there are explanations for how these loans are carried out and on what basis and all of that, and also in the annual report of the fund the projects that have been chosen or lent for, and that's fine. However, for one reason or another, the firms of industry must call for this to be called upon for some reason, assuming that it would be better to have this law, and to have a law to implement the format and content, that the requirement for this transparency is in the law. It would be better if only because people start reading the law - and when they know it - some read the law - they see that requirement in there and then they can realize that it exists in a regulation that might be useful for viewing. Besides that, the link would appear to her in a separate law column. There's a chance to do something better that was decided not to make use of. Maybe that's why, and that's the attitude I've noticed, that there's a certain inadequacy that I've perceived, about changing things unless there's a huge clear and large reason to change. I have found little effort to change things for the better unless there is much need, unless there are errors or references in the wrong paragraph, or something like that. Then, of course, it's fixed, endless details in itself when it comes to a law code. It's important that you refer to the correct paragraphs and other articles and everything. However, the other thing may be more political, and I can better appreciate that it has not been met. But I don't understand why not, because it isn't discussed, as far as I can see it, at least I haven't run into it yet. But it is suggested by the Institute of Nature that Energy Fund also supports energy related tasks in line with government nature protection policies. As we know, this fund is intended in the bill to support projects according to government energy policies. Which is fine, that's a good goal and nothing to do with it, it's just cool to improve the legal environment around that fine institution. But the energy issues, nature protection, are not apart. On the contrary, they're completely intertwined. One cannot be discussed without discussing the other. In fact, it is not just a question of whether we are discussing climate change or nature protection in just a more classical sense, seeing that we are remaining in a wild or something like it. You know, both of them have a problem with energy. It has been so overwhelmingly controversial to build here the water strike workers, yet one of the best ways we know to produce electricity, is because of their influence, even theirs, on nature. In modern times, we might be watching more, or the person standing here would prefer to look more closely at the positive effects of such activation on our ability to cope with climate change. Undeniably, though, at least occasionally, the activations have negative effects on beautiful nature that we would like to maintain. And then there are the feelings and opinions of what is beautiful and what is not, with all the discussion that goes with it, and we just have to live and figure out, perhaps with some sort of frame plan. Similarly, when we're talking about energy, what if there's a new way to create energy, here's some clever inventors who invent new ways to generate energy? The sea, on the other hand, focuses mainly on energy, but this new means mainly to protect nature from energy production, a new way to prevent natural damage from energy production. It would be good if the fund also took this into consideration. I don't know if that's coming, I guess not. However, we should be told something about how linked these areas are; nature's protection and energy production. So you hope that there's some way you can make this work together, hopefully not so we'll have to sacrifice some nature protection point to make energy, because we need energy. We need more and more energy, more electricity, especially because we have to change energy. There's really no choice, in my opinion. Climate change is overwhelming, it is port, it is man-made, and we must go to a very radical and, in fact, unprecedented changes in human society in order to maintain the goals we know are pretty bad, namely, 2°C, on average at the end of the century, compared to the beginning of the industrial revolution. This means that we must not leave that group behind, just so that we do just enough to hold into a international covenant or something similar, to meet some requirement. We must do as well as we possibly can. I remind you that we have recently gone through almost resolution in some of the economic sectors of the Covid-19 pandemic. This was not enough to make a special contribution when it came to greenhouse gas emissions. To think that even this collapse of the economy is not enough. A man would now have hoped that some guidance on how to keep up the fight against climate change by reducing consumption, reducing activity. But the message is: We need new technology and we need a lot of it, and we need it quickly, and especially in energy production and energy efficiency as well as industry. In fact, after listening to a fine talk, I recently read a news item. paritaprevir This is Gunnar Bragi's Sveinsson in his discussion about a particular invention, which, in fact, I know only from the news. That invention, apparently, enables it to produce aluminium without being released by carbon dioxide, but it replaces oxygen. That's very exciting. There, the inventor and the rest, at least in the media, complain about the lack of respect for the authority's support of the project. A foreign big company is interested in coming to this, which is very positive. But it is also bad that the experience is that our laws and institutions we have here, which are designed to support innovation and new ways of making energy and using energy, are not interested in opportunities like this. Now I'm going to say this with their heads, that I only have it out of the news, and I'm looking forward to a better look at it. I hope there's some misunderstanding going on. But this is not the only place to find such an attitude. This is also made very clear in the review of Val energy ehf. To the matter that the authorities sometimes forget what they're doing. Of course, it is in order to contribute to some creation, innovation, or production of energy, which is hopefully sustainable and natural, that should be conditional, I would say, as far as possible, at least. In fact, I would also have liked to go out on the order of the government, that the minister of the Board of Energy Fund, according to this bill of his own, or as good as, with a warning of some conditions that are behind. I have to explain to myself that it is a matter of decision-making in the World Council of England that it is a matter of spontaneous reliance on counsellors to make decisions because they are ministers. I just don't trust it. A respectable president. I'm just well aware that ministers are influenced by interests. They affect all kinds of processes. It was never different, and it will never be different, so it is important that laws take into account the realities of the law and have adequate support and objections to prevent them from doing so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I obviously don't have time to discuss it further, a respectable president, so I'll finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u105	Mr. President. I could not ignore this interesting speech at any time. A senator and I would like to allow myself to be only on philosophical terms. Hv. A senator was for a time when he spoke about nature's protection and environment, which was certainly an important indication from the National Institute of Natural Science and Interestingness. I'm saying, Mr. President, I may not have the answer to this question, and I'm not quite sure that. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has it either. But it's such an interesting situation we're in regarding the climate change, the disaster. We're making big decisions about getting out oil and thus using electricity more than we've been doing, which is natural positive, and very important that we do it, like cot. A senator entered his talk. But how do we feel, and why do we have reason to do so? On the other hand, natural protection and the important environmental consequences of energy exchange? Is e.g. Would more effort be justified if we use the energy for less emissions and less pollution projects? I'm going to let myself be a little philosophical because of it. A senator mentioned this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u106	A respectable president. It's a good thing when it comes to the person standing here at least because I firmly believe that there is a lack of philosophical speculation in talks here at the General Assembly. Now I don't have the answer to this, at least not the final, but I can come up with my understanding of what is important to bear in mind in times past in terms of nature protection, which I don't know how to describe any other than classical nature protection, and on the other hand, climate change. Not necessarily the viewpoints that go together. It has long been this way in groups that begin fighting for an important cause, originally rejected by industry and big business, that there will be some culture in which priorities or the evaluation of things out of money become some sort of cloth or sin. I think that's a mistake. We must be able to compare our goals with those we want to achieve in nature. There is a tendency to say: We must save everything and take care of everything. But in a limited world where it cannot be done, we need to set priorities. We may even have to set priorities for such things as expenses. These are questions similar to those we face when it comes to health care. If drugs cost 300 million a year for one person, the heart says that, of course, you should pay it only. But these 300 million may be able to make the same positive effect for 100 people, and that, of course, is what will always be difficult in these matters, since the money and the value we have to solve the problems are of limited doses, but the problem itself is overwhelming and sad. I don't know the answer to this, Mr. Honorable President, but I know we have to use our attitude because we can prioritize on how important it is to solve the problem. I mean, climate change is the most overwhelming thing in the field of nature today. Thus, in my opinion, we may need to consider less viewpoints that we would have taken into account for perhaps tens of years because we can use nature to combat climate change, although not without sacrificing some nature protection principle. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u107	President. Thank you. A senator for a very interesting answer. I thought I'd do it. A senator would be just the senator who would be safe to ask such a question. But he also mentioned improved energy efficiency in his speech, and that is exactly one of the things that Sigurður Ingi Friðleifsson, the director of Power Plants and the employee of Power Fund, has talked about, i.e. that by improving energy efficiency, the electricity may be more efficient and, in fact, enough electricity for today's energy exchange, which is very interesting and good. I'm asking why. Senator: Is he not willing to agree that we need to look far more closely at energy efficiency and use our energy more energy than we do today in order to keep it from being activated?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u108	A respectable president. Simply put: Yes, the energy efficiency is extremely important. It is good to see how well we have done in recent years, not only to make more use of our energy but also to keep it better. The storage is another factor that may not be quite so obvious to the popular talk, to store energy, and to transport it is the real problem. The reason we are so oily is that it is light, convenient, and small. A small amount of oil is a tasteful of energy that can easily be released by just lighting it, much less if it is added and converted into gasoline and everything first. But the big leap into our ability to use electricity for things that we otherwise need oil to become batteries, some sort of super batteries. We're running a race and it's been a long time. It's slower than you would expect when giants battle in a race for something that works simple. It's a real problem how hard it is to store electricity. We're running out of time, a respectable president, but we're just right on this one. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u109	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for his record on this matter. I just wanted to follow it up, and I wanted to ask him for more perspective on the facts and why they don't get more weight and why they don't use the opportunity to listen to them just when the law is being set up and called out for reviews. I've found it interesting to get to know this general theme now, that a case at the council is being discussed that it seems in no way consistent with their importance or size. The government's gonna be right here in the final meters. I'm bringing up a case we both know, sitting on a full-scale board, where a new resource pantheon is being introduced through a global fishing business. There's been a discussion, I think, at four, five meetings, and I suppose there'll be a law in one, two days' time, or whatever it's gonna be. I would be interested in hearing the viewpoint of an experienced senator in this regard. Then there is a theme that you also represent in committee views, where envelopes are handled or almost tackled in this way, saying that the more part understands the point and realizes that things are somehow somehow. It reminds me a bit of a parent's talking, and confessing to her own fault, when you say to your child, "Maybe later." Then, in time, your child will learn that he may later be able to say no. I'd be interested to hear from what. A senator on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u110	A respectable president. Now I'm gonna be a little afraid to sound superior, but where it's at. A senator specifically asks me as a more experienced senator, I can say that it is always interesting when new senators come in, watchmen who are at some point, two, three weeks or more, or new members coming into the middle of an elected period, such as the rest of the year. Senator. It reminds me of what it was like to come in here first, when you first noticed these things. The reality is that a world of Congress is tasteful of people, and people are automatically deprived of the situation they live in. Human beings are extremely good at getting used to more or less anything nonsense, as history shows, and actually just now, if you look at the world. People get used to weird situations that look very strange when you first see them. Hence, when members of Congress first come in, they are rather shocked by their methods, but in time, they may realize that some things are more logical than they seemed at the beginning. But it's a very pleasant theme, and unfortunately it's just really true. Now I know it's a certain taboo, at least in this terms, to talk about what's going on in the council. But this is one of the things I think I'm doing with the council, how reporting procedures and visitors are not used to straighten things out. There's a lot of broken opportunities out there. The underlying reason is, I think, that the Council develops through time from conflict. It's a conflicting agency, we've come here to work on it, not to pursue a common goal. It works well, but in a democracies community, we have come here to disagree and sometimes to get in the way of one another's plans. It results in, in my opinion, an environment in which verbal treatments and processes develop in order to prevent the treatment from being governed by irreprehensible reasons. See: Where did this come from? Who suggested that? [[The president calls.]] Is that more part or less? Is it this category or the other? [[The president calls.]] I could talk for a long time about the possible benefits, but I have to finish my speech now because of a lack of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u111	Mr. President. I have to admit that this is a very interesting subject for my life and that, in fact, I feel as a new senator, it is quite remarkable that there is no more discussed here in the house. As a result of the inquiry I threw to him. A senator's just doing this, I've also found it so frightening to experience that changing relatively simple and obvious things is a highly insurmountable law. It may not be large political news. On the one hand, if we snap the opposition to government out of parentheses, and what the council seems to be afraid of change and, on the other hand, the fact that this is taking place on the final meters is an incredibly reckless change in which there is absolutely no legal consequence, under the premise that it is a small technical change, as if a law does not have a material substance. [[The president calls.]] There's no play-offs missing. I would be interested in hearing a point of view. Senator on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u112	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. That in itself is not new. It's been like this at every council I've ever sat here, so I'll at least remember. This may be particularly bad now because of the Covid-19 pandemic, but it's not surprising at all. I also think that the expectations are something like those of a government at any time sitting in the shelter of a greater part of the council - and there's another thing worth talking about better here, the phenomenon of majority government and minority government and all of that - that the government has basically won the case when it comes in here. But then it comes over and over again, for things to go wrong and all that is to be expected. I think if it was simply more organization here, based on the fact that the memory did not always experience a loss of power despite representing more than 40% of the people or voters, it could be resolved. But I think it needs a change of mental attitude, a political change, and it has to come from the greater part, because he's the one who decides this after all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for his history. I didn't get his perspective completely on the Power Fund and I wanted him to know if he thought this fund was necessary, if he couldn't just be saved somewhere else, and if over the fund had to be a government commanded by the Minister. The secretary seems to decide exactly who will be there. It's kind of weird. When you look at 8. it shows that a minister makes all rules and talks of donations. So it is repeated: A minister is permitted to set in the regulations of further regulations on the activities of the fund. So it seems kind of like a energy fund that a minister runs from A to Z. Thinks why. That's okay with a senator? If not, how would he want to take it differently? This fund is to take care of all sorts of matters, but it seems to be very badly developed what to do. It seems that just what a minister decides is the fund's purpose. I don't know if you're supposed to call this the Secretary's drawer treasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u114	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for asking this because this is a subject I would like to discuss in my speech a little more before I ran out of time, i.e. how this government is organized. The majority of the talk was discussed in the prior committee hearing about the order of the administration of the committee. The Commission, as mentioned above, is sometimes called upon to make some adjustments, rather than change, that there is already a Regulation on the obligation to consult the Power Commission's resignation when it is being taken care of. I'm fine with that. At least it's not bad. Then it says what I find interesting in the committee opinion, with the permission of a president: It is also clear that when ordering a government law, and in the same way, it is taken into account that administrative regulations are being taken into account in evaluating the potential incompetent management and handling of matters. What I find interesting about this is, in fact, that it actually works really hard. However, in Iceland we are also used to being relatively easy for ministers and other members of the administrative system to hire someone who may be given a head start because of ties. Or someone who finds himself undesirable, e.g. for political or such views - it could be, for example, one. An economic professor or something like that, someone who is not in favor with a minister at each time - is somehow made harder to resist the other rules or standards. It remains that whenever a person is hired by a minister or something like that, there is a thoughtful evaluation somewhere, and likely at several locations in the process. It's not going to go anywhere. It's just... It's not going to go anywhere. Therefore, I find it risky to legalize a ship - control minister, trusting that this standard effort will be sufficient to prevent nonverbal reasons from getting the job. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's enough. [[The president calls.]] In short, I do not trust the Icelandic government so well myself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I cannot help but agree deeply with him in this regard. I get the feeling that the energy fund could in itself be somewhere else, nothing has to have another fund for some things. He could be given more clearly and accurately as to what to do. It would be easy for people to doubt whether the funds were properly given or whether they were being lenient to one person or to others at another's expense so that they were completely clear. This is where we're creating another government. How many governments will we have? And it costs money. I'd like to ask myself, " Would it not be possible to save and just have it somewhere else? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u116	A respectable president. I have to admit that I have not been able to study the matter well enough to answer that question, at least not well. On the other hand, I have pondered its connection with innovation. Power wealth is not new in itself. He's just part of the Power Institute law and maybe 50 years old, something like that. At least it is an old institution, and it will exist and develop into an environment that may not look at innovation as much as we want to do today. That's what I was wondering. I'm afraid to say anything about it because I'm just not sure. I have to say, I thought that was what. A senator would be asking if this could be anywhere but in Reykjavík. My answer to that is: Yes, clearly. This can be for me elsewhere, but in Reykjavík as well as many other institutions. I know why. A senator was not asking that question. I just had to come because I thought it was the first time. A senator would be asking that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u117	President. I would like the Minister of Industrial Affairs to come here for this discussion about Energy Fund. This is a case of the highest order. Minister, to suggest that the Power Fund is taken from the Power Institute and that a government is formed in this way, three members of which the Minister is absolutely in charge, has a legal authority on how to do this and ultimately has a refusal or power to agree on how public funds should be given. Has a minister who suggests this heard of a workaholic committee that is working the case recently agreeing to make things much more professional about other funds, the Food Fund? That there should be a technical advice to apply applications and give a review to the management of a minister as to whether it would be objective on these grounds to distribute funds. [[The president calls.]] The funds are enormously broad; economic use of energy resources, reducing the use of fossil fuels, increasing the use of renewable energy sources, energy security, competitiveness of energy on the basis of energy policy, innovation policy, regional policy and climate policy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] All of this is for the three-man board to have professional grounds to appreciate if she asks only Power Institute. [[The president calls.]] No, this must be done professionally, taking out the temptation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like a minister to come in here and answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u118	The President reminds me of why. The senator should respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u119	V.E.G. President. I'll respect the deadline. I simply want to agree with what. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson. I think it is important for the minister to answer why it should not be taken least professionally into this administration, why there are no professional requirements for those who are in charge as important as it really is. [[Up front.]] Why could it not be a minimum requirement, even the agreement on education and knowledge, that it is a minimally beautiful view? Why was e.g. Don't look at the climate fund, where there are very high qualifications, appointments come from many sources, and very professionally the distributions, and the order of the fund? So I accept this request. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u120	A respectable president. I think it's a very natural request at any moment. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson. When I look at this fund compared to the rest of the world, it's strange that it's different to the fund. Why don't we have a standard professional setup of governments in general that needs to be set up for the various funds and governments? Why do we do this in so different ways in different ways? I feel very normal at the highest. A minister gives his vision of what makes this matter different from that of e.g. the climate fund's issues, but this fund has a slight impact on the climate, or on the Food Fund, as it were. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson points out. Why is this fund different from the others?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u121	Before they go any further, the president wants to share a message to the highest order. Sports, industrial and innovations Minister, Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, please report to the dog. Senators, have been there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u122	President. The only thing we're asking for is that like the Food Fund, they're going to put professional advice under the fund. It was called on that in the council people would have to sit from the educational community, the innovation sector, and the commercial world, to ensure that this Minister - appointed government, four people's administration in the case of Food Fund, three men in the case of Energy Fund, has access to a subject that provides it with information from much more perspectives, as I did earlier. There are so many views that must be expressed, for this is such an expansive field that needs to be considered in the work of sharing this budget. How was this done about the Food Fund? Yes, it was only suggested that the official support laws on technology, innovation and employment development were exactly these factors, but technology and innovation are clearly part of what Energy Fund is supposed to do in energy exchange, to ensure competitiveness. Why? Yes, because it's necessary in two laws, on the Food Fund and on official support for technology, innovation, and employment development. This is important in ensuring professional viewpoints. [[The president calls.]] The minister has to answer if she is the one who stands in the way of the committee setting a professional conference under the Power Fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u123	A respectable president. We're discussing important issues about Power Fund. One of the greatest changes has been made in the management of the fund. Instead of the advice of a so - called counselor, a management board should be placed that does not depend on any requirement for professional knowledge or ability and is not subject to an appointment from anyone other than a minister. This is a somewhat different procedure than the one used in a climate fund, which is just as important in a similar place in life, we can say, as is the Power Fund. For example, if we examine how the climate Fund is controlled, we can see on the website of the fund that a minister appoints five representatives in the management of a climate Fund to two years of age. The chairman shall be appointed without appointment, and in addition to that, the minister shall order one officer without a form of appointment. Then, according to the claims of the university community, one government officer who has knowledge of climates is appointed. Already there is one outsider who has professional knowledge to help with the government. Then one executive is appointed according to the motion of the Association of Employment and finally one member of the administration under the motion of an environmental organization. Here, there is a complete government of five men designated not only by ministers but also by interests, stakeholders. The board also serves as a staff member, a larger group, giving direction on how to assign. I think it's important that a professional campaign of this kind be carried out, both because they play an important role and they're supposed to distribute money from a trust fund. It is important that these decisions be made on a professional level. But when I read through the bill and see a minister appointing all three directors and there are no qualifications for ability, knowledge or education, no one, you think, of course, that this should be some kind of political committee to make it easier for a minister to distribute a drawer money, just more drawer money than is necessarily going and going. It is possible to decide how much goes into this fund through the budget, and then there is a three - man government entirely under the direction of a minister who goes to distribute the sheep on a rather hazy foundation. Two. The bill is defined as Power Fund's role. The purpose of this bill is to further explain the role of Power Fund. It is clear in the report that the purpose is to add more fully to the role of the fund. However, there are a few questions. It says in 2 gr. The bill, by permission of the President: The energy fund's hard work is to promote the economic use of national energy resources through funding or loans, in particular for reducing fossil fuels use and increasing the use of domestic renewable energy sources. Energy sources also support projects that contribute to energy security and competitiveness in energy and energy related tasks on the basis of energy policy, innovation policy, regional policies and government policies. All right. There are various policies that the Power Fund should support. They are not always uniform. The government's policy on climate change does not always speak together, nor does innovation and climate policy always speak together. These policies need to be consistent, and that is not necessarily given. In order to assess the impact of each action on all these policies, there is a need for professional knowledge. I would also have thought that in the management of the fund, people should be chosen in the highest order of energy efficiency, people with good professional knowledge in their fields, in order to get the best out of their best projects, the most practical projects, the tasks most likely to deliver us better energy efficiency and faster energy exchanges. Then we have to be there people who are inside of these matters, not just people who are Ministers in a way or who are ready to be, we should say a little yes-man by what a minister wants to do at any time, but people who can give professional opinions on each proposal and can develop the fund's work on a professional basis. It is of utmost importance that we use our energy resources more fully, that, for example, we use it. This is gonna be a lot better than we're doing right now. This can be, for example. can be made with a more practical or better building on a better source of heat. It has not been strongly emphasized in the Icelandic construction industry to build up houses so that less heat can be lost. It has not been given enough emphasis. There's nothing given, if a minister just chooses people who agree with him, that new and practical solutions feel so strengthened. It is often referred to as making better use of electricity and an effort to use less electricity and more, but it is not being examined, e.g. new and better homes and technology that could enable us to use half as much hot water, even less, and reach the same comfort. It would be just as pleasant to our home, the wonderful quality of life that we have heard in our home, and not everyone is freezing out of cold in the winter as is often in Europe, where many people are saving their living expenses. We don't have to live with it in this country. Still, we have not properly contributed to the development of the construction industry so that better heating is being achieved. Also, technology has been developed that ensures better energy efficiency, has been developed for decades around us. That is why such technology is also likely to get on a controlled level. It's, for example. a great knowledge of this field in Germany. There, governments regularly give strength to this group of languages to stimulate the development of the platform for user users, for innovation, and for the manufacturer. This also needs to be done in the case of geologic heating, and a measure of vision is needed, and vision and understanding of the case is needed in order to initiate it. I wouldn't trust myself to do that, because I don't have any training in that field or experience. I think it is very important that in this very work, people who have this knowledge, skills, and experience will be used to support pioneers. And right now, as we look ahead on the climate, when we see how important it is to make good use of our energy and also to use it to reduce emissions, it is important that people who are very capable of their policy. Here are five policies that energy sources should be used for implementation. But there is no priorities. It's just some kind of thing. So I guess it's just a minister who decides what's going to be on top of it, how best to use the budget this year. But this may not be done according to any particular overall future vision, for we know that ministers often think a little in terms of terms, what can be completed at an acceptable time, e.g. 1 year. But we know that the battle against climate addiction is a much larger and longer project that most needs the vision of those who do not wait to be re-scheduled in a year. We need to aim for a technical transfer and adjustment of the systems in this country. It is extremely important to increase energy efficiency in geoenergy efficiency because, at present, it is too aggressive. It doesn't matter how this is done. So it is also true that no matter what assignments are being given or not. That is why it does not mean putting people on this government that is even seduced by a cool corneal show without knowing what is behind and whether what is being suggested is really practical and natural. I've heard a lot of it showing that the board is being made to consult the Power Institute for professional advice, if I understand this correctly. That's why there's no need to be a professional member of the board. I don't understand why it shouldn't be a professional government that can also seek professional advice. Why should we have an unprofessional government that can consult the Power Institute but choose just to disagree with it and make decisions on a unscrupulous foundation? There is nothing that makes this administration obligated to base their decisions on the distribution of funds on a professional basis, nothing. It's a matter of concern. I mentioned an ancient climate fund, and although I mentioned it as a model in the way the government is organized, I also want to name it as a warning example. This source on Energy Fund says that these changes will not result in greater financial costs, yet we are moving faster toward more energy exchanges and better energy efficiency. Why should this not cost more money than it has so far? If the focus is on improving energy exchange, more energy efficiency, etc. How, then, should we not want to spend more money in order to handle these matters better? But because I mentioned a climate fund, a respectable president, in 2012, it was that I believe, which the climate fund was set up and the plan was that 50% of all carbon bills would flow into it. In Germany the arrangement is that all carbon expenditures flow to climate, climate, understandable, of course. We are paying to pollute, and the money we pay to pollute should be used to reduce the pollution and damage it brings. But this is where they didn't live long. It was canceled by the next government, the government of the government. Secretary of finance, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, and then prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, now inexorably. Senator. They cut it off and put a climate fund on the budget. The outcome was certainly true. We can only imagine if 50 percent of all carbon bills were in the fund - rentan of carbon charges were about 6 billion last year and the previous year - if we had 3 billion a year in the climate Fund. But what's in it now? There are about 80 million for distribution. Wonder what we have missed out on big opportunities and how successful we would have been if from 2012 we had dropped at least 2 or 3 billion per year. It may also be the largest critical point at this bill that the Power Fund should be on the budget, should be totally on the minister's hand. He's not supposed to be professional. This is so ambitious. This is so much accommodating to the urgency of all this, the energy exchange, the climate. Wondering how many billions of us have in a climate fund now if it hadn't been deactivated by a former government. It has not been fixed, but in the time of that government, which regularly boasts that no one has done as much on climate. However, it has no ambition to place half, just half, of all the carbon costs in climate and climate-related projects. Of course, that is rather ambitious. I'm not against the bill, but I think it's ambitious. It's supposed to be just for some reason, and it's all too often, Mr. President, that things are going to be a bit of a fluffy in this house and I'm tired of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir for an interesting speech. As mentioned in the preceding discussion, I may not be quite at the same place about the subject and the like. I didn't mean to talk to him about it. A senator. I agree, however, that the government could have gone further, making professional demands on her. As a pleasure, I looked up who is on the consulting committee and found out that a president is a bad man. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson. Actually, it would have been nice to see him participate in the discussion today, since he's probably the most informed man in the house on how the fund works, but that's another matter. Besides him, there's Viðar Árnason, former head of North Energy, and Halla Hrund Logadóttir, who I'm going to let me say is one of our superior energy experts today and is actually a custom at Harvard University, an extremely hot woman who has been doing a remarkable job in connection with climate, north, and the whole energy. In a sense, then, the current minister has at least a fairly professional government. But there is quite another discussion, and I understand the fear that not all are excellent ministers and therefore always this temptation. I'd like to ask you what. Senator on this. Is it really the fear, that all ministers will come, and therefore it would be preferable to demand professional knowledge or professional background?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u125	A respectable president. I just think that a general requirement for professional management and government committees should be made, especially when it comes to sharing public funds. We have many examples of the appointment of party drivers, senators, or some of those who are friendly ministers who are appointed to pay for matters or to distribute some kind of bite. I'm not saying it applies in this case, not at all. But I just think in general that certain demands should be made. I remember when we were still with the advice of men, blessed be the memory of them, and I wanted to come in with the simple acquiesc that the people appointed in the council had the proper education and knowledge. Still, putting it in was a very difficult thing to do. They were people who were supposed to assess the development of a general labour market and decide the salary of members of Congress from then on, and they were now much more able to turn everything into a fire and a joke with a raise in the salary of members of Congress. On the day after my first election at the council, I received this wonderful gift from a dresser or the other. Half the nation was mad at me. We tried to access data on how this decision, the basis of what was fundamental, had been conducted professionally. We couldn't get answers. I just think it's so important that in every administration, in all committees, in all the public quality sharing, whatever they are, the criteria are clearly established, on which foundation is laid, on which basis, on which basis a decision is established. That it should be available, and it should be possible to read from the law, and it is not dependent on just the properness and desire of ministers at a time. I don't think it should matter who's a minister in the manner of rules. [[The president calls.]] It's just that we're supposed to be professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u126	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir for a very good answer. I just want to put my song into the cross and enter the second part of her speech from earlier on, i.e. The amount. Hv. A senator spoke a great deal about what we really are putting little money on this important matter. Counts 'em out. A senator that is not an opportunity to increase the amount? In this context, I'd like to mention how bold it was at the time to go to the heat - repair industry, e.g. This is a heating system in the city. As I know it, it was a macropolitic case in Akureyri because the cost of starting was huge for putting heating into every building there. Happily, the prospective people in the town government at the time of the decision and did enormously, as I entered my talk earlier, for these towns and those villages who have access to heating irrigation. But that meant that at first, a considerable amount of money had to be sunk on the project. Is that not what we need to do now in connection with the energy exchange and the conflicts we battle with climate and natural warming? Do we not have the courage to make bold decisions, even though that may mean that we sometimes need to make high - sounding amounts of money? But like what we're doing. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy talked earlier, however, will finally arrive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u127	A respectable president. Yes, it will take courage and courage and a large investment to carry out the huge task that we face. I'd say that if you add up your money to this fund, it's even more important that professionally be put in it. Of course, as the millions have grown, more than tens of thousands, more than hundreds of millions, the temptation to use it properly is created. Hv. A senator spoke of it as a great measure of mind and a powerful force in deciding to use heat - supply systems. Now we are, for example. To see that hydrogen could be a very big solution for the future. But we want them to look, and we need someone who sees that we're going there now, and it's worth spending a few billion at the cost of achieving energy exchange, to achieve better energy efficiency. To do so, we need people who are well - versed and who have some vision and who have been studying, who have passion for these matters, and who are familiar with them. Because of what? The senator mentioned counsellor, that it's just quite ordered, I think it's also a little hard in its nature to appoint party to counsellors who can't advise a minister of any thing. I feel a little different when we have some kind of control. There is no such thing. It is not even a vow that they need to have some knowledge of the seminary. I don't think that's a good idea. That is why I want to see people with professional knowledge, education, experience, and skills in managing this project, people who give them some sort of professional support on how money will be handled in order to be very interested, just to be able to be far - reaching. [[The president calls.]] We need to know where we are going to go in order to get on the road.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u128	A respectable president. Some of the things about this blessed Power Fund. It's like they've been talking about here and what. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has several times reminded us of an interesting context regarding this fund and other relatively comparable funds, such as Food Fund and Climate Fund, in which there are various requirements for those in the management board. It is remarkable when you think of a certain scattered system being stored up. It is not the combined use of a certain level of professional knowledge that you will be able to see. An organization of funds and governments and government committees on the behalf of the government does not depend on just one source of legislation that can be used if it is to be controlled over some small part of the game. The second is that it is a three - man government that could use very much knowledge in other parts of the administration, hopefully and that is likely to have some intertwinment there. But since this fund is to be employed by innovation, energy policy, regional policy, etc., you'd think some kind of management around behind would be very convenient, not just Power Institute. There must be a lot more connections in between. This is a source of a fund with special emphasis on different issues, as has been considered here on the role of Power Fund. It is the economic use of energy resources in the country, the reduction of fossil fuels, the support of activities that promote energy security, the competitiveness of energy and energy related tasks on the basis of energy policy, innovation policy, regional policy and government policy. How extensive this is! You cannot imagine three people holding all of this in a way that would achieve the goals and quality standards that we would like to achieve. If they can do that, it's totally great, but if we're going to do this well, it's a pretty big job for not so many people. Perhaps it would be better if the funds were just a part of a bigger plate, where special knowledge of diffusion is strengthened. There is a variety of knowledge available in the management board that could support similar projects instead of having these scattered, as this system seems to be a bit, a scattered boil system. Admittedly, it is good to have certain knowledge of certain points within such devices, but this is not a requirement for professional knowledge, such as pa·rou·siʹa. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has pointed out. Perhaps not now, it has been discussed during the discussion and why. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter pointed out that the present government seems to be very well structured, but there will always be a minister after that. In four years or when the next appointment starts, something can happen. We have a minister here on our right, which, of course, is not here and has not been seen lately, which carried the order of the director of the media committee and some form of reputation to the Ministry. We have a minister here on the left, who opposed the order of an editor. There is always this sort of thing that comes from time to time, especially when there is no foundation for professional work. And in those cases where professional eating is done, people who have not been around can seek their rights. The situation is very important. When the government distributes best friends, the result for society as a whole is worse society because we don't have the most qualified people in these places to protect our rights, e.g. someone by the courts as we know about national rights, or when it comes to supporting these enormous important projects because the vision may not be quite the same as if we got the best person we could get on this assignment. There is something else that I notice about this bill, but it says that it does not affect the financial situation of the State. Now I have made comments to a few of these cases, where expenses are not measured or affected. Here it is evaluated, but it says that the bill does not affect the financial situation of the state. I'd like to make a little remark as far as it goes. I don't think I'm going to make too much of a comment about this, because technically, this probably doesn't have much effect on the amount of money involved, but it's doing projects, innovation projects. In the case of various government innovations, we have a well - known profiteering value among them. There are, for example. published reports from the Technical Development Fund covering the expected benefits of the projects that have been funded. Such average benefits should, in effect, be included in a bill such as this, where a fund of innovation is being established in some respects. His role is even. to support activities that promote energy security and competitiveness, etc., that are specific energy innovations. It's supposed to lead to a profit for the government fund. For this reason, a person would want to see in terms of influence on the State's financial situation that the matter is said to have a positive effect on the financial situation of the State. It can be based on some kind of staging, which can be seen from similar funds, e.g. Technology fund or something. These provisions will increase our future opportunities. Our major innovation projects are tasks that have really grown the so - called cake. It's a lie, I don't say anything else, it's a lot more complicated, but to simplify it, in the classical sense, it's the bigger the cake. They make new things, think about the future, and build for the future. There's a pretty big job ahead of you. I have listed a few things that will happen over the years that are extremely exciting. First, it is a agricultural field, such as carnivores, leather farming, and vegetable innovations. The land management system as it is now will be destroyed and will make sure that we do not have to sail to sea and catch fish. We can if we want to, but we do not. The mass production of animals really goes on, it becomes unnecessary. Sustainable development will be much more valuable than it has been, which will be very good for Iceland. This is one of the close revolutions we foresee. Another revolution involves energy, especially energy storage and energy production. Our present competitive prelude with hydropower workers and the like will result in a relatively rapid disappearance in the coming years. Sustainable and environmental energy production is so rapidly developing costs that many other countries, hopefully all other countries, will be able to produce energy in a similarly inexpensive way, if not less expensive, and we will do here with our hydropower workers. This will have a tremendous impact on the industry in the country, indeed. Yet, that is not a bad future. There is a very good future, but only an environmentally visible but also regarding opportunities we can take advantage of, e.g. ... self-sustaining. The cost of importing oil products and other products, on energy, is really not necessary in Iceland. And that's exactly what this is about the Power Fund bill. We should get on the edge of sustainable energy in Iceland. That's a priority. The benefits of achieving the technology that even involves exporting and exploiting land and nation are also a matter of saving on the import and climate goals and commitments in that area and so on. If there's any message to the Power Fund that comes out of this, it's looking to the future of sustainability and going on a innovation project that will achieve the future as soon as possible. That is a key factor if we are to live up to our commitments. It is a key key to achieving the world's future that as many nearby communities are self-sustained by energy. If we have a sustainable energy industry, anywhere in the world, concomitant development of food production, where we are, for example. with carnivores using sustainable energy, not with incinerators or enormous amounts of energy importers, these two will make the world much more peaceful, that is simply so. It's a peace machine. The third revolution then concerns the production of a fourth industrial revolution. It's a three-dimensional printing, the digital structures we've been discussing here at the council and other things. In these three things, the future, a close future, in absolute importance, is that we are developing the potential for technology, such as digital engineering, technology that sustains us for energy needs, and technology for food production, which is driven by both production, manufacturing, and energy production. It will make a world so much better that we must get there as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u129	President. Let's talk about it. paritaprevir In fact, at the end of the year, the Leví of Gunnarsson had become so interesting that I really want to talk to him about digital carpenters, innovations, and carnivores. The thing that attracted my attention might have been that it had to do with the fish, that we no longer had to pick up the water. In many respects, it would be a beautiful prospect to have only animals to be partners with as pets, as many pet owners see them. Earlier in his talk, there was a problem. A senator has a very interesting way of evaluating the financial consequences of a bill. You see, the results are very often negative. Like what? A candidate mentioned in his talk is also sometimes a step forward, sometimes as a result of some changes being made, simply positive for a government fund. This is where I own, for example. ... toimprovennews, to build up heat-cation, as we discussed earlier today, and so on. I wonder, and I'd like to ask. A senator: How do you measure it? Are we talking about a number of jobs? Are we talking about paying taxes, or, as in this case, a decrease in payment, which might have an impact on others?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u130	A respectable president. Assessments of the effect are always extremely interesting and necessary, especially in the environment here. We want to have a choice, so we have laws on public financial matters that reveal different options and explain why one is better than the other. And if there are two similar options, it's actually the politics. After all, it becomes a moral issue which way we choose. It is true that generally the assessment is negative. There is always a certain amount of bean count in progress, and it is not necessary to enforce the part on public finances that takes these steps. Many times I have been complained that it is rather difficult to make accurate cost estimates. I've always said it doesn't have to be accurate when we're starting this. We start with a gross cost assessment and gradually learn what creation is easy to use. We develop it and improve it as time passes. We'll learn, see, and make this staging analysis and this cost assessment now. We then determine the effect of the law, compare it with the evaluation we expected, and see if it's in plus or minus. We adapt our ability to examine and predict future evaluations on the next major projector. We learn and do better and become more specific. By doing so, we gradually remind ourselves of the cost of making cost money. I hope this is going to be more automatic because we know the word more. But we don't know anything, and we won't learn anything if we don't even start with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u131	President. I'm gonna let myself agree. Senator on this. It should, at least, be to be said that there will be positive or negative consequences, even if numbers are not given for a dollar or a penny. It could also be said that the cost to the State is at the beginning. This, however, results in increased income from somewhere or at a lower expense elsewhere, such as the highest. The president discussed, for example. in a few moments ago, in conjunction with the heating system and the benefits that can come from finding hot water. It must be viewed as a positive result. But that positive result may not come over the years. It'll take her a year to return to the state fund. But that does not change the results of their success and not just in their dollar and pennies. Actually, it's one of the things I've been talking about at the council, that we also have to look at the positive social consequences, especially in matters that are different in different ways in the country. Then I'd like to ask. A member of Parliament: How does he feel that there are also positive results to be considered here, the cohesive glasses set up, and the impact of a prime projector as assessed by them? That may not be possible. I think, in this case, it's a social appendage of that, for example. feeling hot water, much like in crowns.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u132	A respectable president. I had already foretold that question. I had even begun writing down the social effects. I was going to mention them just because at least at first what we want, they have a size grey mass of effect. It can be several million, tens of millions, or hundreds of millions. What is the degree? Let's start there. It's not supposed to be that hard. The second factor is that the cost and impact estimates of the bills are related to government goals. Governments usually provide basic laws and plans for some goals that usually appear in the government budget for which they are to account for their policy. They must put forth an issue to achieve this policy. In government policy, however, efforts are being made to achieve prosperous goals. Such goals do not necessarily bring a dollar's profit but, for example, have a new one. to discuss increased rights or access to making hot water. Then you can have a level of prosperity that measures how many cold areas there are, or hopefully how few, i.e. the proportion of Icelanders living in hot areas. The estimated benefit of this to 20 years of age is that the bioavailability to the warm areas of Iceland is increased by 5%, regardless of population growth in each region. Behind it is definitely some crown number, quite booked case, and perhaps you can have some kind of informed guess of who it will be. At any rate, it would be an enormous improvement to get involved with government social goals and prosperity goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u133	President. I would like to reiterate my desire to the council president to direct it to the highest level. Tourism, industrial and innovation, to show the council the respect to come here and discuss the bill she requested about Energy Fund. Power fund, which precedes Power Institute and makes its own. Energy funds, sometimes a quarter of a million dollars of public money. The energy fund, which she's about to put three parties into the full self. The energy fund, which has no professional advice, as set in the Food Fund, is to ensure that the professional perspective and less moral hazard would control the distribution of public funds, which would also have to be done at the Power Fund because of the important role that the Energy Fund is to play. Energy funds, where there is no way to see the treatment but not to prevent the moral problem and to have a professional view guided by the distribution of this capital. It is minimal for a minister to come and discuss the bill she has provided, which the employment committee does not want to act in harmony with what was done in the case of Food Fund to ensure that a professional view is rather guided and that less moral hazard is involved in the distribution of funds. [[The president calls.]] It's the minimum. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers come here and discuss their own bill, why can't you change it to the council on these professional grounds. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u134	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u135	A respectable president. I would like to agree with this request because this is a very important question. V.E.G. A minister can easily say: Of course I will order professionally. And it's not hard, as far as one minister is concerned. But what if the present secretary of finance were ever in the years ahead - hopefully not yet -- and assumed positions, but then it would be found that the minister of that matter had violated an equal law against an order, or a former Justice Minister, or even that the current Ministry of Education would suddenly become in that position and think, " I don't need to consider professional opinions. ' I can only appoint my friends. This is important, especially in the situation we are now, that a minister is concerned only with his reasons not to have professional standards there, for fear of fear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u136	President. I asked at the Parliamentary Conference Office if the minister had answered her intention to attend and discuss her own bill, which has not been changed on professional approach and less temptation. The General's Office does not know that a minister has answered, so since this is the last chance to have a word with a minister of her own case, I wish to be put at the end of a rosary because I can only hold two of the 3rd districts. I have only two opportunities to have a word with a minister on the matter, one is gone, but I want to keep the other. So I'd like to go to the end of the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u137	Mr. President. This is a rather interesting subject that we're discussing here, not only because of the content, which has certainly been in place, and I will now make my main concern here, but also because of the criticism that has been presented in the processing of the Committee. I'm not on the committee that's covered this matter but I'm on other committees where we've been dealing with the same issues, i.e. We have been working on a case where careful criticism has shown certain points that have not been given enough coverage. Thus, a case has been completed in this way more often than not-- okay, I'm going to back it up, it may not be quite more than not - but it's too often that a good thing goes in the direction of thinking that you can be comfortable with some little toll and change, but it's going to get in trouble because there's something or two that can't be achieved. It seems that a person is more stubborn than a person is at odds with some point of change. I haven't got one yet, e.g. Just how this treasure could not be reviewed, why could it not be met with ideas of reevaluating how it was under control, so that it could have been met with the views that have not only been torn out of the platform but also made very clear in certain reviews. I'll mention the history of Val energy, for example. That's what I wanted to say. Sometimes I feel like we're digging our own pits, so I'm just saying it as it is. The changes in Energy Fund targeted by the bill are both good and timely in many respects. I see a reason to agree specifically on the role of the fund specified, to contribute to the economic efficiency of national energy resources through funding or loans, in particular to reduce fossil fuels use and to increase the efficiency of domestic renewable energy sources. It is very good to see the interest of governments, and not so much later loved ones, in increasing the budget and more explaining its role. Rather, we would have wanted to see, for example. dissemination of either in the management of the fund or otherwise, would come to decision-making parties who would be particularly inclined to bring the sledge, Mr. President. These people would bring in through our innovations, whether they're in the college community or they're really the best people we've ever made in this world because we have people there. I would have thought it would be very important to take this good step that we take advantage of the opportunity to encourage the opportunity of people who are educated in this sector to have a place here, not to put a stone into the street of their entrance, but to make sure that it is not least these people who have access to decision making and other things. Then I'd like to discuss the public access to information on the funds of the fund. The views are developed in the reviews of the Industrial Association that increasing transparency in the administrative sector is important and under the law on fund that he published a yearly report on the activities and support of projects. Please refer to Enova, Norway, which is in full agreement with the operation of Energy Fund, and is more experienced, like the Norwegian people all are already in agreement with us. Please refer to the Industrial Association in the bill, but there is no reason to react in any way other than to have a pretty rich licence for Ministers on the conditions of energy fund donations, on the preparation of distributions, etc. Then further regulations on the activities and organization of the fund and the implementation of the law continue to be submitted by the minister. This is good and blessed when we're lucky with a minister, worse when we're not. It's just not necessary when such a new system of laws is started with a goal we're all here, I think, pretty much in agreement, we're in hand at the law of transpiring state, and we're going to follow certain rules that we all agree on. This bill is not much of a reading, it's not a very complicated level. There's often a lot of complications, complicated laws, a lot of text that makes it easier to move some of it to a minister's legal rights, or if there's much change anticipated, there's a market for which the law is intended, but it's not relevant here. There is no need for this Regulation to be opened. So I would have liked to see it a little different. There's been a lot of talk about the arrangement of the fund, and I'm coming in on it, too. That's still another thing, 'cause I don't know why they didn't respond to the comments they said they should have made differently. There is nothing wrong, and I am truly guilty also, not to agree with every saying that comes, and that they may come together to meet one another. But I don't think that there is a lack of logic, especially when more than one comment and more than two are in the same direction. We can refer to examples of the corresponding funds that have gone this way and are thoroughly reasoned with them. I need an explanation for why they don't do it here. I think there's a great need to rethink this. Again we come to see that we, with such a law, are in the palm of the mind to have a certain opinion of what the viewpoint is, what knowledge, what ability we are getting into this fund with the government, whether it is done by increasing the size of the board or by having an arrangement different, or by being subject to submanagement, professional management, or how it is. It is the debate that would have been helpful to read from a committee program that had been included in the Committee, not just that this is a reason to consider this. It's also that thing with transparency, and maybe we're a little bit preoccupied with it, me and my associates in the Uphold. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Steindór Valdimarsson was fighting to get specific information about the supplies on the basis of the agricultural market. We certainly found them deep on such information, which is simply completely crazy when you think about where the coin comes from and what it's meant to be. If something is to be followed by distribution rules and to be worked by clear rules, this is exactly what it is, i.e. the management of money and especially when it is intended for funding. The review of Iceland's Natural Science Agency shows that, among other things, there is no evidence that this is the case. In view of the role of the fund in climate management, the fund should also be able to support energy related tasks that contribute to or take into account the government's environmental protection policies. According to the Institute of Nature, the Environment and Resource Ministry is directly involved in the management of the fund. There's one way. Then I'll find out what good it would be to get out of the grasslands with knowledge or with an opinion on these matters. I can see that an environmental agency can appoint governments or members who have expertise in the field and can ensure the professionalism that these activities require. I think we're all very aware that our best knowledge of this field will not be the best knowledge in a few years, that's so much evolution in this, so we need the courage to let people with the power, new knowledge, and large ideas and opinions of the table in these matters. And, of course, in the process of winding down what we know as political commands to governments that, although the purpose may be good for those to whom it commands, are inexhaustible and do not work. It's just that you don't have to do this against the goal that we've all agreed on, and it's building public trust in the government. It won't. I'm just saying. I don't have to state that I don't have any confidence in the current minister who orders the board or the people he appoints, it's not about the characters, it's about the rules of the game. They need us. That's why I hate such small and simple language, i.e. I speak in terms of the text and scope of the bill, and in such a good way that we don't go that way. I would have liked to see this changed, and especially in view of the fact that the matter will be called after 2nd. where the decision was made to make some changes that I don't know well enough, but which were related to growth, which is the best. We need to be clear, too. But I'd like to see the committee take another turn on this and take a serious talk and reason, but don't get that sort of a both because it's just a result of all these comments and criticism to the relevant person who wants it well because it's a good thing. It would have been very nice to see it going through this council with flying missiles instead of getting into this kind of criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u138	President. Yes, this could have been very successful, for our goals are excellent, and the views that need to be considered are excellent. The minister just wants to solve the whole thing. It's such a stringy thing you sometimes see in counsellors. They just want to hire themselves. That's why you can't really just ruin things and ruin them. Of course, this will be damaging when elected agents have to go up into a pit and prevent an arrangement where the minister is in control of the situation of temptation, and a professional view of temptation will not be able to convey it. Like what? A senator mentioned earlier things are changing very quickly. Let's go over what this fund is to do. It is, in effect, to promote the efficiency of energy resources, to reduce the use of fossil fuels and to increase the efficiency of domestic renewable energy sources. Adding to energy security, competitiveness in energy and all of this needs to be consistent with energy policy, innovation, regional policies and state climate policy. It's enormously broad, and it's turning really fast. However, there are three members of the board whom the Minister himself commands, acting by his regulations. This will be the case after approval of the prime minister as the employment committee must not change once, on the grounds of which it was made, in contrast with what was e.g. ... withtheFoodFoodflightfowlandthat. There should not even be any professional requirements for the three parties involved, so no, this is the worst treatment and proposal in the highest. Minister, not being able to just submit to the fact that it is not in control. She needs to realize that when it comes to the viewpoint that professional viewpoints in the process of handling taxes, it is important to do so. I see that the minister is in the hall, but I'll take my heart with my ass. A senator wants to ask if she is surprised by the fact that a professional committee and those who supported the issue but do not have a view of professional grounds are not even reasonable. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They said that they thought it was enough. They just think that it's enough to have people choose on the basis of minimum requirements. [[The president calls.]] They think that's enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u139	President. This is exactly what it's all about. It's such a wonderful role. We can go the other way and say: This is not necessarily the largest fund in the country when it comes to the money it is currently given, but it does not diminish the importance of the assignment he has. Like what? A senator is involved in this project on the basis of energy policy, innovation, regional policy and government policy. It's not a simple thing or a small matter. Hv. A senator asks if I am surprised that the knots were taken from the committee. I'm going to continue to be surprised when we work like this. It's a given-over, to stop, I think. I'm sorry, and I think we should start to develop a critical attitude about ourselves in this work and listen to rumors and criticisms, even when they are subject to something that we find difficult to swallow. Then I come to the word "veiling, " as it were. A senator has talked about, we are often used in public discussions in this country to make personal decisions, and there may be every reason to do so, the discussion is often critical, but we must, if we are going to be successful in securing transparency and having clear rules, in order to learn not always to be defensive when it comes to creating situations that can be abused. There is a fundamental difference between criticizing their situation and accusing someone or anyone of corruption, and we must maintain that difference. [[The president calls.]] You can blame it when you have reason or proof of it. [[The president calls.]] However, we must be able to make a comment in that situation so that it is possible to do so. We must be able to discuss this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u140	President. That's exactly why I use the word "rotten" because I don't want to personalize it. I don't want to tell these or these Ministers specifically, unless I have very strong proof that he will abuse power or use public power for special interests. That is the basic definition of corruption because we have already created this Kingdom Hall in order to protect certain global interests. The U.S. Constitution puts it as life, freedom, and search for happiness. There is some purpose in setting up such a government institution, and it is to work on the public interest rather than on special interests. But it is a temptation problem, and in some respects it has been a political businessman for a very long time in a representative democracy society. [[The president calls.]] It's a problem if people start using public power for special interests, which, in turn, help with vote fishing. This is the basic issue of today's political affairs. [[The president calls.]] That is why it is so important that we close the door to the temptation problem. [[The president calls.]] Here, it is done by ensuring that, at the same time, there are much more professional views on the processing, processing and implementation of public funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u141	The President reminds me of why. Senators at the speaking time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u142	Mr. President. Hv. A senator was so generous over his speaking period that he did not have time to ask the question, but I intend to complete my meditation with the first answer. Eight. The bill is this Regulation authority and it's nothing new. I think, as I've made it, we're all too used to use regulations, sort of, so if anything goes wrong with that, we don't have to take some position on it. But this is quite broad, and requires something that a minister should put in a Regulation, i.e. Further guidelines for contributions from the fund and the preparation of contributions and loans and loans and interest and monitoring of activities, etc. This must be done by the minister. Section 8. The Power Fund can then provide additional rules and conditions if it seems like that, and then thirdly a minister is permitted to set even more regulations. It's pretty wide, pretty big and big. Maybe it's just because it's short and smooth about a good thing that's gonna cut in your eyes like that. I don't think it's worse than many other things we've done, but it's just so obvious here. [[The president calls.]] That's why it would have been so good to see the opportunity here to work this different because it's such a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u143	A respectable president. I'm gonna make good use of these two minutes. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son for history We are discussing the management of this treasure, the need for many to have professional knowledge when it comes to order of the government. The majority of the articles in this committee have said that his response to the criticism that there is no qualifications for order in this management is that his understanding is that the management is obliged to consult the Power Institute or other experts on what is appropriate, as the members of the committee's list of aspects. When I read it, I feel a little bit like it's being created a very political government that, just like Ministers, when they bring in the bills, or members of Congress, when we go through the council with suggestions or bills, ask professionals for information on what is going to be done. As a result, I feel that I have the right to have these political orders and that these political parties need to seek professional advice. Instead of having professionals who can, of course, also seek advice, who are expected to seek advice, the political parties are to seek professional advice. [[The president calls.]] Would this not have been easier on the other side?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u144	Mr. President. This is an interesting reflection and is absolutely right. I agree, but with them I would also like to be careful that we put a spot on political agents that they can't be the job at all growing, or likely to screw up or take them in a different direction, but in the way that the public interests are the best served. That too is where we are in trouble. Again, only guidelines and transparency are important. If we in politics make it so that there's no rules of play, I couldn't agree with that. A senator that the pros in there should have something to say on this matter. As for these wolves, for to seek out stories, this matter is due to increase the independence of the fund. It's like allowing the baby to walk and lead it forward, that Power Fund will continue to lead it, rather than to trust it, but make the knots so that it can probably walk, so I'll go far enough with this cheap illustration. It's all too interesting that we should take this approach, to keep it so completely open and undefined who is the one weighing there. It almost sounds like it's supposed to be a drawer division in the Ministry, it's something you read out of this. I reiterate that I have not been in committee discussions, and I don't know if there's anything that has just been knocked off the board or if it's even the idea. But when you read it and try to make up the gaps that are here, it's just somehow what comes to mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u145	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, when all ends, is at the top. The minister is absolutely the authority of decision there. I want to prevent the misunderstanding that I feel that elected agents cannot do their job. Of course, there is a sharp difference between elected representatives and individuals appointed to the government by a minister. Because we obviously cannot be experts in all the matters we take in, the emissary agents are authorized from the nation to take care of national policies and are elected to do so and to seek counsel. Similarly, we need to be guided by conviction. I think it's different than being appointed under a fund to appreciate professional applications and projects that should provide a certain national benefit. Maybe that's what I was talking about. That's why I'm talking about political superiority on this government and asking if it wouldn't be the least to have skills and experience conditions in there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u146	Mr. President. Yeah, I realized we're talking about the same part over there, there's no question. We're a skin-year class, I just wanted to make it clear that it wasn't about how I wanted to keep the politics out completely. But there may be one way - this case is likely to go through like this, and it was also stated in the review of the Industrial Association - that it would be required by law to publish a public report on the operation. It was somehow, if I understand this correctly, musicd down into the activities of the greater part, so it would be enough to appear in the energy agency's annual report. In any case, if there is no translucency in an order, there could be no confirmation at work so that it would be revised and we would have clear and easy access to the extent of the distribution, proportions, and other factors, and where this would take place, so that we would have a surveillance role on that side. [[The president calls.]] There would be another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u147	A respectable president. This is exactly this possibility of the political intervention that is being brought to the attention. Political contributions do not lead to the best projects being funded unless perhaps by accident. Of course, it can, but it is random. The problem is that political reasons do not match professional logic when it comes to taking into account the role of the fund in its enormous diversity; energy security, competitiveness, energy policy, innovation, regional policy, and climate. This is not a microchip machine to be taken into consideration. I miss a little bit that there is self-sustaining not even though energy policy, innovation and climate policy are, of course, largely dependent on sustainability. But it should also take into account sustainability and stress that it is an important objective of this fund. But because we want to avoid political deportations and political involvement in professional activities, this is, like, the driving force. In contrast, a senator points out that in this small, simple matter, there is no arrangement similar to that of other funds. I wanted to achieve this great difference between the political reasons for choosing tasks and professional support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u148	Mr. President. Yeah, this is the point, and if I could just answer it in two minutes, I'd be different from here. But what makes this question so interesting is what is stated in 2 Peter 3: 1. The bill, these four major policies. All of us, everything that matters to us as a community, both country and nation, is enormously important. It is not hard to imagine a situation where one strikes another corner politically. Any task might be considered in the disposal of a fund suitable for one of this policy but is not suitable for another, a classic example that may arise. Under these circumstances, political leaders are very likely to arrive at a conclusion other than professional subjects. And not necessarily worse, politics may be more likely to consider more things and even better in the big movie. But these things need to be on the table. I can easily imagine the situation that such a thing will happen. Then we take a stand. It is not transparent, and the common people feel that something unclean has happened there. There may be some explanation, but it does not come to the surface because there is a game playing. Maybe that's what we're talking about. We always come to this again and again. We're very good at talking about trust, and we'd like to increase the confidence of the public in the general government, not necessarily in the case here, I'm talking about the big picture. But I believe that transparency and guidelines are key there, not necessarily that everyone agrees with the rules, but that they know that they're fundamental. [[The president calls.]] It's always this noodle. It doesn't have to be there, but it's likely to be if there's no transparency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u149	A respectable president. Take the next step up. It's under there, like a oo. A senator mentions, energy policy, innovation policy, regional policy, and government policy on climate. There's the politics. That's where politicians paint the big movie that the management board and the experts and the professionals do. And always, in those cases where there is such an advantage, it will find its way into the political scene after all. The project is clearly approaching the objective set by the political bitch in these major policies affecting the role of the fund. These are the professional factors and projects that are obviously chosen to achieve them. There's a political interference, but they're just right in painting the big movie, holding the big picture, not choosing individual tasks for special parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u150	Mr. President. That's exactly the way it is. It's all political in it as it should be and that's why it would have been a good thing for her to be at least transparency, the politics that occurs here at the order of this administration. I come back to the question, why not? We have discussed it here today, and there have been cases of other funds or recent cases where this has gone differently. I have full understanding that there are a lot of complications, especially these first steps, while the sums are not higher than they are, being with a number of subconventional committees, etc. It can be rottener than dead, and it all can be. But there could have been another way, and then I'll come back to what's a bit of the exit point, that there's no reason for this. [[The president calls.]] It's this 'cause it's only a 4:30 move when it's not supposed to change anything. [[The president calls.]] It could have been avoided here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u151	Mr. President. In my first speech, I did a little bit of the work that Energy Fund has funded over the past few years, which are extremely important to society and also provide opportunities for us abroad. I wanted to use the short time I have to go down into one of their projects, the only kind of them, that are thermal pumps. Energy funds were funded between 2006◯2018 twelve background pumps in Snæfellsville, Langanes, in Seysafjörður, and elsewhere. Lip pumps are extremely interesting, and there is no Carnot to discuss it, it is important technology, and it has increased its use. I know best of the thermal pump project in Western countries, but to describe only the process, 1 MW electricity is used to pump up a sea between 8 and 12°C hot according to the situation. The sea is driven through a tube connected to another ammonia-containing straw. This temperature is natural, it reduces the temperature from the water and lowers its temperature to 5°C. Ammonia is then introduced to a pressure that increases the pressure on it, and from there it is passed on to a freshwater tube where fresh water is warm, is warm, and returns to around 70°C warm. The power to penetrate this system is equal to 1 MW, but the heat power that goes out of the system is 4 MW. There will be a fourfold extension of the efficiency of electricity by cooling the water down to 5°C. This is of incredible benefit to even larger towns than the Western Islands, and there are 30 times as many residents in Reykjavík alone, and there are no cold areas on the West or on the East Coast. And if we were a little smart, we could export this technology to use in larger cities, where the water is reasonably warm. I mention, for example. Boston, as a very good example, has no telecommunications of the kind we know in Iceland. If this were done, it would use both the energy in that country and be a fairly powerful way to cool the sea because it cools the sea. I think it's pretty important. Although it is not enough to get a grip on greenhouse effect or climate change, it is a small step in that direction and plays into the big context. When I think about Power Fund, I think about this kind of project, the ways we have as a country to finance big ideas that can change communities. There are many communities in Iceland who have benefited from this technology, and there are many communities that will benefit from it. But this is a bit dependent on the fact that there is money and knowledge in the fund in order to do this in enough ways. As we look at what's going on, there's a greater demand for electricity through electrical services and in other ways. We can no longer burn just an archaeologist who has become an oil source for all of our energy. We need to use the energy we produce. This includes making better use of all the energy we produce today than we did yesterday. If we are not a little open to the use of the best possible professional knowledge available at any time and such funds have some kind of professional or specialization in their management, it is not possible - even though this fine project has been well - funded, perhaps not well - funded enough, but it has gone well over the past few years - that we will lose the thread at some point. One day we'll forget why we were doing this, and we can't do that. It is a hard ruler, we all submit to its power, but we do not have to screw things up by being careful and not taking advantage of every opportunity we have as well as we can at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u152	Mr. President. I was so happy to hear what I heard. A senator will discuss matters that may have been of little importance to us during the discussion here today that are the lip pumps. For cold regions, that technology is incredibly important, as it is suddenly possible to use the small heat that is available at all times. In his illustration of the lip pumps in the Western Islands, a senator mentioned. It is very important for these areas to achieve only the cost of sex, with improved use of available heat. I wanted to thank you. A senator for recording this. We talked about the thermals a little earlier today and what valuable things are in them, but perhaps we forgot to discuss the costs of cold areas. That is why it is so important to strengthen them to use the technology, to reduce their cost, the technology that is more successful. This raises my question about the cost, it's only about 25 million. K. in the energy reserve for the distribution of tasks like this and, in fact, for underground, in isolation of houses, and so on. Counts 'em out. Don't you think a senator would have a reason to promote this aspect of Energy and put more money in order to make more use of the energy and reduce the cost of house warming? [[The president points out that even a whisper at a council hall, if long - term, tends to disturb a speaker (AFE: This was very disturbing.) and would like a long talk to be held outside the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u153	It was very disturbing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u154	and would like a long conversation to be held outside the council hall.)
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u155	Mr. President. Yeah, that's a good question. 25 million for the distribution of various projects will never be of benefit to us. If you look at the projects that Ennis Fund financed between 2016 and 2018, heat pump projects are heat pumps for individual buildings. The task in the Western Islands is considerably larger, and we're talking about one large heat pump system, and I can't remember whether the pumps are three or four in one building. But it's enough to swallow at least a great deal of the community. Clearly, 25 million people never finance projects of that magnitude. It may also be nice to put this into context with the supreme statement. The other day, the head of travel, industrial and innovation at the kitchen day's talk, where she talked about how we couldn't afford it as a community to run all these great systems. I don't quite remember the wording, but I think of the local thermals immediately in that context. We built a heating system in our time because our community needed it because we knew it would be cheaper to build a good heating system than to continue swallowing coal or mo or what it was. This is a better way. If we have thermal pumps that are most widely used, it will cost a lot of money to produce them. But it will save us electrical expenses, cost of swallowing, various types of expenses. It is, in effect, a socially efficient operation. But we can't do it unless there's enough money to build up the technology we know will work and just need more distribution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u156	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. That's exactly the interesting point he entered. He spoke of how important that decision was, but it was only far from an easy decision. Today we look at this decision and think only: It's okay. It's just... It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It was a very wise decision, but it was at one time a heated dispute because it was a natural capital investment. So I'd like to ask you why. In the second answer, why not put more money on searching for hot water in the cold regions? It's a bet, you can hit it or not, but when you see hot water, it's so precious.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u157	Mr. President. When you look at the earth as a single system, we are naturally getting heat from the sun. It's the heat we have, it's gathering up, it's beaming out in some way, we move it around and use it in different ways. In the end, however, the earth's crust is the final heat resource. We have not begun walking on it, but we already find that we need to dig deeper and deeper in various places to get the heat we need. There may be problems with what we do not know properly. I think we should totally look for and use these heat energy when we can, but I think we should also be open to using the heat in the atmosphere and in the water beyond what we do today. That's why I'm so fond of thermal pumps, we can use large amounts of water with a low temperature in the same way that we use small amounts of liquids with high temperatures from the bottoms of the ground.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u158	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for an interesting and good talk about our bill. I took note of his words, which I think we all agree on, that we need to make more use of our energy. Energy may be one of the words that you are almost reluctant to use in political context, after a conversation in an uninterrupted language. But all right: Use our energy better, as well as what he connected so much with, that we would also need to use the best professional knowledge in each field. I'd like to put it into context only with Article 3. The bill on the board. I'm quite trapped there. According to this article, the board of directors oversees the management of the fund. This is in harmony with the role of the fund. An energy agency then cares for the daily management of the fund. Then it may be this point, in the context of the best possible professional knowledge, and this article that a minister ships three individuals on the board for four years, one being appointed head of the board. We've talked about it here tonight, as it were, how best to put a government like this, taking into account the role of the fund, etc. I'm asking why. A senator believes, for I am there now, that the grammatical viewpoints need to be determined, but that it may not always be possible to take the politics off. Is that what it is, considering what it is. The senator, that there should only be three members with the best knowledge possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u159	Mr. President. Yes, although I may have been in my speech a little bit in one particular example, it's all about how the government is and how we're building up the fund. You're absolutely right, and I appreciate it. A senator for dragging me back to the core of the material. And what I'm worried about is that just because a minister really has a desire for a party's order in the administration, there is a motivation which we know completely, in the political context we're in, to choose perhaps someone who is more suitable from political grounds than from scientific grounds. I'm not saying it's gonna happen. It could be that a minister of the ship of the finest scientists possible. True, more is needed than just scientists to run such a good fund. They also need people who know how to run funds, people who know the financial side, people who know the administrative side. But if you don't make a good enough frame of mind on the grounds of such a role, then well - being is likely to go out of the window and be sacrificed on the altar of the politicians. I've only watched it happen too many times, in the few years I've been at the council, that the politicians drum up professionalism. So I agree that it was desirable for some kind of professional order to be involved. Furthermore, we need to consider in a larger context whether or not an ordering method should be in harmony with all such funds and governments in order to ensure a professional approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u160	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a clear and good answer. I mentioned, in the discussion earlier tonight, that I believe that in general the legal process of simply having as much on the table as possible, there is no need for a legal procedure, as we were making fun of it earlier tonight, to be like the morning paper where it is almost as important as it is not said. Then we may come back to this: Do we need to make this a part of the arrangement or not? Don't you think it's good to have this in a court of law? Or are we going to take the approach that a minister is completely self-important? And then there are other views that I confess I just don't have an understanding in this particular case. What is the most important thing? Is it expertise in the field? Is that the business? Is that the board of directors? These are all points of view. A senator mentioned. But there's something in me that I think it's the 3rdr. ... betrayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u161	Mr. President. It's not just 3. ... whichistrayed. The bill is in nine articles, of which one article on taking effect, and this is very little if you think about how a fund is set up and how it should be organized. I think 8. e.g. Very interesting. It says that a minister should more closely set in the Regulation the requirements for making donations from the Energy Fund, preparation of distributions, loans, as well as etc. You wonder, " Is this not the case more correct? ' I don't think that we should go to the legal maximal maximalisma that has been commonly practiced, e.g. In the United States or in the European Union, but perhaps we should at least try to be exact not to address the challenges.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u162	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for an informative talk that informed me of something I had not before fully understood. Although a man may have heard of thermal pumps in the Western Islands, I had not quite fully understood how important they are and have had. Our heat is natural world fame and, as we know, some authorities even wanted to take credit for this project, e.g. Winston Churchill, who claimed to have suggested that when he was here on a trip in his day, he was able to use the hot water somehow and they responded. I am concerned as to the fact that ministers of this board of directors and that ministers are overly concerned about how these matters are being handled because it seems to me that there is a certain tendency, a greater problem, which is that the Ministers often want to take credit for matters where honor is found elsewhere. This will take to heart matters that may have come from the opposition to the government and then present themselves as ministers's affairs. We have countless examples of such things, and we will no doubt continue to receive countless examples of them. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether our hot water is not like oil, a resource like the oil, which we need to look out for, and to be extremely careful, and that it will make us rich beyond measure in the future if right is to be done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it not important, then, that scientists be allowed to interpret it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u163	President has to ask. Councilmen to respect the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u164	Mr. President. We have a recent example of how things can work out better when scientists are in charge rather than politicians, i.e. in the Covid situation. Not that we should always put all our power into the hands of anonymous officials or even those called officials, but we must always be political and political responsibility. However, it should not be that if individual politicians do so, they become fanciful or even do bad things. I'm not going to waste my time giving a number of recent experiences from the United States on how that can be done. But you're right. The heat under Iceland may not be oil in the sense that we can transport it out and mokgize it. But we can use it to develop our community faster and better if we choose to make good use of it. This was just such a procedure. We were able to use a varsity to bring the nation forward. We took off to a high house in one generation, and we can do even more than that if we didn't fall into the habit of agreeing to the foul and ridiculous idea that we can't afford to run a community. Of course, that's absurd. We can afford it, and we're supposed to export the technology we have. We're supposed to make better use of that technology. We're supposed to keep it developing. But let us not assume that the vegetation we receive from living on a mantle is necessarily something that we will live forever. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u165	A respectable president. Now it's time to watch out. I totally share that opinion. A senator's need for a measure of tension between scientists and an elected public representative, a political representative, is that scientists also need their democratic means of living, so they cannot control a journey entirely alone. On the other hand, the best available knowledge must always be based. But that's the right to follow what I was talking about back there: feeling bad. A senator could not expect much more to be done by trying to put money and energy into finding hot water in cold areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u166	Mr. President. Yeah, I mentioned the blue valves on the first answer to the mantle collar. In fact, there are two places in the world that are built on a mantle chest in the way we have here, the other place is Hawaii. I really want us to continue developing technology with the ability to use it here as effectively as possible but also develop it with the intention of moving it to other countries. I believe thermal pumps are much better examples of exporting technology. Iceland, however, is far from the only country with thermal pumps. But if we could sell cities like Boston Icelandic thermal pumps, it would really be a major change in the nature of our economy, I think. Of course, while we should look for hot water in cool areas and thus expect to make them warmer areas, it is an overlap in priorities, in my opinion, than in the use of e.g. the heat in the sea, use the technology we can move out, make it better, and also exportable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u167	Mr. President. This has been a very interesting discussion, and many points have been made clear. I would like to look at matters that are truly related. I think it can truly be said that, in a sense, Iceland is the land of energy. We are a society that is so lucky to have energy sources that are very interesting and capable of creating and creating vastly valuable things in the country. It doesn't have to be remembered before then. Councilmen that we have activated water supply for a long time, have hydropower workers of various sizes and shapes, which in many ways have been the basis for a number of projects, large and small that have been carried out here. Then we are, as the above discussed quite a bit in the previous speeches. Senators, also fortunately, Iceland is at the point where there's a lot of heat in the centres of the earth and we can use the heat from the earth to build them up as hot water or hot steam. We've been slowly learning how to harness and make use of it, and we are fortunate enough to be able to raise most of Iceland's entire home by geotherm. Then there are other energy sources that we haven't done much so far, we're like, taking the first steps to use wind power, which is a most exciting option. And I'd like to mention, too, which is now this way at a stage of ideas and experiments in many parts of the world, and people are considering that here, too, that they are operating the marine energy or the tides to generate energy. In this regard, we live under circumstances that many may envy. All of this has led to the development of energy industry and energy efficiency. It is enough to include a company such as Land induction, which has largely supervised the generation of water sources. And we have had considerable experience of running electrical systems throughout the country, often in extreme weather conditions, and having to travel through mountains and all sorts of impossible and difficult places, so we know it. Then we have big companies running heat plants and taking care of their business. Throughout many of these, we have developed a great deal of knowledge about engineering, technology, and engineering. We have gradually been gaining that knowledge from other countries. There are Icelandic companies, or companies, whose roots are in this region that are taking on big projects, big counselors in many parts of the world, and taking on heat - control work, and then on the streets. But then I might go through this with the Power Fund, because I think there's so much underdeveloped opportunities to make practical use of all these conditions that we have here to create even more knowledge and export, based on intelligence and creating jobs here on both technology and development, the engineering services of various kinds and designs involved in these matters. There's been a growth of business, some of which have a long history. I'd like to mention, for example. The company set at Selephoss, which has achieved tremendous success in producing a variety of thermal plants and repairs, is very successful there. Then we have an enterprise that's been working on a range of software to control energy consumption. These include Margour, who has, in fact, entered a foreign company, with a range of control tools around the ships'oil processing. What I've always wondered about is - now I see that my time is over so that I'll have to go to another speech below, but I'm just going to mention it right at the end and sin a little bit over the time that we're producing little or none of the equipment around energy. [[The president calls.]] I've always been amazed, and I'll be there in a second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u168	Has the senator not spoken twice? President will see. Let's say first, though, there are some, this powerful speech has sparked a great need for an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u169	President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. Hv. A senator identified a few things that may have been a little lacking in the discussion today, in effect, the methods we use to produce energy. It is the hydropower, the aquifers, and, increasingly, the wind power, and the innovations associated with this, which are naturally enormous. But I'm sorry, like a yak. A senator came to the close, we have been submerged by other nations when it comes to securing our own patents, especially on the surface of the earth. It's a concern, and if I remember correctly, we've discussed it before at the Senate Hall that we have to somehow strengthen it. We have been taking steps to increase our knowledge of the area of patents and to encourage our experts in this regard, for they are indeed many, like young men. A senator came in. In this context, I would like to ask you why. A senator whether he does not consider it just an opportunity to promote technology, and then possibly through technical development funds as well, in this area, and if there is not just reason to emphasize more emphasis on the practicality of the knowledge that truly exists in the country. At least we should try to ensure its practicality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u170	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is good. As I mentioned, I think we can do a lot more and more. But I'm not saying that nothing was done at all. We have done much in this regard. But, hey. A senator mentioned a patent, and I've been honest that over the years and decades, there have been many solutions, ways to solve a number of problems, whether in the area of the hydropower workers or, perhaps most, in the area of the earth's crops. There have been many clever solutions to problems, and humans have shown amazing intelligence, design, and design of all kinds of gadgets. And all of this, in the end, worked. They may not have thought, though, that if visitors came, they would be able to make up the goods that could be sold, not to defend it, but to speak with pride if they came, showed, and said: Yes, heard. This is how we solved it. We just do it like this. Then the foreigners go home and do things like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u171	President. Hv. A senator entered an important point. The use of geothermals is an amazing phenomenon. To be able to start a volcanic eruption, if we do so simply in a way that we can create energy is naturally awesome. In that context, we Iceland have been doing things for the first time, such as At a time when a drill was on fire in the Cruces, an accident arose. This, however, has created an extraordinary knowledge of a global scale. This is the only place in the world where the structure is known, and it offers a wide range of opportunities for research and other studies in this field. But I want to go inside. A senator who later resists whether we are also expected to have more research to contribute to this kind of opportunity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u172	Mr. President. Short answer, w. A senator, is just: Yes, we should. We have, I think, huge opportunities around the energy sectors, and we are fortunately about to take advantage of that opportunity. I think we can do even better. We have such a fine example of how important it is that, with the uniqueness of the particular thing, just as with all the technology that has been built around the Icelandic sea because we have been fortunate enough to produce tools and equipment that are completely stupid, we can go into the production of an equipment that is stupid and we can sell. [[The president calls.]] It is not just the imagination that we can sell.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u173	A respectable president. I'd like to roll up with a little bit of what. An interesting difference between a senator on the Power Fund bill as it is, and an energy reserve as it is now a consulting committee. The bill is much like the procedure of the Advisor Committee, if you compare these two things together, but why. A senator is an expert on one point there. In Comb 4. The rules of action deal with the energy fund as a competitive fund, that funding is measured by the role and purpose of the fund, and the emphasis shown in advertisements of strength each time. But there is no reference in the bill that the Power Fund is essential to a competitive fund. It may well be said in the regulations right here, but it is not clear how it affects the quality of the fund at the minister's disposal, given the way the fund operates today. Considering that the fund now operates as a competitive fund, as if many others are funded by the government, there's a small amount in addition to the way the government is ordained, not to mention a competitive fund, if you carry it, for example. Together with Technological Development Fund, Newborn Fund, etc. I'd like an interesting opinion. A senator who was just leading the work of a legal committee on the basis of the New Kristian Fund was concerned about the rules and other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u174	The president has to comment on what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is not dressed according to what is suggested in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u175	The window cannot be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u176	The president directs them to a clear recommendation. A senator said that he wanted to dress well. I don't think it's appropriate for a man to appear on a speech chair at the General in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u177	Mr. President. Yes, that is an interesting point. There's a senator here. The kind of thing that makes me sit. The job committee, who has had this bill to look at, and I honestly didn't realize that there were no more rules or instructions on how a project is chosen. In the Bible, the Bible says: "It is written in the book of Revelation, and in the book of Revelation it is written. " par., The Energy Fund offers proposals for Ministers on loans and contributions from the Energy Fund in accordance with the government's emphasis and policy. So that's strong. The reading does not reveal anything except the setting of regulations for the preparation of the components and the like. But there is absolutely no need for this to be based on competition, based on evaluations of tasks considered best, and the conditions required for a project to be strengthened. Now I don't know if it's the highest. The minister intends to try to live up to this regulations so that all of this will be clear there. But I agree with that. A senator that it would be very desirable, and even necessary, to make clear that this is being done on a competitive basis so that between applications would be completely objectively settled on the quality of the materials applied for strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u178	A respectable president. It's relatively common for people to show up on your shirt, it's just a question of any kind you are, I don't know if that's the problem. In the 5th. The rules of action are precisely considered how a counseling committee proposes a minister for loans that are largely like Article 4. in the bill. Plus, it's exactly the role of Power Fund in 2. In the bill, like 3rd. in the rules of action. Section 4. The work protocols are released and used directly in financing projects. It seems, then, that deliberately they are not allowed to explain how this is a competitive fund without clearly showing how it enters the bill in another way. Based on these general criteria, how we would like to treat candidates on equal terms, it may be reasonable to expect this to be a competitive fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u179	Mr. President. Now it's like I haven't studied the specific procedure yet. A senator witnesses. But as it looks here on the bill and on the first lecture, there is no explanation. I reiterate that I was not a member of the committee, so I did not listen to visitors, and I have not read the reviews carefully, and I do not know if this aspect of the matter was under discussion. But I would have thought it was very desirable and, as I said earlier, necessary that it be perfectly clear what the fund is. Is it, then, the government alone that decides, like this? Is it possible that the Minister would direct some recommendation to the government? Or is it generally advertised after a specific form of work and then competitive?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u180	A respectable president. There is a term in film, TV, literature, and I pray that credit should be taken to English, called '-cliffeger', Perhaps it could be translated as a cliff whale or something, the one hanging on a cliff. We know this, the show ends at some tense moment, and we're left in a polygamy about what happens next. I felt something like this while I was listening to a talk. paritaprevir Jón, son of Steindór, the Valdimarsson of Waldo. He concluded his talk at the one that has been called '- 'Shelffhanger',' he concluded his talk something like this, with the permission of a president: 'What I've always wondered about is...' /And never that came as a boy. A senator has always wondered, and now I'm curious to know, and I'd like to use this opportunity to ask why. A senator just into it straight and straight, waiting for an answer, "What's that? " A senator has always wondered?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u181	Mr. President. Yeah, rocknail, that's a very good word and light. I will admit, though, that it was not by such art that I decided to end my speech but, as noted, there was a slight misunderstanding between me and the highest. A president of a talk period so that I would give the talk a little longer and explain how amazed I had always been. But I'll start trying to tell you what. A senator and other candidates to see what it is that I've always been amazed at in this whole context. Then I'd like to say, however, that this, of course, is not necessarily more than many other things. We have a special status and have come up with great knowledge here and are certainly moving it out in a sense, even on a large scale. Same time as Danir, e.g. are, or were, I'm not entirely sure of their position now, one of the world's largest wind mill producers, and have firms such as Danphos that produce an oven system, oven shutters, operating on all kinds of systems, has always puzzled me that we produce - now I don't want to use the word because it's probably too much of equipment. This was a prime pump project in the Western Islands. It's all put together in English intelligence, but I don't think large parts of Iceland have been produced.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u182	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator was eager to know the answer that was illuminating. True, we have done something by sharing our knowledge with other nations in these matters, and it is sufficient to mention the United Nations Earth School for Earth, a highly important and important organization that has played a vital role in helping people to use that resource. But could it be that there are more ways to gather knowledge from different directions and create something that might be called the Iceland Energy School? Then you might create some area where you would gather all this great knowledge that is widely distributed throughout the country and even be able to produce valuables from it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u183	Mr. President. Yes, no doubt, and I think there is evidence of such cooperation in which people and businesses are trying to integrate their knowledge and skills. It is possible, and you can certainly do so much better. But so I now back up that this surprise of mine is of course a little sad that no more equipment is produced here, and we can certainly do it in the future. I find it so remarkable, with this vast special position, just as we have in fishing, we are a great fishing nation, with a powerful fishing industry, and a global system of equipment industry sprang up around the seaside, but in that case, it didn't come up around the energy industry, as would have had to happen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u184	Mr. President. I'd like to propose at the highest. President, he's taking a two-to-five-minute break at this meeting, so why? Those who apply it can fully clothe themselves. I would also like to refer to the president, as a precaution, to the members of the council who have not seen fit to be fully clothed in the hall, and to challenge the trial, I suggest that the same members of the council who have not seen fit to fully dress will be prevented from accessing the public speaker of the General Assembly. I realize that self - respect cannot be instilled in humans. You can't do anything about it if you don't have respect for yourself. But I think it's rather pathetic when people don't respect the oldest institution in the country and the traditions and regulations that have been valid there for years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u185	A respectable president. I realize that there is a generation difference between the Council and the rest of the community. There's a big mistake. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson says that some form of disrespect lies in not wearing a jacket, whether here in a pita or anywhere else. It's simply not disrespectful. I'm really sorry to hear that. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's dress is what he's wearing. A senator so serious. I hope it changes. It is unusual for members of Congress to come to a chair and even to the President's chair without wearing a jacket, but of course only if there are women. I just wanted to come up here and correct the fact that this is some kind of disrespect. It's simply a misunderstanding, a respectable president. I also remind you that it's not very long ago that it was a rule here that men wear a tie. Then came a crash, and men were sent to their homes to get a tie if they didn't have it. There was a waste of time, a respectable president, like this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u186	Mr. President. I'm glad we find time in all this lawsuit to discuss the respect of the Generals. I would like to add to the list as a boy. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's stone provides us with information that we can do to improve the respect of the Generals. And it may be to consider, not just the way we dressed here, but what we have to say. I suggest, if we really are going to discuss Generalis's respect, we're going to consider whether we're gonna be good at it with a set of languages like that of the Central Party taking place here a year ago on the energy package. We can have differing opinions about things and thus clearly in the way we show respect for the Generals. In a sense, I can say that our appearance here in the symposium is part of it. But there is more. I can't talk right after that. A member of the Central Party came up here in a pita, thinking that the senator's dress was a small thing out of the respect of the Generals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u187	A respectable president. I'd like to come first because it's not a generation difference like that. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son before, was to say that it was the older generation of senators who wanted to dress well, dress with a tie, and dress neatly, but the younger generations, like a boy. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son has sometimes called it, dressed like a layout. I think it'll do us all good in here if we approach our work with due respect, and of course it's neat dress and conduct. Of course, there's another thing that doesn't give honor to the General, but that's the language we use here in a pantrea when we present our armies. This has been true in a way that you might do better. [[The president calls.]] [[But at the Cathedral?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u188	President. I'm sending a request to the highest level. Minister a while ago on equality issues, gender discrimination. Some women were barehearted in swimming, and they were sent out. A woman asked me if I could ask a minister about this. A part of it was a person's dress, with the permission of a president: ▪ When institutions and public companies are authorized to make rules about how to dress, e.g. that women wear dresses and men in suits, or that women wear hairy nipples swimming and men don't? The minister's answer says: If the rules do not involve violations of 65.g., it is permitted to set rules, whether recorded or unregistered. the constitution and the principle of equal treatment of men and women in the labour market, cr. Law No. 10/2008, the equal status and the equal right of women and men (followed by the Treaty of Equal Opportunities). This is not being respected by the General. Here's a rule for men to be on the side. Of course, everyone should be neat, but women need not be dressed. [[The president calls.]] Women don't have to wear coats. [[To the point: Of course, everyone needs to be neat.]] Of course, all should dress neatly, but women need not wear a coat. [[The president calls.]] This is not being followed by a minister who says is a law in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u189	It was said to the president that if men put a neat dress on the platform, he would not take it seriously. [[Okay.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u190	A respectable president. There is a class of people called stylists, who know how others should be around and give much advice on how to make a living. Often, these are very neat men who have these activities with their hands, and this is a fine job. We also have this class here at the council, members of the Central Party, who regularly come up here and tell the rest of us how to dress. These are the senators. They have naturally led their conduct to a national sense of humor and fine conduct and to imitate others in this regard. But I must speak for my lot, and I apologize that I ask for this counsel.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u191	V.E.G. President. We have a small order on the style called Honorable Senator and on the page. 22, If I recall correctly, it is urgent for men to make themselves neat. This stylewriter manual was not made by Middle Classes, if I remember correctly, but it's no matter where good comes from. But in other respects, I just want to encourage the highest. A president to use his power according to his order. And I am glad to hear what I said earlier, that it is right to keep people from access to this chair that they are not better dressed than to be on their way out with the trash. I don't think that's appropriate, and I'd like to do the same or more than Costco, because these people wouldn't get access.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u192	A respectable president. Of course, it's funny to hear what you're saying. The members of the Central Party come up here and talk about Generalis's respect, much less how we talk about our colleagues at the council. That they come here to lecture on the rest of us how we should treat our partners and how our dress is to be naturally lame, respectable President. Just imagine having nothing better to do with your time than rolling over and over in what clothes people wear. How boring it must be to have no more important things to say in the public talk chair than to put on the dress of others. Senators. When we have to make comments about one another's appearance, we may find that the problem is quite severe. It's kind of teenage stuff, some kind of thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u193	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u194	I object to this foolishness, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u195	The president believes it should be made clear that for those members of the council who may not have attended the start of these exchanges, it was the president himself who made comments about the dress code. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I am delighted to hear it. A senator has responded well and is now dressed as appropriate in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u196	V.E.G. President. I'm not a known stylist myself. And I can also assure the senator that this is not the wrong discussion here. Of course, a well - mannered dress at the Assembly Hall has some to do with the respect of the council. It has nothing to do with generation gaps. Being dressed as being pulled out of acid has nothing to do with generation gaps, it's just a certain courtesy. We're here on a live air in front of the nation and coming here on our socks, without a jacket, below all helms, my wit, the highest. President, with the equal right of men and women. How did that come about in our discussion? [[Take it up: What about the hair?]] Tickle hair was once in style.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u197	It has to be paid anyway. Isn't that neat?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u198	Yeah, I'm trying to pay for it. [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying we're supposed to show respect for the people by getting decently dressed in a talk chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u199	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The armour of Níelsson the son of Nils. We are to treat the nation with respect. I don't think this discussion is anything particularly respectable to anyone. We work at a 1070 - year - old institution, or maybe 150 years old, depending on what you think, but it's clear that things have changed at the time. People in the district wear cloaks, but they don't need them here. We've given up our commitment good, and I'm so glad it's out of force. But clothing develops, communities develop. No one dresss today in the manner that people dressed in the 930 Council, which is certainly the best. We can also see this in other lands. In Britain, only a few years ago, people were no longer obliged to wear wigs. Not all of them would be nice, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] It's just great that we stop baiting into shit like this when we could be using time to better things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u200	The president now thinks it might be nice to see it. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy on color.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u201	A respectable president. The times change, and the men with them, as the speakers did well. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr. The tie duty is gone and more. There was a fire down here in town and no way you could have opened a window. Because of courtesy from neighboring council members, I thought it normal to get in a slightly cooler environment and get rid of my jacket without going further into it. For the sake of my good manners, I was only lightly dressed earlier than at all times in a talk chair, but I feel that there is no disrespect in attending my shirt, which includes shirts, that sort of dress, a relatively common sight in the Senate speaker's chair. I don't see any disrespect in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u202	A respectable president. The president who now sits on the throne is likely to know better than any of us here how the council had changed and that these changes are usually beneficial. It is not too long before the members of the Generals could first not address the members of the council. Happily, this century is a far - off class class. I must commend a respectable president that he has taken a little note of the rules of dress at the council Hall. But I have to admit that I thought at first. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson was going to come up here in some kind of boyhood, just to help him out so he didn't go through the discussion all night, he wanted his blood to move. But then he insisted, Mr. President, that the president take free speech from people. [[The president calls.]] It's not boyhood, it's just a request for power abuse. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad a respectable president doesn't listen to the shit that happened to him. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u203	The president asks for a word of moderation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u204	President. Just really short. I've sent a letter to the Presidency Committee that she cancels this case, and then it will be taken care of on terms of equality that exist in the country. This answer from the Justice Minister of Equal Opportunities is very clear, by permission of the President: If the rules do not involve violations of 65.g., it is permitted to set rules, whether recorded or unregistered. the constitution and the principle of equal treatment of men and women in the labour market, cr. Law No. 10/2008, equal to women and men's equal rights. These laws are in effect and a constitution, but it may be nice to know that the first rule here at the council is that men need to be on the side and women don't. V.E.G. Prime Minister has been down here in Batman's pantyhose, with the Batman's badge all right. Women dress very freely here, which is great. We men may want to do the same. So if it's to be taken up on the Presidency Committee, I've suggested that this be done in the spirit of the Constitution and equal law. [[The president calls.]] The president may answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u205	Mr. President. I must admit that it was only about me when this discussion began, for I was next written on the speaker's chair, standing here in a progressive green dress, and only ashamed of myself. I was going to say I find this interesting discussion, but I don't think it is. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Just not at all. I come from a more conservative environment that makes me feel free here when I'm not wearing a cape. I also feel that I have something left in my speech when I do not want to be punished. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Of course, older people must be allowed to decide what they wear, and of course, there is a little more room for women. I can see that men can't get away with being here wearing a progressive green dress. But that's what I think it's worth to say about the appearance that we're always reflecting our respect for the Bureau, and that's what I think it is about dress as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u206	I agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u207	Mr. President. I'd like to say something with a what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's statement that it is absurd to make a requirement that the freedom of the council be restricted on the basis of whether they wear a jacket or not. I believe that, of course, we should respect this institution, and of course we should dress well. Of course, we are to be neat and neat, both inside and outside the field of service, but things also develop. I kind of have to confess to certain crimes here today. As it happens, I wore jeans this morning, which is, I understand, very hard to deal with. I don't know if this is going to be arranged for a meeting of the prime committee, I hope not. I hope this case is over. Yet, I would point out that these are fine pants that I bought and had good badges. There may be indications that evolution can be allowed for dress and grooming.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u208	A respectable president. I don't care how people dress in general and generally dress and leave them to me in a light bed. Respect is not in dress. It is not necessarily respectful to wear a suit, to wear a pair of eggs on the tie, and the shirt can be badly grudged and badly worn, and it can be ugly, but it can be ugly, and it can be nasty, and it can be nasty, and you don't have any respect for the person even if he's dressed like that. Respect involves the way you treat yourself, the way you speak, the way you treat other people. Respect involves showing respect for the time of other people, for the attitudes of other people, for the existence of other people. Respect involves having a conversation with other people. It's not about bringing egg chops on the tie.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u209	A respectable president. I wasn't there the incident that started this discussion here, but I can't bear to express my opinion that I think we've gone back to this council hall in regard to our dress code. I think it matters that we are neat, as well as that we are primarily to make a good impression and be nice to one another. So I think there's a good reason why we only discuss between ourselves if we can't do it better and show more respect for this old, respectable organization by the way we act and how we dress. But I'd like to say one thing. As I usually find it interesting to discuss equality, and I also find it very interesting to wonder about women as well as men, I don't know exactly where we're in the conversation about equality when we're wondering whether you're wearing a jacket or a shirt or a dress or something. I think this case is bigger and more important than that, so we're supposed to involve it in this discussion whether people were wearing a jacket or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u210	A respectable president. I have to thank you very much. Bryndís The Haraldsdóttir joke for the inn, she thinks it's just too much of a way to blend the equality into it. But I like to think that it's important that you feel good at work, that you're not choking out of heat or cold hooks. For example, there is one of the few rules of conduct that apply to women's dress that we must not wear flogging. This can be beautiful, though, but we must not wear this kind of national uniform between us Icelanders to keep us warm. And often we women are considerably colder than men, and the men tend to overheat. But they need to be on the banks that are often too often too hot. It's not too comfortable to be stuck at work and getting out of heat. Perhaps we could show a little consideration for one another so that we are comfortable at work. But I'd like to ask the highest. It's a president who's challenged what's happened. male senators to face a dress: If they do, do they need to wear a coat over the dress?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u211	The president realizes that he was prone to strike those light strings, so I leave myself the right to reevaluate this idea. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u212	A respectable president. I think this is the only organization that still laughs at men who can wear dresses, or men who are enrolled into national records as men; men who may have the basic physical characteristics of men. It seems that the dress and grooming arrangement of others is an equal issue today, and we have come to that point in the discussion long ago. This may not be the first group in the community to feel sorry for themselves over working conditions, but we can probably agree on that. But there's a huge misunderstanding that this is not relevant. But I agree, too. 7. Reykv.. n., I don't find this particularly interesting discussion, at least not here at the Senate Hall. Often we have been called upon to be neatly dressed during these discussions, and I agree, a respectable president, and I can hear no better than that everyone in this room agrees. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear is dressed clean and dressed, and he came here in a ponttu dressed in style. He just didn't come here in the same dress and conservatives as the older male senators expect. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] No disrespect is involved, more dignified president. Society develops from putting all people in a box, we're trying to get out of it in the equal talk today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u213	Mr. President. First, I want to congratulate Liverpool's supporters with the day; 30 years of march is over. If we were lighter, I'd probably be wearing a red T-shirt with the Liverpool badge on it. But I didn't realize that this big moment would come up tonight, so I'll be there with the scarf tomorrow, like the highest. Prime Minister used to do this earlier in the winter to celebrate, but instead I use my privileges and attend here at the Eldus Palti in a shirt, not one suit, I'm wearing pants, too, though those at home can't see it, I'm here wearing a shirt without wearing a jacket and I do it normally because it often gets very hot here in the hall. [[The president calls.]] Thank you very much. A president for letting me wear this suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u214	Then the President has not registered down to discuss the President's conference board. The president made comments on what to wear. paritaprevir And the son of Björn, which is the Leví of Gunnarsson, thanketh him. A senator for becoming familiar with the recommendation to dress in accordance with the proposed items, e.g. In a manual presented to the members of Parliament when they begin their work here. Many classes in the country dress in a certain way, that is part of their work and duties, and those who volunteer to the Council should or might, if they have observed politics, be aware that it has also been the custom here that people meet certain duties, are neat and well dressed, and in many places, both in the councils, in the conventions, and in this fine manual, are in one way or another. At times, presidents will think of old texts when most of them talk about the esteem of the Generals, which says that they speak most of King Ólafur, who had neither heard nor seen him. To the President it's about respect for himself, the senator's work, the Agency and the associates. It may be even less considerate. If the dress of individual senators causes other members of the council to be seriously troubled, then the question is, Is it not trivial for the senators to resolve this issue by being at least one of them? It is neatly dressed that other members of the council are not greatly distressed. The President is aware of this from experience, which is probably a form of communication. So when I first sat down, I had one suit and couldn't wear it every day. I used to show up here sometimes in a sweater with a V-neck thing, a shirt and a tie, and I thought I'd do it as well as I possibly could, was wearing my second best suit. However, there were many members of the council who did not consider this to be good, and they convinced me that it was normal for me to resolve the matter, but 62 other members of the council suffered because of how poor I was wearing. That was the case, because I thought it was obvious that it was my job to solve it, but not to get in the way of all my other associates here at the General Assembly. The President's serious when he prays. Senators trying to fulfill at least The minor duties of clothing still on the people, and the new members are asked to fulfill. The President doesn't believe we can at least To that which we all have so much concern, the honour of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u215	A respectable president. It is with great joy that I come up here to discuss this matter. This time, I wanted to review a few points that point to a review of the State Accounting in connection with this case. It may be interesting not to go beyond the bill, but this is the subject of such a great discussion, but the review of The Kingdom Ministry points to two articles of the bill, 8. gro, who has been a great deal talking about here today and tonight, and 6.g. In 8. Article 5 of the Regulation shows that the Power Fund management board can provide more detailed rules and conditions on the implementation of funds between individual projects if necessary. According to a government accountant, here the question arises: Is the Power Fund's management going to be able to transfer money from year to year without access to the secretary's office? About 6. Is the comment to the income of the Energy Fund, which is a contribution from the state fund, according to the Council's decision on the budget at any given time. There is reason to get the financial and economic views of whether this factor could cause a overlap in the future. I see now that it is the memo that followed the review but is not the review itself, but it is still in the spirit of what is also attributed to the review. There was also another point that I found interesting in this bill, there is a viewpoint on the importance of the government in this new world of energy and environment as well as the commitment of the government, both by the Paris Convention and by treaties with other North and other countries, to support the development of energy technologies that can replace fossil fuels use. This is discussed in a review from Val energy. It maintains a view that this is our duty, not only to the country, but also to the world, which says that the region should be present some support strategy that would support the development of Icelandic technology, which could be transmitted to other countries as environmentally friendly technologies for energy production, and this resource was completely lacking here. That point is not addressed in this brief bill, but I must say that I felt that this view was worth all my attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u216	President. Hv. The senator is a reverend and has worked as the district attorney, isn't he, the prosecutor yes? [[Up front.]] I suppose she has a rather good understanding of employment and good control and so forth. I'd like to ask the senator, in view of the fact that a minister gives the bill, and it suggests that the Minister himself ship three parties and decide according to their rules. And then these people decide how to share out this budget, which I'm told was at a certain point taken up to a quarter of a million. These sources are, in accordance with the regulations set by the Minister at the time, only obliged to consult the Power Institute or other experts. By permission of the President: ▪ Before a proposal is made for funding or loans made from a Energy Fund, or a down payment on loans reimbursement. 15th g., the Commission shall seek the information of the Power Agency or other specialists as appropriate. It's a little open. If they don't feel that way, they'll just say, "I don't think it's appropriate, and then I won't. And a minister is pleased to say, "Yes, this looks good, boys, I picked for the committee myself, it's cool. Do we not all agree that this is a great matter? How much do you guys say it's? A quarter-million dollars? All right. We can get this right. But when all party goes free, is it a good way to have one party decide the law and then the rules, and ship all three parties who are to issue public funds that the Minister approves? Don't you think there's a better way of doing things?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u217	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. I'd say that after we've had this good talk about the bill today, and tonight you might be able to give it the complete conclusion that it's a minimalian. Here we have nine articles, of which only one has a validation function, so these are eight paragraphs on an immense and vast role. Then there's 8th floor wide open. some parallel world with the bill, which is a mandatory principle for Ministers to set up regulations. And then it's said that the Power Fund administration can make more rules and conditions. This article is closed by saying that a minister is permitted to set further regulations in the Regulation. For those who are involved in this bill without being on the committee and without having studied the conversation or the background around it, it is obvious that there is quite a lot to be left open. Regarding the management process, this has only to do with the conversation we had earlier this evening regarding the administration of the government. Section 3. you might also be told that she is a Minimalian. And three persons shall be appointed four years: and after that it is plainly said, that one shall be appointed over the board. It would be far better if we, who should make these laws, were a little clearer to what is expected. I think it would serve this rule and bill much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u218	President. I add what was said on the committee, 2nd. In answer to the Njáll Friðbertsson Furnubertsson, who is a member of the case, a fellow minister of this bill, and is able to put everyone in charge and put this Regulation authority and Šbeisikikil only in his own jurisdiction. The committee just thinks it's enough. She feels that this is a good way of ruling. It is enough that the government needs to consult the Power Institute and possibly someone else if possible, and that the qualifications of the three parties to carry this enormously broad role and are appointed to four years at the same time are just general qualifications. In fact, they are simply said not to have criminal records, some absolute minimum requirements. However, the role of the fund is amply extended, as stated at 2 Peter 3: 16. ..... to promote the economic use of energy resources, to reduce fossil fuels, to increase the use of renewable energy sources, to promote energy security and competitiveness and to follow energy policies, innovation policies, regional policies and climate policy. This is the part. Three members, appointed by the minister himself for four years, have to consult with the Power Institute only. - Come kommon. If I mean it, come on. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I spoke to the highest. Minister before, and she's looking at this, if there's anything else you can put in there. I spoke to one of the generals in the dining room, rather high - ranking, and he said, "What?" This is about energy policy, innovation policy, climate policy, perhaps the Environment Minister should appoint one on board. Of course, more people should come to this matter in order to be professional. There's no particular question about this, it's just an answer to enter the discussion and deepen it. But again: Is this a good way of ruling? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u219	A respectable president. Good governance. We should naturally approach the legal process so that it is our joint work in this room for all 63 of us. Perhaps it reflects a reality that we are talking about the way a minister exercises that authority. We should, naturally, share that authority with a minister when this bill is about to become reality and about what the legislation will look like in the end. It may be a matter of control, but I'd also say it's about the quality of law, what we want the law to look like. Is it not the general rule that you should be able to read the rules and regulations and reach them and understand the basics? Of course it cannot be a complete list, but e.g. in the light of the times. A senator notes that this is an energy policy, a innovation, a regional policy and climate policy, would not have been considered that there would be people from more places? I feel that this is related to, which sits only in my heart after being in here, that in one of the stripes there is some tendency in this house in the matter of legalization to want no conversation about change. They are extremely heavy and almost impossible to achieve. Somehow, this middle zone is missing for the Three Laws. Then, too, we are experiencing it during the last days of the council that we are in a hurry to launch and deal with so that some accident can occur. This is not the case. [[The president calls.]] But I think it might be rather a matter of what ambition the Minister and the government have for the good of law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u220	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier the comments of a state accountant, so I began to look for changes in the views of the committee. In the first article, a few words are taken from 6 C.E. gross, growing, and then they are added later. Then I thought of a group that I and I had. A senator noted earlier today as to how the council handles the reviews and suggestions from sources. I have to admit, I'm hoping that it would. A senator can also teach me just about the contents of these changes because I'm not quite sure that I understand them. Actually, I'm sure I don't understand them. I find it so common that at the high Council, the reviewers, guests, experts from state accountants or district attorneys, or any of these fine positions, would guide us to some changes in their expertise. It's my feeling that the above things don't do much with these changes, are late to answer them. In this case, the committee takes back the change she made between 1 and 2. in committee positions between 2 and 3. I have to admit that I'm getting kind of excited about exactly where it stands in view of a state accountant's comments, and I'm not sure if it's true. A senator can shed light on it for me, I can forgive it if not. But I wondered, " What does it look like for the senator? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u221	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question because I found it interesting to read a review of the Kingdom Accounting Committee. Let me begin by saying that I share the senator's opinion of that conclusion, or perhaps lack of conclusions. When you review this review and the changes that followed, I have to admit that I am not fully aware of the outcome. This is something that I would have felt would have been allowed to reflect more fully in the committee's opinion, on which viewpoint is fundamental, and why it is going on the way. The article itself in the bill tells us natural little. Because the question was about this process and a procedure in the legal process, I think it's just that I'm always getting out of it, that's what we talked about. A senator also before, that the matter doesn't seem to be covered in this house, in accordance with the importance and the changes proposed. In this case, a state retrospective is a particular view. This is also shown in the review of another person, Val energy, whose income is covered by energy funds. It identifies certain viewpoints, which are about financial resources. But somehow I feel like I'm coming to the same place down here as anybody else. And again: I'm with the bill and what's being done here, but it always stands out by, when you look at the text itself, which should be what's in the foreground, that there's so much here to be said.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u222	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned the review of Val energy, which is simply saying that not only are things not said but something false, according to the excellent review. At the end of that discussion, it will appear, with permission of the president: ▪ Finally, it is proper to correct what is claimed in a paper with the bill. It is wrong that this bill should take into account the suggestions that Vallor sent on a consultation problem. There is also a description of other things as Val energy ehf. if the report is wrong, and the council will then be reminded that it is important that the articles are correct, such as the law itself, which, of course, should be absolutely sure, though the potential consequences of making mistakes at all, do not automatically weigh as serious as making mistakes in the bill or song text. But this also calls to my attention how many times we get reviews and ignore them or do little or answer with some sort of self - justification for not putting our arms around the point. We often respond very badly, in my opinion. We get a lot of times, I'd say, the message from the source that no comment was taken into consideration, but it's still put out and it's made up here like it's been really big talking and talking to the other guys and these. I present as an example of a recent case in the General and Education Committee, in which the hearing of the Ministry of Justice was totally unacceptable to me. Yet, it is always an attempt to make things look like consultations were a terrible deal. As we know from our committee, consultation can simply involve putting something into practice. It's not a consultation, it's just putting something on a website. But I'm a little worried about this, and especially because I think it might be possible for members of Congress to work together in time. [[The president calls.]] I wondered what a sight it was. The senator's on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u223	A respectable president. To tell you the truth, I would like to have here more general discussions about legalization, the goals, the minimum requirements for discussion, and the minimum requirements for the final analysis, not the number of days left in the council. I wholeheartedly agree with that question. A senator's consulting. I do not sit on this committee and do not know what it is, but it is of particular interest to see a client describe that they feel that it is not proper to consider their feelings. It is not likely that such consideration should be taken into account, but if it is not done, neither should it be said that it did. I repeat, the treatment of this case is unknown to me. But I would like to see more conversation in this house about what the requirements should be and what minimum goals should be in these matters. I think it's incredibly valuable, I think it's safe to use the word that goes the courtyards if we don't fully use it that we're calling for reviews here. They come here, and then they don't get much done. Of course, there are times when they conflict, and humans and communities are often reflecting interests, but in other cases they are simply pointing out something that could be done better or something that does not pass a legal opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u224	A respectable president. I'd like to review something that this case is not. It just so happens that this case is about the Power Fund. The legal framework of Energy Fund has been part of the Power Institute legislation. Now it seems so fun that recently the law was changed by law No. 112/209, of which value was September 19, 2018, except for a- and b-joint 6. which took place at the beginning of this year. The laws were given at one time by us here and were part of a phenomenon called the third energy package. A third energy package was discussed here for a very long time by the Central Party for fear of violating a constitution, making some changes in how resources were treated, and that the Power Institute would submit to Europe. I find it interesting that there is a total lack of discussions from the Central Party or anyone else that there is a certain matter that gives up the independence of Iceland or the independence of the Power Institute or something like that. The reason is simple: This case does not do anything. However, it has been part of the law debated here that somehow the independence of the Icelanders in energy matters would be totally lost. I mention it because if the third energy package had had that effect, with the changes I traced here, by law No. 112/209, if the law had made Power Institute no longer an independent agency, but the European Environment Agency or anything like that, it wouldn't be here. Then this case wouldn't be the way it is. If that were the case, we wouldn't be putting new legislation on the Power Fund from the Power Institute Act. I just think it's time to mention this a little bit because the misinformation around Iceland's energy issues in general, from the third energy package and the discussion about it, are harmful. They are harmful for the discussion. It is harmful if people are led to believe that they are being robbed of some resource or controlled by their resources or by energy in general, when it is not. I'd love to hear this speech here--and I mean it, I'd love it if it wasn't really funny--from what. The members of the Central Party, any one of them, of what way this case will put Power Fund under the authority of Europe. I'd love to see the person. A senator will try. In fact, this art has rarely failed here to produce some strange pictures of the facts. But I would love to see how it would turn out. When we talk about energy in Iceland in general, it's often in hot, natural feelings. The energy is one of our resources that we will need more in the near future than ever, natural, perhaps as our community develops, but also because we have the potential to use the energy we have enough to give us a reasonable advantage in energy issues compared to other countries and possibly, I dare say, by laying one day a seaband that enables us to sell electricity out of the country. I'm not suggesting it right now. The last time I checked, it wasn't a good idea. I wouldn't support it today because the last time I knew it wasn't a good idea. But one day it could be a good idea. We need to see what the development of electricity is here and elsewhere and, of course, the development of climate change and such things. Speaking of a respectable president. If there were to be a sea cable or some project like that, it would have to be about the Power Fund. There must be something about this institution. She must be involved in it in some way, I suppose. Yet, there is a complete silence from the Central Party on this matter. Why? Yes, it is because it has nothing to do with it. I know that it may be unusual to mention that matter in context with another case because it does not have to do with it, but in view of the situation here at last, I thought it would be right for me to underline that fact accurately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u225	Madam President. Reservation hot. A candidate in the matter was truly interesting, and I can agree with it in many ways. In fact, the interesting connection to energy in whole Iceland and the precious resources that we have and the vastly valuables contained in the resource that our energy is. That is not the case. On the other hand, what intrigued me was to respond. A senator in this context - in fact, he woke up in his first speech. The senator and the counter-reference we then had - had a deeper discussion of matters in a larger context. We're actually discussing minor matters here. As we have seen, the matter is not much in the number of articles and so on. However, it touches quite extraordinary numbers of factors and, like whatnot. A senator came in, actually involving an enormous amount of interests. What may be lacking in a few things, and I'd like to go for a bit. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson remains whether or not we might. Sometimes we need to take a deeper discussion here at the conference about fundamental issues such as energy, such as criminal abuse, but we may often do so. [[Take it up: like a crime charge.]] We are always touching some tiny object within the subject. At times, though, we need to discuss the big picture too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u226	A respectable president. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter offers a deeper discussion of issues in a larger context, and generally when it comes to several members of the Council here at the General Assembly. I must also say that once I have heard people suggest that things are being examined in a more broad context when it comes to discussing the third energy package, it's my experience that they are examined without any context. It is very difficult to go to some detailed hymns, but if I ask someone who is deeply concerned about the third or fourth energy package exactly what would be the cause of anxiety, there are seldom certain articles of some dry European phrases when I am asking about it precisely. Much more is involved in something like how world affairs are developing in general or how we generally want energy to have. You see, I don't think there's any real disagreement among Iceland's people about how we want to manage our energy in the big context. We want to have control of our resources. Even the Independence Party is, at least in good days when the weather is good, in favor of a constitution that guarantees the national property of resources. So, of course, when we go into reimbursement of things like reimbursement because of the completely shameless special interest service of that company for the Lotan owners. That's another story. But I would gladly take deeper discussions with the passing of the day. A senator or people who are also able to examine the facts and details. I sometimes worry about it when people who don't care about the details and the dry legal documents want to talk about things in a larger context. [[The president calls.]] My experience is that it often does not want to talk about the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u227	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. In fact, maybe I was thinking it even bigger. But I'm gonna start by thanking you so much for your confidence, and I must be glad. But I may have been looking at this in a larger context because a third energy package is not an example of a big case, a third energy package is not an example of a case involving one of the overall views or the larger contexts. I'm just wondering if - and perhaps in some way I thought about it when I heard an answer. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson - we should also discuss more vision, where we are going, where we will go, and in the lesser context, how we will reach it. Therefore, I was wondering if there were times when we would need to take up a discussion about energy issues as such, not necessarily with individual issues, but in that context only, or as such. on education or health matters, not in the context of health care laws that are planned later for us, but in this large context: How do we want to keep our health system in Iceland? What country do we want to live in? The same is true of energy: How do we want to use our energy? How we want our priorities, etc.? Of course, it comes into some larger issues, such as a frame plan and something like that. But sometimes I think it would be all right to take such a conversation outside special Congress and discuss the big picture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u228	A respectable president. I think there's a good check on him. Senator. It would be worth considering the subjects that people want to take to heart, or rather, what really matters to people about what they are concerned about. That's right, the third energy package was not a big deal. He was not a big subject, a very small bill, eight pages remind me of two material in a law text. I made a bit of a joke about the matter at the time. I made votes to state that it was not a treason that the Power Institute was made more independent or something like that, happy memories. If we took the discussion of how we want to conduct this greater issue, let me think of a few questions that we may not discuss, as it were. A senator said, e.g. how we're gonna use the resources. We now live in a so-called frame program that focuses on what nature we want to protect, mainly on visual pollution, or that we lose some natural bulbs in electricity production, industry and the like, to activate and use the resources we have to produce electricity. I think they're a little different today, and I think it's time to take a little frank discussion on what basis we're going to build that structure. I hope that doesn't sound too radical. Another question is, How do we value the interests of our citizens in terms of electrical prices and national income? Of course I'm talking about a cable. That's a discussion we had a few years ago. One day she'll come back, when things have changed, and we need to reevaluate them. Then we need to be able to have that conversation because it's easy to just sit on one side of it, and we're gonna stand there, be the politician who wants to lower electrical prices, no matter what it is that low electrical prices are the greatest human rights in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is only one piece of another hysteria that needs to be discussed. [[The president calls.]] I wish we were here 2nd and I were here. and could continue this, a respectable president. But I appreciate it. A senator's tip.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u229	A respectable president. I think it is very important to continue the discussion of the third energy package to show that none of the doom-day predictions have come true, the price is not what people say in Europe, and no matter what people say - which is not yet here but was to appear just as soon as the law was accepted - not changing the price here in the country. But in the case of the day. I'd like to discuss this part of the second talk on 5th. for monitoring. It says, by permission of the president: In accordance with the rules of Energy Fund, those who receive the strength or loan from the Power Fund shall account for the progress of projects and the provision of funds. Annual revision of energy accounts will be undertaken each year. It is good and blessed to explain exactly the progress of projects, etc. and all normal for this reason. However, I miss a little bit of the analysis that comes after the completion of a project to evaluate the effects of the program that was strengthened. It's, for example. conducted in a Technical Development Fund, where there is an assessment of progress in diffusion to different projects. Indeed, it is vital that we learn more fully what is good and who is not. This may be further outlined in the Regulation or in the further instructions of a minister, but I think this is an obvious part of what needs to be, so that there are at least such indications from this point of view, in case you go to the legal explanatory information and something like that, that this would be a normal part of the follow-up program. The second thing I miss in the bill, especially on the role, is that the concept is addressed on sustainable terms, because, while energy policy, innovation, policy-based policy and policy of the state of climate is all political issues that come in here during the council and are addressed in a political way and the basis for these policies to be rooted in a measure of sustainability, it usually takes to put things directly, each part of the fund is, and mention the very clear statement that a certain baseline, similar to the laws on public financial matters, is precisely sustainable because if it is something we have learned in the past months, the most sustainable concept that we need to have in all our work here at the assembly. It's not stability. It's sustainable. Stability comes if we are self-sustained, not vice versa. It's very important. Then I'd just like to continue with the discussion I had earlier today for the evaluation of the impact of this bill, the financial impact on the state funds. The discussion presented, and, interestingly, the general assessment of the state funds is being made if they are negative, based on my experience at any distance, I do not remember any consideration of a positive effect on him, which is being considered in general on innovation projects that have generally benefited. I just wanted to say that the positive effects, as well as the negative, are not necessarily financial sums. The law on public finance that stipulates the establishment of government policy, which is in a financial programme, is not necessarily a matter of mere financial impact, but of benefit, in effect, by perhaps a large A-A. Since there has now been a discussion of a measure of prosperity, the objective is not necessarily economic but social, and if such assessments of influence were better handled in a prime project and what the government offers to the council, I think that the council would be much better discussed in a more objective way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u230	President. Thank you. A senator for interesting points in his second speech on this subject. What he said about assessments of the impact of projects especially attracted my attention. As I came into my speech earlier today, I Friðbertsson you. For Njáll the matter back between the 2nd and 3rd. Because we did not properly comment on comments that even came from the Bible. Land activation and the Association of Industrial Affairs on improved information on the fund's activities and the activities of the fund. This is an enormous part of increasing transparency and intelligence, even for the fund. Now, an energy fund itself, it has 25 million for distribution each year, can hardly be described as a competitive fund. These are the strength and loans that are given to earth's temperatures and the strength to transform houses to improve their use of energy. So I began to wonder if it's not really a competitive fund, but it's perfectly normal to inform about it. I am very happy that at any rate the committee stressed this point, in its second members, to the minister's office that there is a clearer issue of information in the Regulation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would agree with me that it is a good rule to inform us about such things, and we are thus agreeing with the National Relation and Industrial Association. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u231	A respectable president. The simple answer is yes, of course. The smooth answer I would like to have, because now this fund is in accordance with the principle of competition. However, it is not according to this bill, obviously, which is an interesting change in the role of the fund. The other is that this relatively small amount of money, such as a dog. A senator describes, is intended to work and support projects on the basis of energy policy, innovation, regional policy and climate policy. These are four of the biggest cases we face here at the council. The only thing missing may be transportation, health, education, and the natural social security system as well. But these are the largest categories of policy we work on. This fund is to support projects that achieve the aims of these policies that we set for the council, these huge settlements and innovations, which are crucial to the future. That is exactly what the senator talked about, so obvious that the requirements for transparency apply, which should be guaranteed if it was a competitive fund, and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u232	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. In my second answer, I want to come into only other things, although I certainly have an answer. paritaprevir The son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, caused some speculations. But I'm still going to let myself go anywhere else. In his talk earlier, why? A senator for the sustainable concept, which is a natural very important concept, especially in these times. It's about the environment, the economy, the community. These are the three factors that matter immensely. Hv. The senator discussed this in the context of the evaluation of the effects of legislation. We've talked about it in the past and talked about it a little earlier that's settled by the economic impact, they're positive, but mostly negative, but like a whale. It is also interesting to discuss the assessment on the positive side. But I wondered in that context, I mentioned the cohesive issues earlier, if we should consider all the prime signals of sustainability, i.e. Environment, economy, and society, as well as evaluating the impact of a bill whenever it is proposed, I think, on all the factors that are relevant and all the factors that may be considered by members of Congress and Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u233	A respectable president. It seems to be obvious how important sustainability is, especially now as it has revealed to us by Covid. We're supposed to start with everything we do from self-sustaining. But it has been such a ideologies over the past few years and surely decades that the stability concept has been in control. If we look over the story and look at the data on index, gang development, and I don't know what, it's stability, I think, the last thing that could be said to describe the historical data. But at the same time it's been extremely unstable, we've been successful in self-sustaining. My theory is, in fact, that if we put more emphasis on sustainability and make sure that there will be no fractures, when something like a collapse or a Covid or something like that happens, then stability is less important. Despite our instability, we have maintained a measure of self-sufficiency. So as long as we make sure that there is a sustainable, self-sustaining person about having a roof over his head and food in his stomach, etc. And to them that are fundamental need be given; that a unstable environment may not matter. For this reason it is relatively obvious that sustainability should be our first measure in all our policies and priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u234	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The young man Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for his good speech and fine answers to this urgent treasure of our energy. Now there are a lot of things I want to think about, and I want to talk about it. A senator. The fact is, this is a simple rule, and this is the best case, but we may be able to come up with some points, including those, as a matter of course. A senator pointed earlier, that the goal of the fund is quite large. The role of the fund seems to be to support projects that contribute to energy security and competitiveness in energy and energy related activities on the basis of energy policy, innovation policies, regional policies and government policies on climate. A senator came in earlier. Is it not too much for us to imagine that something decent will be of this, considering the financial value that appears to be present in the fund? If I get it right, we're putting this in about 25 million. K. Every year, or 20 million. K. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would be able to instruct me whether there are only 25 million. K. ... intheflight already. But this is the first one. Hv. A senator began his talk earlier, referring to Article 5. I'd like to come in a little bit later on on 8. ... thatI may not have time for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u235	A respectable president. It is of interest to note that the fund's role is to change dramatically from the present arrangement. It was the fund's job to contribute to the practical use of resources and to reduce the use of fossil fuels, but the addition to renewable energy sources is to consider. All these policies, energy security, etc., are also part of a new role and likely a much more important role. To see that changing the bill has no effect on the government's budget is likely to mean that the scope of the bill is not to be increased in spite of a far greater role. That in itself is very interesting, a much more extensive function can be done, apparently, the same capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u236	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This is all the most interesting and exciting. I'd like to roll up 8. Where I know what to do. A senator is quite clever about wondering about the current rights and the way things work. It speaks of a fund of energy granting funds and resources to cancel payable loans. Power Fund management can make further rules. I was wondering if this, at least. On the basis of the way the government is appointed, there is not in fact a fall to reduce credibility that it is above all doubt that here the politicians and perhaps a match for the day is seen rather than the norm, given the order of the administration, as I said. I'm wondering if there would be something to do better with this article. But what if, possibly, and possibly possibly, we could see a better future by supporting even more fully in this fund? This is what I want to wonder at. Senator 8. and how it pleases him.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u237	A respectable president. That's a very good question. Senator. Eight. The Regulation seems to have gathered all the remaining items, which are more precise in the procedures of the current Energy Fund and try to put them together. Like what? In the previous answer, a senator put it simply on the present arrangement, but the role is also being increased entirely by an enormous number of cases. It's simply the procedure of the administration and the access of ministers, etc. Then the question may be: Yes, I think that the simplicity is mostly very nice, but is it a little too simple, given the increased role of the fund and just how incredibly simple a minister's arrival is? A minister's arrival provides this corruption risk, and of course, there is no question about the present minister or even the one we have referred to in this immensely large environment, that political decisions and reasons are often more selective than professional. There's a political incident in this bill through the fact that the General is accepting all these major policies. Instead of getting involved in political affairs and saying that this unique project is being supported, etc., the political event on the broad note, in the painting, is in the big picture. So let us consider some aspects of the work to be done in a professional way and explain how it is better and more rewarding to give this work support rather than the other. Thus, the political explanation never goes well enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u238	President. I recommend a board of committees on the chain of loyalty and pollution control. It's a big deal in many ways, although it may not be the magnitude of the energy fund, as has shown itself to be here today, but we may have to discuss it under the morning according to the size limit of it, but all in good order, I'm ready for it. Like what? The senators know that they had the highest priority. Environment and resource minister to the bill for a change in these laws. That was well, what can we say, quite important in some way. There they identified a switch between state and rural society that included a list of high-level applications on which sides were provided, i.e. Depending on what is available in Annex III or Annex IV, local health monitoring society is on the other side or on the side of the government as exciting as it is today. And then, in view of the nature of the operation, permission of work was no longer required by the health committees of the community. Hv. The concern was well discussed by the Environment and Health Committee, and it became clear that quite a number of comments were about the suggestions presented in the proposed bill. Then we suggested that we try to do this a little better in a better position on the committee and see if some adjustment could be made in the bill, even if it did not go exactly as far as it commanded. I'm not, Mr. President, reading the committee opinion. Hv. Councilmen have studied this. Maybe I'll read this section in general because it's got a pretty good opinion on the Committee. This is about reducing the number of groups of activities that are subject to a work permit or are registered and dissociative, as I said at the outset. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: ▪ The handling of the matter made extensive comments on the subject of the bill, and it is evident that the changes proposed by the bill are not entirely the same. The viewpoint was that the decrease of classes should be further milestoned and stressed that the law needed total reviews for explanations and simplicity. The committee agrees with the above views and considers that a complete review of the laws on the path of loyalty and pollution is necessary, as the legal environment is complex and difficult to understand. Such an overall review needs to be conducted in broad consultations with the partner, i.e. National Health Organization, rural society itself, EEA, Food Institute and Business Life. In addition, this work should consult other departments or agencies, particularly in situations where there is a need for a follow-up or where more than one work permit is applied for the same activities, and ensures the contact of the organisation where appropriate when no specific work permit is needed. The Commission feels that monitoring should be done as close as possible, but the role of the institutions of the State is to consider harmonization and to provide assistance when necessary. It will consider how knowledge in close to the environment is most effective, communication with governments and information sources, and employment in comparable circumstances, regardless of location in the country. The Commission concludes that we should aim to increase the extent of electronic management. President. The changes that the committee feels should make are reviewed, but in short the release is turned away. The Environment and Transport Committee suggests that, as far as possible, there is a strong explanation between these institutions and administration points using Annex III and VI. It's that I remind me of only seven categories of jobs that no longer receive permission but that are classified to another location, which is encouraged to give a full review of the case and that this will be considered better. The text I read earlier is a sort of compass of the Committee about where to turn in that overall review. There was no question about whether this group should be included in its activities, i.e. that the medical committees could still determine where to work if this was comparable to other activities. The committee felt that it would have to be inside, for there could not be an exhaustive list of activities that lived or existed at any time, and of course this is one of the factors that will be discussed in an overall review. Because of this, significant changes are presented in the Committee's opinion. Under the committee, a leading authority wrote in advance, Chairman Bergþór Ólason, Guðjón Brjánsson Guðmundsson, Guðmánsson, who was born before, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, in advance, Jón Gunnarsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason. Yeah, it's not possible to write here, I'm discovering it now, topv. Mr. President, and I'm really sorry, I would've wanted to know about it and would have been the least of it to print it, and may still be possible, but I think I'll be right about it, okay? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson may be able to explain himself, that he supported the matter, or declared himself acceptable, I think the wording is, as an officer on the committee. So the committee suggests, President, before I completely leave him, I know he fears the moment, that the bill will be agreed with the changes made in the Commission opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u239	A respectable president. Yes, I did. I agreed. Since I'm an officer of the Committee, I declared myself acceptable to this release, and I definitely support the bill as it is. I'd like to go over the process briefly. When it reached the committee, it was completely impossible. I had all the red flags on top of my case because it was very spaghetti. But the committee went on to three if not four rings of it, with repeated reforms and reforms, and called for reviews again, and after all, exemplary work on the bill was completely ruined to the council, so to speak. It's just that the results were very good. I had not planned to talk much about it, although it may have been that way. It's actually very complicated to talk about this case because the changes are so intense and you can't talk about the bill as it was because it's just gone, all different bill now, perhaps more so as to what it was before it was shut down, but there's such a streamlined change in it as it is right now. Thank you so much for your good work - and more like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u240	President. Thank you. The contrary, a senator reminded me of what I had forgotten to do in my background speech, thanks to the reason. A committee for a good job in the case. Maybe I wouldn't use the exact same words as that. A senator used the bill, its quality, its content, and the way we did it. But basically we are the reason. A senator agreed that there was a need to do things so that the arrangement could be settled within the committee that was met, so all of us agreed to take care of them. We tried ways, didn't we? The members of the committee were very helpful to me as an expert in allowing me to try to take it this way or the other way and explore it, even putting it under the speakers, whether it worked, and even calling it back in. So I have to agree with what. This work was exemplary in the case of a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u241	Mr. President. I just wanted the other one to do it, that's all. A senator mentioned - and needs to mention - the helpers who came to visit and were extremely helpful. There were the main categories of young environmentalists who had enormous details on this subject and clearly explained why it was wrong. This was very well done, and it was very well met with calling for additional references because there were so much changes in the language from first edition to second edition, and additional reports of it were called, and then there was a third edition, and some spinning about what was to be in and what was not, as discussed in the background.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u242	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill for a legal adjustment in the laws on loyalty and pollution control, No. 7/1998, who have taken some changes since that time. We have also heard a series of articles entitled What Does the Bible Really Teach? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Otter's Óttarsson Proppér, who carefully frames in the spirit and the work done on the well - arranged committee. The objective of these changes to the law is to enforce the government policy of making effort to simplify a regular work for the sake of employment and the public, as it is called, while stressing that the management board is efficient and righteous. We know such statements. They have proved to be different and not always as it should, not necessarily in behalf of simple ones or in the interests of the public. They've even turned into their resistance. This too was discussed on the committee, and they agreed that it was necessary to go to the earth with caution. The bill was initially aimed at discharging dozens of companies that would not qualify for employment and registration purposes, but a health monitoring of the rural community was still intended to include a follow-up of the related activities. In total, 187 classes of activities are stated in Annex IV and V laws on loyalty and pollution control that the National Committees have issued work permit. No longer will the distribution of the Marketing Authorisation for 41 classes of activities be required. There are changes in vows for various categories and they are organized into new categories, but these changes affect 53 categories of functions. There are important activities, such as salons, large electrical tensions, meeting halls, horse rents, cinemas, meat smokes, unions, and corporate engineering. It may be noted that a considerable number of cases are involved. It depends on areas, e.g. If you place meat - smoking in your apartment or an oil spill from your bras. However, such complaints as those discussed in this article have been received by the health care department. Following the changes in law, it would have been a great deal of HCPs to have access to such matters, since the changes in the bill were not to be found to guide the system. The Commission agreed on the main proposal that each of the institutions would best be conducted as close as possible, but that the role of the institutions of the State should be to consider that harmonisation and assistance if necessary, should be made in a committee list. It is the Commission's assessment that the need for a full re-examination of the law as soon as possible, and that it is of concern to cut and cut from the law text and the roles of the individual aspects of the management system, except that there is a problem with work and a great agreement with the partner, and even to perform this risk analysis. This made sense to the committee when the law began to be read, studied, and understood how complicated and difficult it really was. The health care department was clear in their interviews with us and even complained that little or limited consultations had been made with the committees at work on the bill and not with the companies involved. Apparently, some upbuilding things could come out of such work that would improve the situation. The Environment and Transport Committee wants to treat countries, such as the executive mentioned, to consider all the laws involved. Nevertheless, it changes the law, but it warns against it, suggesting that the law be revised, not wanting to be taken into consideration by specific matters that we do not have full control over the consequences. I'm here to this committee party in advance, and it's primarily about the need for an overall review of these laws. It also makes me feel thought - provoking and necessary to ensure that there is still clear laws on the administration of the authorities to one aspect of this 187 or even more, the administration of the authorities to work camps. This caught my attention because I now live in a regional district where these matters have been involved, as we know from the news. It's about workers' equipment. The matter has improved quite well, but before the change bill was submitted, all work camps were to be put aside, as they were able to see. We are all familiar with the media discussion of the equipment of workers, and the best thing to do is not to put the people in high esteem. The fact that foreign workers have been holes in has often been seriously deficient, to say the least. There is also the presence of mobile workers in slaughterhouses. These factors have to be handled successfully so that they can be available to the health committees of the community to work afterwards and that this small company of mine will also serve as a helper. Other than that, I thank for my work on the Committee. It made sense to me, and the results were cautious and in behalf of so many services, mainly to local and health - care committees. There's a great deal of interest in continuing to do so. And as noted in the Committee of the Committee and from a historian, this may be a place in the nearby community where knowledge is better than supervision and counseling should be held at the state's official agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u243	President. Thank you. A senator for the talk, the support, the cooperation with the case, and the depth of his comments, but I think we agree. I thought it would be nice to hear that the guard did not turn in any way toward which we wanted to revise, but I thought that all of us who wrote would be expected, whether on notice or not, would agree with where to go. I just came up here because of what. A senator specifically mentioned a work camp that had been flaunted at the committee meeting that it would have special interests in mind. It is still that workers' camps are subject to the Marketing Authorisation despite the changes being made here and in the context of a word. I agree that this is one of the things we especially need to consider, but I just wanted to reiterate it. I don't really need any answers, but I wanted to draw them out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-25-127.u244	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's right, I should have guessed that this became a subject and that was one of the points taken into consideration. I just stress that it was the most reasonable conclusion on this subject, and instead of doing the case in a kind of blindness, this conclusion was made. The health committees in rural society play a major role. I believe they should be allowed to continue. It's my opinion that we should activate professional skills in our rural society in this regard. The smaller communities have been joined by health committees, and that's fine. We're supposed to contribute to the reduction of rural communities and to the reduction of existing administrative elements. But this was killed in visitors, and particularly in the medical committees, they stressed that the committees had their good role. However, we can, of course, bear in mind, and it is necessary that the EEA and public administrative bodies should have their space and their defined roles and possessions, as mentioned in the Committee's opinion and in the discussion, to use the new technologies, electronic technologies, as possible. This can be done to a greater degree than we might do today.
