ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u1	By letter, dated September 1, 2020, the president has requested this, according to the 8th number of 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board of administration and monitoring committees, on the report of the State Reconsistencies, State Insurance Institute and Social Security.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Department of State and Development at Work, Tourism, Industrial and Development Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Social and Juvenile Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u3	Mr. President. So this weekend, one of the three government leaders wondered on an interview program whether it would be normal to postpone the pay raise on public and public markets, to postpone the pay raise and votes agreed on in the biographies of at least one year of economic hardship. In a third - day Cestlight party, he repeated himself, saying that it would be wise to consider postponing any elevations. The leader of the Independence Party then joined him in an interview in the Morning Press yesterday, suggesting that employees could not be required to obtain a combined pay raise in such an economic state. So, now, two of the three representatives of that government have convened the idea of postponing blundering a pay raise. So it is reasonable to ask: Has this been discussed by the three presidents and even by the government? And second of all, is the highest. Prime Minister agrees with his colleagues?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. He was here quoting words of the highest order. Financial and economic ministers, on the other hand, the highest. Transport and Regional Minister on the idea of postponing pay increases. I'd like to say first what. Senator, he's asking if this was discussed in the government, that it's not. This has not been discussed in the government. On the other hand, this was discussed, not by the government, but by other parties at a meeting of yesterday's National Congress, where the officials of the government, rural society, and the labour market parties were held. And as now the case of both ministers was very clear. Of course, a senator mentions this conversation only at the party's table. It must be about a much larger picture that was underneath. I say this here that the government is not about to settle at that table. We have made a clear declaration of our approach to collective agreements and are still working accordingly. Then, of course, I am quoting our declaration in connection with biographies. We just finished 2nd. and a vote for one of the issues closely linked to that declaration, i.e. the core of the social and child-friendly bill on share loans and support for the first buyers. The matter has not been discussed in the government, and I believe that we all agree that such a conversation will take place at the table of the public market and must always be part of some larger picture. The head of the labor movement and the head of professional drivers have expressed themselves in the media on these ideas, but I restate on it that the government is not suggesting anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u5	Mr. President. I'm sure you're right by the highest level. Prime Minister, this will eventually attack the labour market. But it's not like any other Facebook entry when two presidents of the board, presidents of the government, cast out a game like this. This is hardly happening in a void, especially now that the government has a large part of the economy in its arms, apart from that, so that much of the biographies are, of course, turning toward the government's actions. So I must ask if you can read from this government's will to push aside the biographies agreements. Second, I want to reiterate a question that I need to answer: Is it the highest? Prime Ministers agree with their colleagues that this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u6	Mr. President. I'd like to say first, for what? A senator asks me if it is the government's position to push aside the biographies, that, of course, it is not the position of the government. I just want to reiterate what we were doing here last night. We just finished 2nd. about one of the primary networks involved in the government's declarations for biographies. In the fall of the year, we will see more issues being put forward to form the housing market than I noticed. In his speech yesterday, a senator spoke to him about tenants'position. There will be more cases of social subsidiary, which were another large part of that declaration, so the government will continue to work according to the clear declaration it made around the biography agreements. However, since I took up this office, I've had the custom that what's being sold for purchases and markets is being put on public markets. I'm not going to step into the negotiations that are at the table and not with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u7	A respectable president. Cardiac motility is prolonged and prolonged, with more than doubled in some cases. It has also been reported that some 30 people have taken their own lives for the rest of the year. Similarly, the Children's Youth Department of the Land Hospital, BUGL, has become the longest in the Covid-19 epidemic and is expected to be a huge increase in the need for branch services right now in the fall. The increased problems children face at school. Then there are reports that students have not paid off in school for a year or two. The result is gigantism by not seeing to it that children are immediately diagnosed, the effect on the future. What is the State doing in that case? Yes, it's making an assembly for the future. There is nothing more to tell us than to set 1K. In this case, time is saved. That'll pay itself many times. We know the consequences of such individuals and their families if friendships break down, when school trips are completely disturbed. Then we have a bad system that will harm the health system in the future. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: How many children are on a waiting list in the BUGL Walk Department, and how much has it increased? At the same time, I'd like to ask, "How many children are on the waiting list today? " What is the average waiting period? Has he gotten longer, and how much? What have children had to wait the longest time for service?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I'd like to say in general that as this year goes on, we'll be increasingly aware that everything that was difficult gets harder for us in Covid. Whether poverty, difficult social conditions, mental health, psychosocial challenges, etc. Kids with problems in the way are in even more trouble. People who had problems are in even greater trouble. We're taking a lot of steps, and we've been doing it in the budget that's already been approved. In my field of work, we go to make special new 540 million. K. This year to mental - health disorders throughout the country. We're talking about adding psychiatrists to health care and supporting the mental - health teams throughout the country because it's important that the country is under control. I have specifically asked for it as a boy. A senator here speaks of suicide. We have new figures, but not conclusively confirmed from the surgeon's office. All the people involved found yesterday to see if there is any greater protection and protection in this serious case. But I can assure you what. A senator's concern is, in particular, with the issues of young children, addictions, and mental health.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I agree that we should make sure that poor people don't have to wait. But those who can afford it can get ahead of themselves and help their children. We are to make sure of this once and for all, and we are to unite in it: Don't let children be on a waiting list. It's not that complicated. It is simply a violation of human rights, even a violation of a constitution, to have children wait for vital service because it is serious. This is it. We know and know from experience what the consequences will be if we do not intervene early enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u10	A respectable president. Because of what? A senator specifically asked about the separation figures in regard to a waiting list on BUGL, so I would like to point out that this is the ideal subject of written inquiry because I do not have here on the fast and number of waiting rooms in the individual departments. On the other hand, a waiting list for a straggler service on BUGL hasn't even reached the top of Covid, that is, I have confirmed now from Land Hospital. However, it is proper to wait for replacement operations, and a number of such measures have been extended at the same time. I agree with what. Senator. We have repeatedly discussed it here in the public talk. I view us as partners in the fight against poverty, and let us continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to back up here just to a conclusion that the job drivers' union at Smokejanes sent away about the monthdays and on the closing of borders and increasing unemployment. The decision was sent to members of the South Pillar, Prime Minister, and Financial Ministers. I hope that Prime Minister has read the resolution, but the organization says here, by permission of the president: There is a very difficult situation in society and the world at this time because of Covid-19. Yet, the epidemic has been fairly successful in mastering the epidemic and, in fact, so well, it is taken out of the landstones. At the same time, Iceland's government has seen reason to start a market campaign to present the success of the objective of encouraging foreign tourists to travel to Iceland. From the beginning of the epidemic, a disease - control doctor has reported that it is really Icelanders who are most likely to carry infection into the country. Foreign tourists are not likely to spread to a high degree, but they do not end up in close contact with society. At the same time, a health - care professional has stated that it is not his goal to get any infection into the country but that it is possible to expect occasional transmission during the global epidemic. Then the organization says: ▪ So it is safe to say that the transformation of government policies in terms of freedom of movement to and from the land has come to many people. The decision to close the country almost by obliging everyone to two screenings and parasites seems to have been taken without consultation with the commercial life of the country and without any proposed calculations and logical support for that decision. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister in the Community resolution: Would it not have been possible to select a milder implementation of screening on the border without shutting off the flow of tourists with such a taxing preservation? This is indicated by what the UN concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u12	Mr. President. Like what? From the beginning of an epidemic, a senator knows that the objective of the government has been clear. They have been protecting the lives and health of Icelanders and those living here, reducing the number of those who receive this dangerous virus as possible and at the same time minimising social and economic impacts. When we look at all our actions, it is first that the preventative measures in Iceland have been less burdensome than most of the countries we compare with, where children have been locked up for weeks, where police force has been used to monitor the noise of disinfectants and where there has been a direct outing. We have not done this but, in all our efforts, have been carried out that we are not overstepping people's rights. Actions on the border now as rain. A senator points to - I know about this resolution and received it as a report. A senator mentioned - is directly following the data and studies we have based on and considered the best measures made by a psychiatrist to prevent further transmission. We can see this in the diseases we're still dealing with here in the country and only this morning learned of the closure of the Land Bank in the Breiðholt due to infection. It has to do with viral variants that have probably crossed the border. It is. So government decisions on the border are directly followed by the experience, the knowledge, and the data we have acquired. We actually went unsettled paths when we set up screening on the border. On this experience, we used to adopt aseptic technique and double the screening for those living here. The situation is now that it is a double screening and infestation. [[The president calls.]] Then, with experience in this methodology, we will be able to determine whether these measures can be successfully changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u13	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. Of course, there are some factors that need to be balanced in the decisions made by the government regarding the border and the screening, as well as other factors related to the transmission of the virus to the country to the minimum. At the end of their resolution, a job driver's organization at Smokejanes says that they believe that everyone could have been screened, and even twice, but they have enough to place Icelanders in an environment. In many ways, I agree, and if those measures did not produce the desired results in late stages, you could always increase the risk of disease prevention to the rhythms of the current rules. I might want the highest opinion. Prime Minister on this. But watch that after WOW's bankruptcy and then after the virus epidemic, unemployment is growing in the country. It's going to be about 10% at a national rate for the New Year's. [[The president calls.]] It's heading for 20% on Smokeynes. [[The president calls.]] Since we look forward to a very serious situation, a general assessment of the matter is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to say three things to ask why. Senator. First of all, ask me why. A senator, whether it had been better to do less and then harden them later. It was totally clear that when we began to set off for screening on the border, where we were certainly, as I mentioned earlier, we were going along unsettled paths, so attention has come from many parts of the world, and came in. absolutely clear in my case that if we were in a position of cross-border transmission and were not able to master them within the country, it would be a decisive intervention. That is what was done on August 19th. It was taken in a decisive way, since it was our food, including ours. the options of a disease - control doctor, as well as other factors, that it is wise to intervene more effectively and simplify them later. As for the Southnes, I'd like to say that it is very important that we look especially at the situation there. I'm going to have a meeting with the mayor of the South Side next week where we're going to review this position. The government has already given some financial support to the difficult situation there, and I think we'll have to watch a variety of solutions when it comes to improving employment conditions. [[The president calls.]] Finally, Mr. President, I would like to mention that an interesting survey was made yesterday showing very firm support for the actions taken by the government, including the U.S. government. ... ona border. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u15	A respectable president. We held an open meeting or filled our focus on finance policy at a press conference earlier, saying that we had supported many of the government's actions. We have stressed to support what is good, not just from where it comes from, and especially the actions that hold people, homes, and businesses. Now we look forward, and I'm not scrutinizing the government, that the government's decisions on closure will lead to more and more difficult economic consequences than men anticipated, especially with regard to unemployment. At the same time, we stress that waiting is expensive. It is very expensive for the nation, for homes, and businesses, to wait with decisions. And as a result of all the treatments for finance, the review of financial conferences, and the projections of the Federal Bank, it is quite clear that we are dealing with temporary problems. This does not mean bringing a beautiful promise, which in itself is respectable, at some point between 2022 and 2023 C.E. The problem must be faced now between 2020 and 2021 - predicting as much as 10% of unemployment, possibly 30,000 people - in order for us to give the people some hope and knowledge in these difficult times. That's why I want to ask the highest. Whether it is considered to be an option to move in the financial policy, so that after three years of earmarking, we take the money to the head, so that the government takes a strong step into the recession now but will not enter the economic state later, after perhaps two to three years of the crisis. [[The president calls.]] We know from history the consequences of such actions. So the question is: Is the prime minister willing to bring up the financial program so that it will be loaded, not flat as it is today?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I'd like to say first, that I only did it as a dog. One U.S. senator said that the use of the government's preventative measures would have resulted in an increase in unemployment. I'm asking all of you. Councilmen wonder what the situation would be without the preventive measures taken. Is it the measures that are involved, or is it the pandemic that has an effect? I think that would be interesting for a reason. Councilmen look at shrinking numbers to form in the North countries where the North countries have selected very different ways to cope with the epidemic. We have an example from Sweden that chose as far as Iceland, but it has almost the same contractions in the second quarter of the year. Let us keep that in mind when we discuss these matters. All nations face economic consequences of the epidemic. It cannot be referred to as a direct cause. Rather, we face economic contractions caused by a pandemic that is changing our whole life. Hv. A senator refers to financialism, which is now involved in the council. I know it's a financial committee that makes a special assessment of how it really measures the uncertainty of the policy. I think we should let the body members finish that job and that discussion. As for the financial program to be submitted here on October 1, it is my opinion, and I believe the plan will reflect that we are to use the state's budget with full force so that we can grow out of this crisis. We have made a very clear statement that includes the big political decision that we are not going to cut down on our systems but that we are going to protect the success that has been achieved and that we are going to expand our public investment. How much money is going to make that investment, I think it's also an important conversation to stay at the council. I'm going to learn some suggestions about restoration as fast as I can. A senator referred to him. [[The president calls.]] But I'm glad to see that there seems to be quite a wide agreement on developing jobs and increasing jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u17	A respectable president. It has been wonderful to observe the public defenders, how they have shown both leadership and humility in their troubled questions. They have led the conversation, they have enlightened the nation, and they have not answered questions with wanderings and twists or what they are, and I think they are exemplary. What I stress, and we're saying in the Offspring, is that it's costly to wait. In my opinion, it is expensive for the whole community to set up a financial policy that is more consistent with the way the government groups enter elections rather than dealing with emergency problems right now. In all my kindness, I am sharpening the government to take further action, moving what we plan for three years ahead in order to deal with the great problems we face - and he is now. I'd also like to stress that when we were criticizing the government here regarding the closing process, we also did that about the opening. Whether it was the decision for the summer or for the present, the plan was missing at the same time. [[The president calls.]] They needed to explain to people the economic and social consequences of government decisions, both in the summer and in the autumn. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. Once again, a senator repeats my answer here. I think it is very important that at the council a conversation about exactly how we want to organize the necessary public investments that the present government has raised tremendously since its intervention. Of course, we were at a minimum in history when this government replaced the earlier government that did not approve of it. We have first made the decision to add because the official investment level was simply too low compared with the economic situation. Then we added a pandemic. If there's a parapolitic conspiracy to further increase, I don't think that's a bad idea. I think it's interesting to hear what you're talking about. A senator speaks of the need to explain things to people. I think the Icelanders just really understand what we've been doing, the present government. I referred the river in my reply to what. Birgir In an interesting survey published yesterday, Þórarinsson indicated that 84% of the population wants to have a more stable or more aggressive position on the border. [[The president calls.]] Is it because the people don't understand what the government is doing, or is it because they really understand and support it? That's the conclusion I draw from this survey, Mr. President, because I trust the Americans very well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u19	Mr. President. Today, we have countless telecommunications, and we rely more on the Internet than ever before in our relationships, communications, and business dealings. We've got some disturbing news coming up from Denmark. It has been found that in Denmark, the U.S. National Security Agency provided light - optic guides so that they could operate their vast network environments on all mankind in a more efficient way than has ever been. There, the counsel of two of our friends to observe the behavior of people online, probably for political purposes. For many reasons, this is unpleasant, especially because it directly affects Icelanders. All the communications of the Icelanders go through three sea cables that all lead through the dance zone. All the e-mails, all the documents, all the telecommunications, all our communications go through these three sea cables. When this goes through this cable that leads into Dana's domain, which has authorized the United States government to monitor what has been delivered through a fiber optic cable, we need to know what's going on. If Americans were interested in peering into government relations with other countries, they would be wise to do so, for the Washington government has repeatedly shown that they are ready to spy on their friends. America is loaded, e.g. Angela Merkel, a German bagman, and actually his closest ally. It would be naive for us to believe that they would spare us something special. America's interest in Iceland is certainly there, as Mike Pence and Mike Pompeos have shown, and in fact, other examples. So I find it normal to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Has he discussed these specific spys with Danish or U.S. government officials? Have the U.S. government asked to spy out this country directly, as they have done in Denmark? And has he sought information on this risk, and how can it be appreciated and even prevented?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I think this case will be reviewed. We've been informed about it for obvious reasons, and I've been in some contact with my North American coal lately. But we will meet specifically in the near future, first the Norwegian Ministers and the Baltic Ministers will meet together, and then the Norwegian Ministers will meet where this case will be adopted and what we have talked about, which are Internet security. I don't lie in my mind that when it comes to it, I don't feel awake enough. We are, for example. The only state in the Atlantic Community that is not involved in the Italian mansion, we are the only North American state that is not involved in the Helsinki mansion, and this is linked directly and indirectly. I think it should be our priority to take care of these matters better. These cases have frequently been discussed at meetings, especially at our Norwegian coal meetings and also at the discovery of the Norwegian Ministers and the Baltic Ministers. For example, we talked about this much at the City meeting last summer. We're not an island when it comes to these matters. Even if we are an island, this environment is an environment that requires us to be alert. I'd also like to call attention to Björn Bjarnason's son's report, which is the continuation of the Kerryenberg report, in which these matters are specifically addressed. It's a unique matter. Sadly, a member of the body is not unique. I need to get better information about this, and I don't have to say that no one has come to me, either from that country as far as possible. A senator mentioned or mentioned anything, and asked me to get a spy for the Icelanders. I haven't had it in my house yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u21	Mr. President. It's nice to hear that. Secretary of State intends to bring this up to meetings of Norwegian advisers, but I thought that all foreign politics lacked in reply to the highest degree. Minister. He did not even want to mention the United States by name, and in effect, he did not answer to his opinion of this spy otherwise but, indeed, that it was serious. Of course it's serious. They're spying on the possible communications of all Icelanders and certainly all the communications of many other countries. We must be able to have a slightly better answer because this is a serious national security issue. Yes, it's right next to the highest. Ministers that we need to be much more alert in this category, but claiming to be more alert is not the same as doing something. We need to be much more alert. We could certainly participate in institutions in Tallinn and Helsinki. But what about taking the initiative, e.g. by talking to the ambassadors of Denmark and the United States? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u22	A respectable president. First, to be said, these matters will be at least things on my table. But if you do. A senator wants to know what my opinion is and how I'm using it, it's national security. I feel that Iceland and I were pretty asleep when it comes to it. This has been recorded, and I have repeatedly called attention to the fact that these are important matters. Safety issues are not just the traditional security issues we know in recent decades. The world is changing. Technology has advanced dramatically, and we are seeing threats that we have not seen before. It is not a small matter, a respectable president, to ask for it and to emphasize that we participate in international cooperation to protect ourselves from these threats. I hope so. A senator supports me in this because it's no secret that I think we have to go hard when it comes to Internet security. If we're allies in it, a respectable president, that's good, because here's work to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u23	A respectable president. We're here on a bill to correct the change in various laws to face the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus and further workforces. Unfortunately, it has to be said just as it is that there are many faults on the bill. Sadly, though much of it is good, it is difficult to support it. A large number of people are being caught outside this issue. At the beginning of the epidemic, the government immediately promoted the partial improvement process. This operation was useful to many and prevented a total loss of income for a number of homes and businesses in the country. However, the way was not faultless, as noted many times. Rewards are valuable resources that are useful especially to those who are employed as employees. This means that the number of people who have suffered a massive loss of income cannot take advantage of the partial improvement process. There are students, parents of long-lost children, artists, cab drivers, private contractors, and others. These groups of society have repeatedly brought the government to the attention of their problems, but we are very poor. It is not surprising, therefore, that once again the government should refuse to take action to embrace that group. Artists often operate in unorthodox formats. Yes, it is the nature of the art that a measure of freedom must exist in the environment of creation. Consider, for example, musicians, who do not earn money to write the music, although much work goes into it, and, in fact, little or no income for playing, whether it's on the radio or through a flow band. It is not until the music is moved to a concert where income begins to return. Because the situation prevents these earners from getting back, this group of people will suffer enormous loss of income. The same evidence also applies to other artists. Motive artists rely on exhibitions that are subject to various restrictions today as a result of preventive measures. Painters, sculptures, and performance artists rely on introductions. All these people are going to lose their income because of the situation. Then the business is very valuable and usually not much more about summer opportunities. However, because of the epidemic, it was necessary to cancel a number of events during the summer. Of course, the number of tourists'income has also been greatly affected. Because of the irregularity of artists'income, they vary in their ability to obtain employment benefits. Many may have spent months without income because of the prospect of earning money at an event during the coming years. Because of this, they have not paid insurance regularly and may not have credit rights. Then artists and other independent contractors have repeatedly called for a review on the basis of unemployment insurance, where the system requires that people demonstrate a considerably higher income than many have survived. After all, people are struggling with art, and many have to live many lean years before seeing the sun. Artists tend to scrap on a regular year trip, so it is not as good as when their income completely dries up. Nevertheless, they come to a closed door when they seek help from the government. This has made it difficult for artists to get through the crowd that has been formed by the Labour Office. Their applications tend to take longer to be reimbursed than employees' applications. Many have had to wait for months for their release. In the meantime, they can hide death from shelling and live in complete uncertainty about the future. Then people who do the reconstituted work need to do it, i.e. both individually and as part-time worker, to choose between applying for privileges as private or employee. They may be unable to show more money than they are entitled to take advantage of more than half the money they earn. Despite everything, they're being overlooked again. The majority of them admit that there is a problem in the system, and they call for faster work on reviews. It's just not acceptable to throw the ball back to the Ministry. Artists need their solution right away. We're supposed to provide them with help and care for them right now. These words also apply to many others, e.g. it would have been very easy to put in a bill something for micromask. I'm sorry, there's nothing in there. What's the situation with the group that needs to live at 220,000 bucks? in a month apart from walking, cooking, and everything has gone up? It is still more important that you do not find it easy to get help because there your applications have increased by 40% and up to 200%. It tells us that there is a crisis. A large group of people are under pressure. The large group of people who are sick should not get anything. What's the situation with seniors? Good for some, but really bad for others. And what are you going to do for an older citizen in this? Nothing, no more than usual. They do not have because - as mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, not so long ago - they're so great at it. Social security spending at a fixed number of years has been doubled from 40 billion to 80 billion. It's supposed to show that the good ones of older citizens and those in the social security system are not involved in all kinds of variables, such as the impairments, which at the same time increased from 30 billion to 60 billion and still rise. He does not mention that this group has only had an increase according to the index price of consumption, but not the pay line. He does not take into account that this group was left after the crash and was not corrected like everyone else, and they have not received their pay experience until then. Similarly, a minister does not take into account how he has increased the tax burden on this group, wide banks. He does not take into account the tremendous increase in tax burden, since personal discount has been kept low. Poor things are increasing rapidly, and more and more are in poor condition. But what does this government do? Does she make sure that everyone sits at the same table? No, no, no. Far from it. She pushs the problem ahead and says that she's going to do something for this group later and maybe dust off old promises when it comes to elections. Then there is one group who is in terrible trouble, parents of long - suffering children. It sucks to see it in the committee's opinion how to serve that group. It says, by permission of the president, word for word: ▪ With this change, it was permitted to pay the candidates of children who had a valid management assessment during the specified period, a single payment of 25% of full care fees for one month because of increased care for certain conditions fulfilled. What does this mean in English? Yes, it is simple. This means that the candidates for long-term sick children with adequate care evaluations between March 16 and April 4 could apply for additional payment for Covid-19. These are monotherapy due to the increased care of children who have been born from the Covid-19 pandemic. The level of the single payment is up to a maximum of 48,108 k. What an oven. This small payment, 48,108k, isn't in today. But it is also a serious requirement for this reproach. We are talking about people who have long - suffering children and who are trying to work too. The requirement is made clear here on the U.S. National Institute of Insurance, by permission of a president: ▪ The pay condition is that the following circumstances arose between March 16 and May 4: Service, e.g. The school or daycare was down. A child could not have attended service because of the situation. The underlying disease of the child has led to a need to be at home (involved as a risk factor by the surgeon's office for severe COVAD-19) infection. At the same time, these conditions have been observed for at least 15 days in the above period. Fifteen days without pay. 48,108 k. maximum. You've heard the figures, 16,000,17,000, up to 30,000. We have also heard of people with long - suffering children who are just losing their jobs. It also tells us that the Constitution is not being carried out, that everyone is equal to the law. How on earth can the government afford to say, "You get, you get, and you don't? " There's no evidence to back that up. This is just the government's decision to save certain groups and leave the rest behind. It really sucks to think that we, a respectable president, are in a position like this, as I have discussed. There are other factors involved in this bill, e.g. in the two - month extension and, fortunately, a four - month extension to a year, should have been, if normal, extended to six months, and then reviewed when we came together to Congress on October 1, because it has not been tested for its success. I think it'll work well if you give it long enough notice. We know of this and learned that some countries have extended such partial improvements to 18 months. That is why the question is, Why on earth does this government do things this way? How is it that when you see the statistics as to what has been planned in the seminary, and what has been required to pay that in most cases the sky is in between? In some cases, only a fraction of the amount planned for this has been released, only 5% ◯10%. It tells us that there's something wrong in the system. I'm beginning to think that this system is just being fooled. The public and all of us are told that this will cost a tremendous amount of money and it's calculated, but it won't. It tells us that there's a table for a table. There is money to arrange for students to make sure that a maximum of 10 units, which is in the bill, does not come from 10 units to 12, but to 22 units, as they requested. It is very strange to invite students to a conversation and not to listen to a single word. This was made clear. Not one suggestion from them came in here. Yet they still work 70-80% of students with school, and if they work with school, they pay the system, and if they pay into the system, they have the right to get it out of the system. No, it was all taken. And as noted, why aren't they helping artists? Why aren't you helping an independent developer? We need to realize that there is a certain group that has been waiting at the Labs office for up to ten or eleven weeks. I don't want to be paid for a month's match. If people spend two months without pay and pay rent or other living expenses, they get into trouble. But having no pay for five or six months is scary. But there is also a group who know how to spend a year without pay. I've seen letters, received letters through my hatches, reported that my social security, government insurance, will be 0K. For a year. Only 0K. Why? Yes, because I received one payment from a pension fund, one payment from a pension fund that bought me to pay up a busy palace. So I didn't have any left. But then all I had to do was tighten my belt and get paid for a year. These people have been in and this sucks and shouldn't happen in our society, such ugly things shouldn't be done. It's just ugly. Considering the amount and everything that have been said to be used for these operations, it's really completely incomprehensible that they intend to ignore this large group and will try to drive it through like this. But that's a government decision, and it's a responsibility. I won't be a part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u24	Madam President. Here we will discuss the adjustment of the bill to correct the change in various laws to face the economic impact of the pandemic we are facing. In human language, this is a further workforce. The bill suggests changes in various laws. As an emissary officer on welfare committee, I agree with the majority opinion. It doesn't mean that I think it's perfect, and it doesn't mean I don't feel that I'm making any more changes than you suggest. My agreement is that I feel that this has been a step in the right direction. And it has to be said, as it is, that the welfare committee did not give much time, just as the United States of Congress did, to keep the matter going. It was introduced last week and worked very fast, as had to be done in view of the steps taken. You can go along with each step of the process and reason that you could have gone further or you could have needed more information or something like that. I'm going to take advantage of it in some particular matter later on. Above all, I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to introduce to you the adjustments we make in this particular matter. They're late, but they're here. The main reason is that at the beginning of the morning, we were thinking of putting together a large package of action that we presented at a press conference. We have planned to make it a suggestion for financial policy that will be discussed later today. Part of that suggestions is directly understood to this particular case. So I have made them available, and I hope that they are very attentive despite their late arrivals. In this particular case, it can be said that there are many forms of change from the smaller parts of the cut on the welfare committee and from the greater parts as well. I'd say all these adjustments are for the better. And much would have been good if a welfare committee had been able to work all of this, putting the changes together in a slightly more balanced way because I am not better than that everyone is heading in the same direction. However, it is very important to distinguish between temporary actions due to present circumstances or changes in the size of the picture, i.e. changes to your system as a whole. In between, there are such suggestions. They are fine paybacks, and to improve this environment. But I believe that we are now to focus on temporary arrangements because we are simply not to lose our focus. We're looking at the system, and we're going to have an opportunity to get our emphasis on it. I believe our time is best spent in viewing temporary action because we believe, not true, that this is a temporary crisis, a temporary shock, not just a community in general, not just the economy, but a temporary trauma that our group is dealing with primarily in the form of employment loss and loss of income. The suggestions we make on restoration to the case here are three factors. We suggest that there will be more room for work along unemployment. Today, the pay line is just over 70,000 bucks. and we recommend it will be tripled temporarily, up to 12 months. Because of this, there are many benefits, especially the motivation or opportunity, for people who are faced with the loss of a job and possibly the reality that their employment will not be the same after some time, to develop and develop new ideas. This suggestion is especially exciting to me when it comes to travel services and secondary jobs. I think we can all imagine that the service will be somehow different when it takes off again. And she'll be flying. Who better to predict what these changes will be and to develop new jobs, new avenues, new ideas, than those who know how to do this business, have worked in it, and are temporarily out of work? The result of this procedure too is that it will not be a financial bonus because it is about the holiday goal alone. The other two suggestions we offer. One is to go beyond the original social minister's bill and to make adjustments in terms of income-related unemployment benefits. In our suggestions, we want to see them until 12 months at a time and make a decision now. It is based on the fact that our main experts, those who work to analyze and use data to predict the future, whether in our country or in countries around us, say that there is a chance that after 12 months from now we will see the sun. There is a great deal of security in the face. If people today know that they will be on income - related benefits, they will be safe for the next 12 months. It does not necessarily ride a fat horse away, but it is considerably better than hard unemployment. In addition, we would also like to put our arms around people who have been unemployed for so long that they are already out of income - related benefits or have had income so that they do not change everything. We contribute to a so-called unemployment improvement, i.e. to give $25,000 to those who do not have income - related resources. Additional per month, also to the next 12 months. We're always looking for 12 months with these three options. And why a $25,000.? Yes, because it on top of bare unemployment is the amount that works properly without going to another right. The linking is remembered like this, and this can be done quickly and safely. Of the available data, we appreciate the two suggestions of three that cost at 10 billion dollars. All of these are temporary resources and are intended to control the large economic impact of the crown virus. As we know, not everyone is. We're all in that boat. This affects our social life. This affects our health, indeed, those who get sick. And we all have the responsibility to get out of it. The economic impact, however, is limited to a single group. We know which group this is. We are to keep our eyes fixed on him temporarily. The other major challenge is to put everything into work in such a way that those who have lost their jobs get employment opportunities where their skills and knowledge are useful, not just because of them, but because of the community. Job's employment is not merely a means to support yourself. In the business of people, society has its valuables. We're nothing if we don't have that valuable creation. We look to 12 months, and our suggestions depend on taking this step step by step - which is convenient, since it can be calculated back and forth, which is insecurity for those in need of this. And just as we trust, for example, their words and predictions best known when the outbreak itself is being spread, there is every reason to listen also to those who know best in the analysis of statistical data and impact on economic forecasts, economic models, and the like, that refers to it as 12 months. Let's listen. If it turns out after three or six months that it's not 12 months, it's something else that we're gonna do. We'll never get worse. And while the 10 billion cost are enormous, it is a drop in the ocean according to all the other procedures. We know, though, that this will be useful. A few days ago, the nuclear reactor was taken up on the triggers taken up, and it was of great interest. There was a pack of measures one, two, then three. Most of it was put in the first 230 billion if I remember correctly. Of these, 60 billion were direct funds. Most of this has failed in the way men viewed it. That in itself is not unnatural. We were all in a fog, trying to stay in the fog. We now know that what no one was interested in, the things that did not work, were loans. Who owes his company money when he doesn't know anything about future income options? Other options may be stuck somewhere in the system because it was not ready to accept all these requests for multiple complicated applications. That's a good thing to do. But what continued was the public assessment of special property savings. It's not too good. We do not want the flagship being used by governments to help people out of a crisis, allowing them to take out their pension savings. That's fine with, if you need to, but not the main. People have taken out 20 billion of their special property savings. The proposed operation costs 10 billion. That's a lot of money, but it's not very high in the context. We know this will help. We have the numbers. This will go directly to the heart of those who need it. Like the other changes proposed here, these are positive but beyond the length of time, the loss of uncertainty, and the degree to which they exist. We all know that unemployment - and this case we're discussing here that action on a labour market - is very expensive for society all, and the results are many. The negative long - term effects, both economic and social, are very high, and we need to cope with them as much as we can. These suggestions can be used to deal with the problems of those who are unemployed, individuals, and their families. However, in the suggestion package, we also offer a variety of steps to get our business wheels started again. And then all the bikes. We are talking about investments in public projects, hurrying progress. We're talking about the motivation for action on climate and direct action that will simply protect and create jobs. And we will discuss all of this and carefully introduce it in the financial discussion. However, these are the suggestions we believe are relevant to the fine subject under discussion. Madam President. I have a lot on this matter to say, e.g. I have an upbuilding criticism of assistance to independent experts, artists, how we put our students in charge, etc. This bill is not far enough to solve their problems. However, governments are a real problem because it is complex and must be very careful about adjusting these matters to a good degree. What I'm trying to say is that it's a long-term project. We need, for example. beginning to realize that a traditional recruitment relationship between an individual and an employer is a little older. Today, people tend to have jobs at more than one company, accept a salary for more than one person's work, and then be prosecuting something for themselves as well. Our operating system, what catches people, must take into account that changed reality. On the other hand, I think it could be a real challenge if we were to pad the improvement system into temporary rescue measures and, on the other hand, make us less comfortable. I'd like to see a change in the direction that we're letting more people into our options. They're temporary. There's no such thing as abusing these options. We're helping people in an acute crisis that we've done nothing for ourselves to create. These are external circumstances. Then you need to take into account all the diverse criticism groups about the matter, take it into account in a closer, careful discussion of the self - unemployment relief system, how we will conduct it for a longer time. It would be a wish to have a good time with the council. I'm gonna stay out of those things instead. This has been a significant mention of my colleagues on the welfare committee. Some forms of adjustment lead to action, and they are good and positive. The key point here, in my opinion, is that we use this tool, the bill for adjusting the law to meet the economic impact of the pandemic, the workforce, to ease the uncertainty of people, to keep them under cover for 12 months, which on the other hand gives them the security and any financial security and opportunities to create something without a direct impact on the benefits being guaranteed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u25	A respectable president. First, I want to say the word with the question. paritaprevir In the beginning, Árnadóttir Kolblnadnad, who says in her committee list that it is very boring that this case did not get the attention and care it deserves. It complains that the committee was intended for too short a time to discuss the matter, etc. It's an old story and new, it's not the first time anybody's complained about it, either here in a pita or in a committee party. I'd like to review the existing adjustments. However, to emphasize the urgency of the word. A member of the committee's opinion is here made up of all the signs, except perhaps the last one, that there could have been a greater solidarity on this issue within the committee, either a greater part or a smaller part of it, or other members of the committee that would not be included in the two million. Here was a very late motion, actually when the discussion was restarted. That's not why. Councilmen accusing themselves of making changes rather than just now but too often when we are in a race for time, it is a characteristic that is far too fast. According to this, after reviewing the proposed changes, I firmly assume that I will support all of them, both my parts and most of them. They are many similar unless they vary in length. In addition, some suggest that the part - time improvement process will be extended. The bill involves extending about two months. As soon as we began discussing it on the committee, it became evident that it was almost meaningless because no company plans itself in the future only two months when it comes to professional relations. The standard notice is three months, so obviously companies are used to it and have to be able to plan more ahead than that, and that's why two months is not enough. We discussed this in the committee, and we spoke a lot about it and pointed it out. The greater part of the project can be considered to be a step forward that will allow the partial improvement to be extended by four months, good and good. Then comes a 1st smaller thing, and suggests six months, which is good, and then comes a second smaller thing, and suggests nine months, which is probably better. I expect to support it as well as my council. But this shows that things could have been discussed a little better. There is no disagreement about the options in themselves. There is disagreement on how far to extend. It is a matter of how long we think they will be able to cope with people and their job life during the epidemic. How far is it? We do not know, so it must be best for the companies and the people in the country to see the greatest outcome. Rather, we should extend the part-change route more than we feel possible that we may need and may eliminate them or remove the resources when it is no longer needed or just allow them to run their course, which is not necessarily the worst that could happen. But what is very bad is when companies cannot organize themselves from the talk, do not know beforehand how long it is, and that affects the decision today. This is not a matter of discomfort. Rather, it is a company with employees and the staff themselves need to know what it is going for in a more predictable future. In many months there are less than a predictable future in the job business, especially when it comes to personnel contact. I had hoped that the majority of the items would extend the part-change process more than what he suggests, to form as suggested in the modifications of smaller items that have been received since then. Another factor that is fine is the fact that older pensions do not result in a decrease in unemployment insurance according to the decisions they make. That's a good thing. But there is something else that I would like to discuss as part of the committee that seems to be unconvinced. That's from my 1st point of view, yeah. 5th a.m. That's the north side. "A Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter, i.e. that the bill does not assume the position of parents of long - suffering and disabled children This is addressed in some adjustment proposals 1 and 2 smaller parts, which we will, of course, support. The majority says there's an opinion and there's been an opinion of a lot of time at the Ministry, i.e. the situation of parents in general who cannot work because they have to care for children who could not go to school because of their addictions. It is good and happy to look at it, but I cannot quite see why it is not to be treated now, as does 1 and 2 smaller things. They are available. Why can't we just vote with them? Now I think I know the Senate job well enough to know that I think my options will probably be cut off just for being from a smaller section. The usual way to get something out of the smaller section is to reason back and forth. If the majority then agrees with any suggestion from the smaller part, the majority of the items will normally put it forward themselves, perhaps in a new form of change, something similar. It's happened. The majority, however, would like to have the majority of the council members' names on it and the majority of the committees and the like. In this situation, however, it is not easy to see that there is a great chance that we can do so between the 2nd and the 3rd. due to lack of time. I want it to sting. A greater proportion of the committee will consider whether we could not have agreed on these suggestions from the lesser section if we had just given us a little more time to deal with the situation. You see, I think I am. I don't think there's a lot in the motion of the smaller part, which is completely impossible to think of as much of it. I think these are the characteristics of the time map and of the problems that come into existence because of him. This is very harmful, and I sometimes get tired of listening to myself as I listen to the influence of timelessness on the work of the council, but it really is important, not from a political point of view, but from the point of view that we are doing our work as well as we would like to do. And then, of course, there's always talk because it's like it's always been, like there's some argument against it. But I'm not going to spend the entire talk. It's the first memory part, huh? paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir also suggests that there will be room for clearance of the unemployed materials for study without improvement. The bill includes raising that authority from 10 ECTS units to 12, but with the discussion, in particular from the Board of College of Iceland, it was reported that it was not enough. 12 ECTS units are insufficient to be useful for an extremely large group of people and the minimum to obtain a head loan of 22 units. So it is very strange that no more than 12 ECTS units are expected in this respect. In fact, the University of Iceland's School of College wanted to go to 30 and myself, I would love to. But here, of the 1st smaller portion, it is suggested to increase from 12 to 22 ECTS units, which, of course, we also support. On this point another interesting subject was published in the title of the University of Iceland. It points out that the bill assumes to match the unemployed group who want to go to school as students who want to work with school have been praying for years. It is a bit ironic to see that this is a meeting with some viewpoints that have been present at the University of Iceland for years. I feel that it makes such clear that students need to be listened to more. I think it's almost embarrassing, or nothing about it, I think it's embarrassing how obvious it is not to be listened to the University of Iceland or to students in general, as they complain. It's kind of crazy to be on the committee and receive guests, students are the quietest guests with everything they've got on the clear, good cause, good reason, the evidence is in favor, and one of the complaints from the system against the various institutions of the state, and, in my opinion, the council is that students are not listening to them. It's pretended they didn't say what they said. I'm sorry. It's one thing to have evidence against the motion. There is another thing to say: We don't have money, or this system has to be like this or gay. But that's not often the answers. It's just that the answers aren't any. There's nothing to listen to. I just don't like that. I felt that this was very clear because we are not here dealing with students who want to work more or can do more without cutting off the student loans, but people who want to go to school. It's funny that they all listened much more to them and that there's a lot more understanding about them than about the students. I think it's good to wonder why it is. I think it's a combination of students being younger than workers and, of course, that they still have some mental attitude toward student loans and study aid that they're not. This is our investment, our community, in our community, and we should view it that way. We know that e.g. Students who attend the II Parliament's Committee Meeting show that being younger is not the same as not knowing what you're talking about, not at all. I have a feeling that this kind of thing gives me an atmosphere not listening to these people. I'd also like to discuss the latest change in plans that came from then on. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son. It means raising the cost of unemployment three times and an extension from six months to twelve months. That's a very interesting suggestion for me. In fact, I haven't had time to think about it more than just sitting here in the Senate Hall and listening to what's happened. It's been explained by a senator in a pita very shortly ago. But I think it's a neat suggestion, because it does not exactly raise the budget and the financial cost, if any of them are above their heads, because instead of putting in more money, it simply isn't impaired when people work more. The type of unemployment we now face is caused by a very sudden breakdown in the markets I would think, with the above notice, that making it possible for the unemployed group today to be much more anxious to get to work. After long unemployment, people lose a little edge and often become hopeless. This can affect how well the resources work and how well the catalyses are working, such as increasing the cut-off value in those groups. Today, a large group of people are suddenly out of work and have not been out of work for a long time, at least not yet calling it a long - term lack of work. There are a lot of people who want to go on new projects, try new things, and experiment, especially when the epidemic is over and the tourism is taking over, which they will do. To what extent we do not know, but it will, of course, do so. Then there will be the need for new ideas and new solutions that are now out of work because the business is gone, in whatever position is needed to find new ones. The group is now more or less unemployed and is likely to gain unemployment at this time, when it becomes a real need for innovation and new thinking and new solutions for tourism. Then it is so important that these people can share in building up without sacrificing the little security they already have. I think this great solution and better as I have convinced myself of it by talking about it here, but of course, with the awareness that the committee has not been given a chance to take in such ideas and discuss them in some way materially. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. As I said early in my talk, I assume that the Porita council supports all the adjustments. They're all good, as far as I can see, from more parts and smaller parts, and the main differences seem to be over how far to go. I'm rather on the side of economics that under these circumstances it's very difficult to do too much. I think it's quite long before the government does too much to deal with the situation, because even everything the government can do is not enough. But we'll see what happens. I want to slip down here to a greater extent that, in view of circumstances, we may need to change and use techniques that we're not used to. And perhaps the other part just votes with a suggestion from the smaller parts, a suggestion which is just marked by members of the smaller section. This special situation today may give them a special practice. But it would be something new, and hopefully something that will become a one-day tradition when the Council starts acting like people in the country think it's working.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u26	President. We'll discuss the main social and child-regional intervention bill which contains several measures to deal with the pandemic Covid19. I'm going to allow myself, President, to be a bit critical because much of this is just against my understanding and knowledge of how we active as human beings. There's a lot of nice, minor fixes and extensions that you don't need to discuss here. What I would like to do in particular, but what I especially want to stress in this talk is a new campaign of the government, which is being passed on by the bill entitled Study. That sounds super-excited. It just sounds wonderful because study is an opportunity, not just an investment, but an investment. It is in itself a good idea to let the unemployed in education, but just as the government's other actions in the Covid epidemic are characterized by the release of great custody, the cheap, and the vast need for the present rulers to be aware of and no understanding that learning is not only an opportunity but also an investment. Investment in people, society, and the future. Let's start with the obvious nonsense that comes from letting those who are working on unemployment while leaving all those who are already studying, even if they have gone to school after they have lost their job because of the Covid pandemic. It is not only unfair and unfair to them but also illogical. What does it mean to understand all those who are already studying from those who want to start a new study? What kind of injustice is that next year, one student in the living room is going to make full unemployment while the other half will be totally free of help? This follows that the government could not even pay the students unemployment bills because of a huge loss of income. summer. It is not necessary to forbid students to apply for support as they study in the fall. That is a decision contrary to the appeals and needs of students. Icelandic students are forced to do much more by studying than students in Scandinavia to make ends meet, but now their jobs are only blown up. So they are in even worse position at the beginning of this school year than often before, and the solution is to support the others in the classroom. It doesn't have to be this way, Mr. President, but that's what the government and the government seem to want. Or there is some extreme lack of understanding, incoherent thinking that lacks a complete vision of the future and of society and of these actions. But I don't think that is the most serious aspect of this process. The most serious of all is the tremendous predestination manifest in the terms of custody. To gain access to this campaign of the government, they need to consult with the workforce's adviser, who will evaluate the skills and position of the candidate and then choose a study that is suitable for the candidate instead of any study. The study should be recognized as work-offs, such as d- team 1. Section 12. the legislation on labour market operations. In human language, it means that governments must first decide for themselves whether they consider the study to be beneficial. It's good for who, you ask. The prospective labour market, which precedes everything else. You have to stamp, and first you can let the candidate in the study, provided that the counselor appreciates the opportunity to enter it. But that's not the only thing, Mr. President. The applicant must have been out of work for six months before wanting a contract; the study needs to be used for job search after the workforce's assessment, but it is totally unclear how to evaluate it. The student's education loan is not to be used by the student's education fund. So the deal goes to just one truth of study anyway. This strategy reflects so well the prejudices that have appeared in all of the government's actions. To limit expenses, the requirements should be so narrow, as narrow as possible, so that individuals and families do not take too much of the cake. The job market is put ahead of the people, the workforce is good at marking as we have known it so far, no thought of how it is changing because we have no idea. More than anything else, though, this shows the government's old - fashioned, conservative view of education. The goal is not to strengthen the individual and give him the opportunity to improve his skills. Rather, we are training for useful teeth in the cost - growing machine of a job market, as we have known him so far. We do not know anything, nor do we consider how that workforce is changing and developing into the future. In these difficult times, we are not supposed to make it more difficult for individuals and families to create narrow conditions and systems that are hard to fit. It's not our job. We are far more involved in removing conditions and impairments. We are to increase financial support to vulnerable groups such as unemployed, disability, and the elderly. Now it is time to reduce barriers and create flexibility for people to follow in these uncertain times. We're supposed to cancel conditions and impairments. Our mission is to create soil for people to plant seeds and grow, because the ideas that will enhance the quality of the future society and will not change the workforce come from this house, from us or from counselmen. They come from the people of the country, and we don't know what they're going to look like, and it's not our job to know in advance. We're just supposed to make sure that the soil is there and the opportunities are equal. The government says that studying is an opportunity, but it doesn't quite cover the claim. Study is an opportunity if the government says it's good for the job market. Study is an opportunity if you apply at the right time and then just for a semester. Study is an opportunity if a professional counselor thinks you are qualified. Study is an opportunity if the counselor feels that you will be directly employed after graduation. It is very easy for the government to make its claims work if it is then allowed to ignore unnecessary and harmful conditions behind it. President. We're supposed to strengthen people to get into the unknown and create something new. It is a place of social value, not in a government's archipelago of what is suitable for people and society and what is not. It is not the role of politicians to make boxes to squeeze people into. People don't need politicians to make sense. This is in direct opposition to all that the labour market calls for. When it comes to the workforce, we're supposed to support innovation and individuals with ideas. We are to create soil for people to thrive. I think politicians misunderstand their role when it comes to cooperation with individuals and the educational system and misunderstood their role. I think it's a shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u27	A respectable president. There is plenty to do at the council, members of Parliament, to adjust their speaking classes, and to adapt to the great busyness of the above. Hv. Harðardóttir Oddný was supposed to be a friend of mine before, but we've been changing seats on the list all morning, so she's coming right after me and she's just coming after me. A respectable president. I'm going to discuss a committee opinion with a change in proposal for further work practices. As explained earlier, the bill is presented in the light of changing employment conditions where there is still considerable uncertainty about the Covid pandemic. A major decrease has occurred in many sectors, and it remains unforeseeable for how long that contraction will last. But it is also important that the council, the government, and all of us do more than little in this regard, as has been observed many times. I feel - and I feel overwhelmed - the public has been content with what has been done and the importance that we continue to do so. There is a need for action, and government action is involved. There are temporary changes to cope with local labour market situations. However, it is important to stress that in preparation the overall review of the law on unemployment insurance is in cooperation with the labour market partners and because of this review, some of our actions have not been completed as we might have chosen, which will be established later, and other members of the council have already discussed. A greater proportion of welfare committees are entitled to make changes in job-related recycling in the bill, but the aim of this procedure is to enable most people to be active at work markets with a holistic system of rehabilitation. Here's an important step. Then there is a guarantee to employers and independent workers to pay the loss of pay on the parents of long - suffering or severely disabled children who cannot live their daily lives in areas of service to them. This group is met with an increase in care improvement. So the committee aims to accept views on this subject on the global reexamination of social security laws. It is important that borderline groups get their solutions, but most important is that the effects of the Covid pandemic end. He has had a tremendous influence on these groups, and in these circumstances it becomes evident that their insurance and laws and the execution of their bodies would have been more assured. The bill suggests that a person in the unemployment insurance system gains the right to income - related unemployment benefits for up to six months instead of three. This is a particularly important procedure to cope with situations that have developed in the community because of the pandemic. This procedure compares individuals who have lost their jobs and who will have reduced employment prospects for the next cycle because it is clear that the vast uncertainty conditions will last longer than expected at the beginning. By means of this arrangement, homes and households in the country are strengthened under challenging circumstances. In this regard, it is worth reminding us that in the most unemployment - related area in Southnes, families, breadwinners, and even children are working at the airport, where the work has almost been down since spring. It would have been a terrible situation if we hadn't gone that way. Hence, the spring Independence Party, led by a financial minister, was immediately discussed that the three - month pay - related unemployment would probably not be sufficient, and it is now being replaced and highly important to people in the South and to all who need it. A respectable president. The majority of the Committee stresses that the part - time work route has been used to protect the recruitment relationship of thousands of employees from employers. If not, it might have been necessary to face the same government cost elsewhere. Thus, a greater proportion of welfare committees have suggested changes in the bill that the budget will be extended about four months, not two, to 31 December 2020, due to the high uncertainty still in the labour market. The extended period suggested by the majority of the Committee may also be useful in allowing governments to reevaluate measures. In this regard it is worth reminding us that the law expected that two months would be extended, but it was clearly stated in the committee, both in the larger and smaller parts, and in the same number of visitors that the time was too short and the companies and the individuals had to make plans further, and that was a complete agreement. Now it's time to reevaluate the partial reform system, whether we will continue to do so in the next year or if there will be any other way. The time that will be spent will be used to find them. A respectable president. The committee discussed the overlap of reform systems and the fact that the payments of pensions can work as a reduction in partial reforms. There have been cases where the payments of pensions have been paid to reduce the damage. I've always fought for improved seniors and disability. Therefore, it is particularly enjoyable that a majority of the welfare committees suggest changes in the payment of pensions under social security law do not interfere with unemployment insurance funds, making use of the part - time job route. This is a new route, perhaps a temporary route, but it also reminds us that the losses due to older citizens and disability are, of course, something to be reviewed and, of course, is being over and over and over again, and I hope that these laws and adjustments will be made in order to improve the situation. We've talked about the fact that we're going to do enough. It may never be enough, but we're going to do more than we're going to do less.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u28	Madam President. Of course, we are dealing with a very serious situation. It won't kill anyone. By the end of July, 17,104 persons were complete without employment in this country and were paid unemployment insurance from the Labour Office, and 3,815 were paid damages against a decreased employment rate. A total of 20,919 people. These numbers do not include those who are currently on notice, but projections generally assume that unemployment is increasing in the autumn along with the long - term non - working industry. Since these figures were compiled at the Work Office, 62 were quit at the Free and 133 from Istavia, for example, recent reports. If we are unable to create new jobs, if the epidemic continues, if the vaccine is not found and the crisis deepens, we are in even more trouble. In July, Southland unemployment was 7.3%. In the East, it was 4%, Northland East 5.5%, Northern West 3.3%, in West Fjords 3.2%, Westland 5.3%, and in Southnes 16.5% and in the capital area 9.3%. The total lack of work in the country in July was 8.8%. The average pay for full-time jobs is around 800,000 bucks. a month according to the figures set out in Iceland's Habitat on pay for 2018. As noted in the Committee of the United Nations on the Health Committee, why. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir, chairman of the Committee, is a remuneration in Iceland for paymen's rights to ensure the survival of job security. The design is based on a baseline North American policy and was established in the region after a great battle between the labor movement and political groups that took the fight for the common people. This is an enormous interest in the homes affected by unemployment, but unemployment insurance is also economic and economic goals. It is very important to remember that when we are in a demand crisis, and when things are the way they are now, it is important that people have money between their hands to put into the economy, as it were, and that they provide for their families and themselves. The basic non-employment is today 289,510k. in a month that is considerably lower than the lowest income insurance that is 335,000. In addition, each child is paid at 11,580 k, or 4% of basic non-employees, with each child under 18 years of age. With the approval of the Generals on May 11, 2020, each child was raised to 6% temporarily to propose the United States Council proposal and then went to 17,371k. This, however, applies only to December 31st of this year. A person on basic workaholics must have three children under the age of 18 by his own contributions to obtain minimum income insurance and obtain more than 335,000 dollars. per month. Each person sees a family that has to live under such circumstances for a long time, weeks, and months, and he has a serious problem. The risk factor is high when entering the income-related period, but is even higher when you leave income connections to basic workaholics. Job searchers have the right to pay-related unemployment benefits for up to three months at the start of each improved period of up to a maximum of 30 months. Tax - related unemployment benefits, except for 70% of the pay for loss of employment, but at a maximum of 456,44k. per month. The value of those who earn more than 652,000. is therefore more than 30% of the amount added during the income-related period. Thus, improvement in the level is of little value to the overall picture in the period of unemployment. By tax, we have 242,700 dollars basic non-employment. and income related improvements of 348,500 k. These figures show that the financial harm of a person who loses his job is significant and greatly affects the family budget, the family, and the lives and health of the individual. Obviously, a person who needs to earn money significantly reduces his consumption of unemployment. Thus, much and long - term unemployment also has negative effects on economic demand, which again reduces jobs. The effects of the crisis following the epidemic of Covid-19 are more intense on those who lose their jobs and their families. They bear the greatest burdens of the pandemic. Basic employment benefits are far below the minimum wage insurance policy, but to distribute the stocks and reduce loss of income will have to be extended immediately, as it is actually being done and can be welcomed. You've got to raise your basic non-employment benefits. The ASI central management has suggested that they become 95% of the minimum wage insurance and the right to unemployment insurance will be extended by 12 months to meet the growing long-term lack of work. In addition, it is important to increase and increase with each child permanently, as it is ashamedly low as it is in the law, and the partial improvement process will be extended to at least 1st June 2021 to increase visuality in the system. It is now being suggested that the part - time improvement process be extended to years. Job's loss is more serious in crisis than in good health. A number of people lose their jobs at the same time as they create a unique condition that can become very serious in countries where unemployment becomes the most common. Bad side effects of long-term lack of work are known, i.e. increased domestic violence, increased drinking, pessimism, and neglect of children. Today, this is not the case in the homes of all who become chronically inactive. Sadly, though, these are complications. The homes of long - term employees and their children need to be especially careful. In time, it is the most important thing to increase, but it takes time. The cost of employment, however, can be raised immediately. It is important that jobseekers find a job in which their education and experience are most useful. Otherwise, valuable education and specialization may be lost. It has been claimed, including ... oftheapparentsoftheefficiency and the highest. Secretary of the budget, rising unemployment rates, increasing the number of unemployed. So it is important to keep unemployment improvements low when thousands of jobs are low in the pandemic. This comment is encouraging, for there is no work to be done. As many economists, both domestic and foreign, have noted in recent times, it is important to increase unemployment rates, both to save the economy of the households, and to meet a bad situation there as well as to increase the demand for the economy. The people who are on unemployment don't have money to put in a bank book or send them to Tortolans or whatever they are now, but they will go to the store and buy their basics for themselves and their children. Much of the money the state contributes to increasing unemployment insurance comes directly back through taxes and increasing economic activities. However, poverty and the plight of society's homes are very expensive in all sense. Hence, when we in the United States stress the increase in basic non-employment benefits, it is to deal with emergency problems, but also to keep the cost from striking society later on. This is so that in the administrative bill discussed here, the 12,000 persons who, according to employment information, do not receive income - related unemployment benefits but have basic nonemployment benefits. It's 289,510 k. every month and just about 243,000 taps. by tax, as I said before. We in the United States agree with ASI when we say now it's important to raise the unemployment rates to 95% of minimum income insurance. Basic non-employment as a share of the minimum or minimum wage insurance has rocked over the years. In 2009, right after a bank crisis, unemployment improvements were increased to 95% of the minimum. Then they began to fall, and when the right government was in power in 2013 to 2012, they reached 75% of the minimum in 2015. Of course, at that time, there were few people out of work. Lack of employment during a recession is much more serious than unemployment in good health, where many jobs are available, and it is likely that people are not long out of work. Then, in 2018, unemployment insurance was increased by the labor movement and is now 86% of the minimum income insurance policy. It's not much. It's only about to go up to 95% of the minimum insurance policy. In answer to what. paritaprevir Last night, when Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir was measuring for the Commission's committee, I asked why the directors wanted to leave this group and not do anything for him, that 12,000. The population will probably increase in the next year if the epidemic is not reduced and vaccines cannot be made available to the market. Of course, the number of new jobs and new employment opportunities will decrease. Hv. A senator explained that it was too expensive to meet families in the country's worst standing and to carry the heavy load of the pandemic. In our present situation, some may simply be in a better position, and the economic situation of their households is very good than those who have lost their jobs carry the burdens. We in the United States want to distribute our burdens. It's not expensive. If we were to raise basic employment benefits now and let the increase take effect from October 1, the cost would be 1 billion and 35 million. A.K., if we went up to 95% of the minimum insurance policy. Of course, the cost would increase in 2021. In the conversion of the bill, we assume that the increase would be temporary until October 1, 2021. For 12,000, that increase would cost 4 billion and 746 million. K. Of course, it is difficult to see how large the population would be in 2021; it can even vary in some way during 2020, which is below lower numbers. For 12,000, that increase would, say, cost 1 billion and 35 billion. K. In 2020, 4 billion and 746 million. K. in 2021. These are the words of government officials that are too expensive, that the people must bear these burdens, that nothing can be relieved of. It's just gotta be like this. These same people agreed to reduce bank taxes by 11 billion. So it was okay to do that. It helped companies to quit and assumed that this would cost 25 billion. This increased the reimbursement rate for property jobs, costing 8 billion. It's the best procedure, but not too much for the board of directors. And the travel present. If we have the cost of raising basic employment benefits to 95% of the minimum wage insurance in 2020 compared with the rest of the travel we received to buy a place to stay and eat in the summer, it is reduced. That's a small amount. It was 1.5 billion. Madam President. It doesn't matter what context we put these numbers in. It's such a ridiculous argument to say, "We can't spread our burdens. " We cannot lighten up with those who have to carry the damage done to most of the pandemic because it is so expensive. Meanwhile, it's going to break through another to tens of billions. Later this week we will discuss the Kingdom guarantee of loans to Icellands. It may cost us if things go wrong, but the government parties are willing to take that risk. But they do not want to stand by the people who need to support themselves on basic work benefits. Madam President, you may feel that I am not overly upset about this matter. Then I can say that I'm so madly angry at the board of directors and their lack of respect and respect for people who have lost their job that I'm in a bad situation, almost. This is so shameful for the left green, for the Independence Party, for the advance party, who dare to keep people who have lost their job in a pandemic in desperate poverty. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u29	Madam President. I think it's safe for me to accept frustration and anger. I'm going to continue talking about the highest bill. Social and child - Oddný Harðardóttir is concerned with changes that affect people who have lost their jobs. Clearly, the goal of the change is to respond to an emergency because of the virus epidemic. It is true, though, that in the beginning, unemployment had been increasing for over a year before the epidemic with a cooling economy, with the indifference of the present government. The cohesion will support the bill, for it certainly includes improvements, yet it is taking far too little and short steps to cope with the devastating conditions that tens of thousands of people and their homes face for the next few months. This will add to the crisis, increase in in severity, and, above all, bring untold unhappiness to many people. But in an attempt to improve this bill, the United States will submit an adjustment form, including a new one. is expected to increase the basic non-employment rate to 12 months and will be 95% of the minimum wage insurance and the partial improvement step will be extended to June next year to provide people and companies with more leadership. Otherwise, I'm going to refer to a serious committee opinion. Helga Vala Helgadóttir, a member of the Constitument, explains the views of the United States in a more precise way than I will. Madam President. In recent days and weeks, it has been strongly established whether there is an increase in unemployment improvements since today's workforce. Of course, such discussions are completely crazy in situations where there is no work for so many today. Of course, the greatest government project today is that of course a bold job application, far more daring than ever, it will simply take time to fill in the gaps that have been bedridden, especially in direct and secondary activities in commercial tourism that have disappeared from the economy. Thus, thousands of people will need unforeseen time to support themselves and their unemployment benefits, and tens of thousands of people will have to do so on some 200,000 pieces. by taxes, Madam President. The agreement is available in a prince's talk to the right for the effect of a sum of money on a work attitude, but it is quite normal to do so once the situation has returned closer to being able to call normal. Therefore, in the search for reconciliation, the United States suggests that the increase will be temporary, up to one year. In the meantime, let us all strive to create as many projects as possible as possible. But it is clear that the right economic theory is fraught with the weather, for under these circumstances, the Law does not work for supply and demand, and now it is simply not the time to maintain political dogmas and hang itself into some political religion, but it is the time to put forth great effort to protect people's lives and homes. I know it's big to claim that life and home is a game, but, unfortunately, it's just not too big under the circumstances that are going on, with the biggest crisis of our lives for 100 years, or like Kristrún Frostadóttir, chief economist of Movie Bank, made it clear for a weekend interview show, with the permission of president: ◯ This is our war that we didn't have to war in 1940. guard Madam President. The government took quite a step in spring with a declaration that there was much to be done. Business support in times of crisis is certainly extremely important, but it is not a substitute for human assistance. In addition, it has been found that most of the government's actions in the interests of businesses were lost for the past six months. Hence, the question arises: Would it not have been more beneficial, as we pointed out in our time, to make even more part of them turn directly to human beings, to do more than less for the homes of the country? All powders were put into getting companies through the scratch, as it was called, to make sure that they were in the best position to run through it so that they could exert a powerful resistance. Among other things, laws were accepted that encouraged companies directly to quit and adapt to the changing demand for the autumn as tourists flock to the country. By means of a steady limit of travel, it is evident that this will be delayed, and unemployment will become even more abundant. That there was much more to be done to bring ill - treated homes through the same bundle, just so that they would also have enough resistance at the time, even if a loss of income is, unfortunately, inevitable to some extent. It must also ensure that the family members do not experience irreparable damage during the storm and that their family life will be minimized. It was also called from various sources, depending on the possibility of a business in a kind of hiccup until the storm broke, and it was certainly an interesting idea and is still. However, while companies may technically be able to fit in if the payments are frozen and charged even temporarily and even if equipment can be placed in storage and executed on machines and closed windows and doors are locked, the people and their homes simply cannot fit in their rooms, Madam President. You see, life is going on in its worst form. Besides fixed commitments, children will continue to grow out of clothing, they will break their glasses, washing machines will break, people will continue to lose their fill of teeth, injury or illness, even serious ones. All of this has its own costs, and even if there is no surprise, which we hope will be the case with as many as possible, families will be forced to cut down on all the extra items that, despite all of them, give some extra color to life. If the bill does not produce more than can be expected, it can still be added to groups that are already confounded in society, disability, poor older citizens, and others who have constantly watched the bioplicity gap between them and other gaps year after year, in poorer and downturns. These groups also need to put their arms around the crisis, even though you are afraid that this government does not consider it to be a priority now, whether in the way it behaves in a swing, and in the last few weeks, all too many rulers, even those listed to the left, have spoken in this discussion and in the last few weeks. Madam President. There was also a great deal of talk about corporate delinquency. It is certainly extremely important, and it can be criticized by governments for waiting until the last minute with an extension of resources, and it can be criticized for having reported cases of disease abuse with excessive notice, while flesh - blooded persons also need to be looked upon. Inevitably, money worries, and lack of awareness, you see, people are adversely affected and even their long - term health. Therefore, larger measures must be taken. It's still possible, you can accept the Union's new proposals. Twelve thousand people are on minimal benefits today, and people who lost their jobs in June are now getting an extension of three months of unemployment, breathing only light at the moment. In December, however, it lands on the edge of a strip and receives 240,000 dollars. by taxes to survive. So there's a chance that many people will become troubled and disappointed this Christmas, Mrs. President. That's why I encourage Congress to put the people in first place and accept the suggestions of the United States. We can decide here today to temporarily increase basic employment benefits and prolong income - related unemployment improvements and ensure that the land's homes will be provided with sufficient evidence of survival.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u30	Mr. President. Here we vote for some practical suggestions, both from the greater part, from the government, as well as from the smaller parts. I would like to encourage those in charge to open their eyes, be brave, look forward, and seriously consider whether they can be of benefit to the public, to support the good changes that come from the smaller parts. We're talking about a temporary increase in basic non-employment. We are talking about supporting the parents of long - suffering and disabled children who need to leave work because their children do not get the necessary day - to - day service because of their disease - care programs. We're talking about extending the part-change process, not just a few steps, but to the next spring, because that's when we think society will only be started. Finally, we suggest that we be brief with students. I would like to encourage the management board to have the courage to support the necessary suggestions because we are to seize as many people as possible in this condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u31	President. I spoke at 2nd. ... aboutthiscase. I think it's important to repeat it here, I'll say it with the bang. The head of the welfare committee, that there are good changes made from the minority part, but this bill, sadly, indicates that the government is missing its place in principle. Here, individuals and families are making it a real challenge to set narrow conditions and systems that are hard to fit. Prescientism is enormous. It is not the government's job to make boxes to squeeze people into, as we see done in this bill. We don't need politicians to make sense. Our mission is to ensure equal opportunities and create soil for people to plant their seeds, grow and thrive on their own terms and at their own paces, but not to have very narrow conditions in important measures that many will find difficult to get into. They should not decide for people and try to direct them into any study that might not be appropriate for them at all. Otherwise, we'll be green on this case because it's a reform.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u32	President. In the media, we will support all suggestions. They all call for an increased sense of responsibility that we so lack now. Unfortunately, I fear that we are in a certain form of fraud, but we in the Middle Ages have called for an increased sense of regret. I also want to take this opportunity to encourage everyone. Councilmen to support the suggestions of smaller things that are very beneficial and will benefit many.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u33	A respectable president. I agree with those who spoke before me. If we accept the suggestions of my section, this bill will be very good, and then we can be proud to accept it and to see that most people get something out of it. Unfortunately, there is a large group who can't get anything out of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u34	Mr. President. Here we vote on a very important job market operation for unemployed workers. We are extending the income - related unemployment improvement period from three months to six months, which is a very important procedure, and increasing unemployment rates. We offer unemployment reformers to study unemployment benefits, which strengthens the person in a job market. We allow the work-related remuneration to correspond to a 13-week work effort, which is very much strengthened by the person and his participation in the labour market. We increase the number of units per semester from 10 units to 12 for the paid and in school, without improvement. The cut-off pathway will be extended to years, which is of utmost importance to those with a contract to continue it. Study is an opportunity, a very important resource, in which people on unemployment may be offered further study and study support. These are tremendous good actions that are important to people. Such action should not be underestimated, and we continue to support the work at hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u35	President. I come up here to declare the support of a council reveries on this matter, but furthermore, I would like to declare the support of the coal responsibly lower in the government stand recommended here to consider with an open mind the many adjustments proposed in this matter. This case, as it is suggested by the greater part, is certainly good, but it can be done better, and we are now constantly getting more and more information, or it is being done. It tells us that while we look into intense winters, especially the group of people who have lost their jobs, these are temporary. It is important to take action now, to provide people with compassion and hope. Therefore, I hope that the suggestions for extending even more in these delinquencys will lead to success.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u36	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here and say that even though I vote with all the changes and regulations of the bill itself, this isn't the bill that Pirantar and I would have proposed. There are many good things in it, and there are benefits. But there are also many things that could have been done better, other things that could have done more and still other things that could have been done differently. There's good reason to think only outside the box when we're trying to deal with these situations. But if we talk about circumstances, they're unusual, even unprecedented. It is appropriate, then, to use the unprecedented method of the greater part to evaluate the suggestions of the smaller parts according to their material rather than their origin. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u37	Mr. President. Unemployment is a major threat to society, and the loss of a job is devastating. That's why I think the thing we're going to vote for is very good because we're extending the income-related period that will catch a very large number of people who have lost their jobs for a pandemic, because we're making sure that jobseekers can create new opportunities by pursuing an education. I know this well after being a minister of education here after a crash how much time it took to be able to offer another opportunity for a fourth thousand educated people to create new opportunities after losing a job. Third, I bear in mind that our major project must be to create new jobs in our community, expand our resources, and make sure that together we can grow out of this crisis. It's our big project, and I think that the actions we're accepting here today will help society do exactly that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u38	President. I thought it was important to come up here. I may have been unduly negative earlier. In many ways, this matter is reformed, and we support it. But I'm just sorry that this is a matter of being very shortsighted and premeditative. I'd like to see us turn up unemployment. I would like to see us improve the flexibility of people in making decisions on their own terms instead of stuffing people in front of a particular box. They are talking about giving out - of - a - job opportunities to study. School students are not being helped to obtain unemployment, which is amazing. But you'll study if the government says it's good for the job market, if you apply on time and then just for one semester, if your employer thinks you're qualified, if the counselor thinks you're going to work directly after graduation. There are so many conditions. It's such a narrow frame. I wondered, " Why don't we give people more freedom by removing all these conditions and impairments so that they can make decisions on their own? ' Because that is what the future work market calls for. [[The president calls.]] The ideas will not originate with us, they will come from the authors of society and their ideas about how the future employment market and society will look, but not if we encourage them in advance certain resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u39	Mr. President. You're absolutely right at the highest. Prime Ministers that we need to attack a huge business campaign and create new opportunities for those who have lost their jobs. You're also absolutely right at the highest. The prime minister that unemployment is the largest threat we face today. At the same time, the Supreme Court is right. A prime minister suggests to extend income - related unemployment rates is an enormous step. However, this too is acknowledging that no one can live on the proud reliefs. So the board of directors here is bound to agree with the highest power. Prime Minister of the United States and accept proposals to raise basic employment benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u40	Mr. President. Here we pay a vote for a change in the law of support due to the pay of an environment. We have decided to support those who need to get infected and are therefore unable to go to work. We decided last spring to support the parents of children who can't go to school or to school but who need care at home, and they need a parent at home. We decided to support it. However, we decided to separate from the parents of long - suffering and disabled children at that point because we wanted the Ministry to take it and try to find out how we can cope with the loss of these parents. Sadly, that did not work out. Here, too, we have the opportunity to allow parents of disabled and long - suffering children to be supported by this arrangement when they cannot do secular work because of their daily service to this group of children. [[The president calls.]] It's an equal case, it's a big human rights issue, and I encourage the management to be courageous and supportive. It's a prince thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u41	A respectable president. It's very easy to vote with this law and this proposal. But I would also like to mention that this is one of the points that I believe clearly that the committee could have agreed if we were not always working under a time pressure. I think that the other part often forgets that sometimes the transfers are there, there's no need for the Ministry to wait, but available, as the case has these modifications. It would be wish to see the greater part vote with this matter. Not at all, but at least I support the change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u42	A respectable president. The support system that covers long - suffering and disabled children is very important to society, but that in nature is not the means to be applied, such as the proposal we now vote for, i.e. changes in these requirements. I agree with the members of the council here that it is important to try to control this matter, and it can be said that when the pandemic starts, we have come to realize a certain weakness in the supporting system. I and the rest of the committee have encouraged the highest levels. The minister and the Ministry to agree with the localities, employers and other stakeholders in order to get their hands on this group. I claim that such support can easily be repeated when men agree on how to solve the problem. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u43	President. I just want to explain why it is necessary to increase the number of units to 22 ECTS units. I know I'm in the wrong place. But I think it's right that people have time to think about it, you can think about it for two or three minutes until we vote on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u44	President. Now I'm at the place I talked about here a few minutes ago. I hope everyone has read the minority opinion presented by 1, i.e. that it is not bound to 10 units to 12 units; it is up to the number of units aimed at taking a student loan of 22 ECTS units. I hope so. Because of having two or three minutes to do so, the members of that hall reexamined their decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u45	A respectable president. I support the modification proposal to increase the ECTS unit and move the maximum to 22 units. But I feel like what I've seen before, that not enough listening to students. I don't think that much of what people are trying to do when they go to school and that they were reflected in the work of the Committee this time. I'm sorry I haven't gone any further. Of course, it is good to be helped. I support both the motion and the law, even if the adjustment is not possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u46	Mr. President. This is where we vote to extend the partial improvement route to June 1. Why? Because it is extremely important to maintain an employment relationship between an employee and a company. Why? Yes, because the workforce is now tight. It narrows down in companies, and it's so important to encourage companies to expand their part-time work, to add to the work that people are doing. It's a lot easier to do that than start recruiting new people when things get better. That's why we want to extend our options. It is economically practical, and I encourage those in charge to show courage and stand with the people of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u47	President. My suggestion turns to the fact that those in a job-related rehabilitation can enter the training program is an opportunity without having a job record of unemployment, i.e. that it is equivalent to having been in a work-related rehabilitation market, which means that people in the full-time rehabilitation period, even 14 to 18 months, before they graduate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u48	Mr. President. The fact is, the suggestions for more part are not mentioned among the people who already have to support themselves on basic non-employment. The people in the most difficult situation are not mentioned at all, and there are thousands of people. This proposal suggests that basic non-employment benefits increase to 95% of minimum wage insurance and will last for one year. I totally refer to my father's house to the claims that if we raise basic employment benefits, more people will choose to stay without employment. I also dismiss the claims that this is too costly. To put the figures in perspective, this increase would cost in 2020 1 billion and 35 million. K. While traveling the so - called trip, it cost 1.5 billion. Next year, this would be less than 5 billion dollars. if it was 12,000. Government officials dropped as if there were no bank taxes at $11 billion. [[The president calls.]] There is no problem, it is not too expensive, but this is to improve the situation of households, at the same time increasing the demand for the economy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I urge you to change your mind, commanders, and stand with the people who are now the worst. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u49	A respectable president. We have not been built to change base systems, we are afraid there are sustained changes. The ice is now, it's temporary. This proposal from the Conspiracy hides even. includes temporarily dealing with the problems people face, and more will be added to a group of unemployed. We need to bring rescues now, not some other time, though well - meaning. People need support and leadership now. But once again, we stand before the government with an old-fashioned approach. Everything that comes from the government stand is said, no matter what group it is, but that is exactly the suggestion to meet the problems of people and businesses now, not later, but now. The government will take all our suggestions, and I think that's a disgrace to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u50	President. Of course we're supposed to raise basic employment benefits. It makes sense, and everything else is just poor economics. All these arguments are self - centered and do not resist the view that this is somehow discouraging in today's society. In the new Covid pandemic studies, we can see that it does not pass the check-in. Systems such as unemployment reform should not be broken to stone. It should be possibly fluctuating with fluctuation, i.e. that we raise and reduce unemployment rates depending on where we are in the economy. If we're in a down cycle, we'll uproot them, if we're up and running, we'll slow them down. These things need to be examined. We need to be open to this, but we have to make sure that people are making a living. We have to. That is how we increase economic growth, making sure that everyone in the country can participate in the economy. It's just bullshit. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u51	Mr. President. I predict that as winter passes by, all of us realize that it will be hard and difficult to talk about here, not just the government's opposition, but the need for the action the government has proposed, and that we have been cut off without thought, apparently. There's a lot in this bill that's worth a lot of money. But in view of what we now see for ourselves, and the best projections we have, they go too far to protect people in the months ahead. It needs to be viewed. This is the difference, to decide now to put people in shelter for the next 12 months, and not to murder them all over the winter. The three suggestions presented here are to extend income - related unemployment improvements, benefits for 12 months, a special unemployment improvement for those on the striped income, and most not least, to triple the cut-off point, in allowing people to be able to afford valuable resources in situations that they have no control over. [[The president calls.]] We owe it to people. [[Take up the front: Hear, hear]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u52	President. Thank you very much. It's an overexploitive move, and I think it's important to come up here and say that I support her whole mind. This development is creating increased flexibility for people in this vast uncertainty period of the changing labour market. We are creating the necessary flexibility to allow people to experiment in new jobs instead of holding hands and doing nothing. We saw how difficult it was this summer. We learned that when the Icelanders were traveling throughout the country, they needed workers all over the country for the summer. It was unpredictable, there was so much uncertainty, and people did not feel confident that they had a solid, loyal framework, they could not come to work when needed. That's exactly the kind of situation we want to prevent in the present economy. We want to create flexibility, and this is a very important step in it. [[The president calls.]] I sincerely hope that people will change their mind and support this, if not, I hope that the government may bring something to change this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u53	A respectable president. These measures are worthwhile, but I have to accept criticism. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, this law has all the characteristics that the government wants to control very many things, which may not be wise to rule ahead of time but that they are rather placed in the hands of self-conceived resources. But as I said unto them, the thing is better than nothing, and therefore I support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u54	President. The words of the day must be foreknowable. All our suggestions in smaller parts of the world are about to be able to provide only for the future. This means that we would prefer to extend the options available instead of using a month before, so people don't know at any time about which step they're supposed to step. This adjustment proposal is about that, i.e. to increase awareness.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-136.u55	Mr. President. I want to come up here at the end and tell me how sorry it is that not one member of the board is afraid to vote for the future. That does not mean running a government fund, business, or home from day to day. All people and companies need to be made aware of something, some tiny sense of security. We're extending resources here so soon that it's as if the government has no faith that we're going to get out of this crisis in the near future. That message is so bad. The government and the government think that we will be let down to help people over their fall. If people don't need this plan, it's because they're back at work. [[The president calls.]] Let's hope we do a lot of work sooner than later. I think it's an incredibly lame and bad message to the community. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
