ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u1	There are: prime minister, marine and agricultural minister, travel, industrial and innovation minister, Environment and Resource Minister and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u2	Mr. President. During a discussion about the financial program last week, I asked the highest level. One minister of the situation of unemployed and ministerial servants answered many very clearly, including the following: what would have been done, there was an increase in 2018 improvement and a prolongation of income-related improvements. Still, at least of them are still at least There are 1,200 people on basic uncooperative donations, and there are no ways to raise them according to financial laws. Where the highest. A minister did not answer my main question a week ago, I now try to simplify my inquiry: What was the most important reason? Prime Minister against raising basic employment benefits in the present situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u3	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asked me last week and asked me to review some of the basic reasons for raising unemployment, which I haven't expressed about here to be a clear argument against, so I actually thought it was a cool question. However, I have said that now it needs to be examined in the overall context of the objects. Hv. A senator rightly noticed that we immediately took on the job of raising unemployment, since they had gone very far from the minimum. They would be about $235,000. If they hadn't been raised by 2018, which was the case back then. They are now about. 290,000 k. What I have stressed, however, is that we speak in this entire context of each insurance bill. Here, many members of Congress have stressed that they cut down insurance or even cut it down. These ideas have come up. I've found it very important, if we discuss the amount of unemployment benefits, that we discuss it in relation to the insurance fees, the priorities we want to focus on what it is going to be, and that we discuss it in the context of our social security benefits. That's when I'm giving a witness to a disability pension and a pension. What is the connection between the amount of unemployment paid and the amount paid? According to this, I have not ruled out that the amount of unemployment will be revised, nor will the amount of public insurance be paid, so I don't really know why. A senator is asking me to offer specific reasons against an increase in unemployment. Perhaps he can explain why he is so excited to hear it in a subsequent inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u4	Mr. President. The evidence is that these increases are not expected in financial or financial programs. V.E.G. The minister of finance has reasoned with me, so I feel we owe an answer from the highest degree. Prime Minister, why is this not done? It is as if the government is not fully aware of the situation in which we live. A multitude is a waste we can't afford, yet the way of the government is to anticipate one percentage in the next year's decrease in unemployment. The United States has presented the responsible route. I hope to the highest. A prime minister takes time to examine it. I'm gonna leave her on this table, and I'd love to get the best response. Minister to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u5	The president asks why. Senators of not touching the same things that are not on the speaker's table.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u6	Mr. President. I'll explode and then take this brochure from your mouth. Senator. Now I haven't read the brochure yet. A senator left behind, but I have listened to what he and his band have said. I read it and understand it so that the emphasis is not far from the focus of the government, i.e. The big project is about how we can overcome unemployment, how we can guarantee that unemployment will not be here permanent social ills, how we can make sure that people do not stick to unemployment for a long time. It may well be that the Conspiracy says, " We want to put more on public investment than the government. ' But I'm not going to be aware of any fundamental differences. It is the obligation of the government to do now, to promote public investment, to use means to promote investment elsewhere in other parts of the system, including privates, as the government has proclaimed that it will do in behalf of green goals. And, of course, to protect the public system so that we are also defending jobs, as well as the vital services provided for the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u7	Mr. President. A debate over the government budget last week was undeniably a part of the Covid situation. There is no need to draw a feather from a huge government project. However, it is difficult to find out how many people are affected by uncertainty, lack of information, and limited means of saving. With that in mind, I know that the highest. In this work, the prime minister wants to be guided by both reasonableness and righteousness, I ask for an extension of unemployment benefits. I ask why those who lost their jobs because of the outbreak immediately in March do not enjoy the savings the government decided at the end of August, i.e. extending income-related unemployment improvements by another three months. The change, called after a considerable period of time, was presented at the end of August, was valid on September 1, and applies only to those who remained during this time period of income - related activities and those that followed. This is a matter related to what has been warned considerably here, which is the risk of taking small steps. I use the word buttock, people can react to it and think it's unfair, but there are small, unremarkable steps that can lead to such a mistake. I want to believe this is a mistake, that it should have been sewn better. Of course it's more expensive, and I realize that the cost of a government fund is highest because of unemployment. But we must also want to spend them at great cost in a reasonable, just way and lack it here. If humans had that ideal at first, this extension could have been reduced, distributed, if that was the only amount of money that is playing. The question, though, is: Should this be fixed?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. It's also a question that came here last week. Then I pointed out that the highest. A social minister and child - care minister would have said that if we think of this as a special option for those who have lost their jobs because of a pandemic crown virus, we would want to consider the extension of the income - related unemployment benefits. It really is about what it is like. A senator made it a subject. Then it was shown in my case to the highest. Social and child - care minister would consider it and how large a population would really be that does not enjoy this increase in income-related unemployment benefits. I expect it to come on the council's table later this month, to be said. Then I'd like to say, because of what. A senator speaks of butts, that I cannot agree with them. We were standing here in March, and I don't remember them. Councilmen who came up then said: " Let's make a three-year plan for a pandemic of crown virus, because we can see that he's going to be on at least here. This year, maybe even two. No, I just don't remember those words and I remember the discussion quite well. I think everybody's down. The members of the council, as well as the one listed here, were very optimistic about our being talking about short - term solutions when this pandemic was due. The situation now is, however, so I think we need to face the fact that this is a longer solution. We are at the same time learning from this virus, as is the changing masking use of a hall that is new here today, and just as we are doing in other areas of society. In this case, I think we must simply be reasonable to one another too. In fact, we are always dealing with new and previously unknown circumstances in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. That's right, you didn't see it in March, but they saw it quite well by the end of August. Nevertheless, the regulations I am referring to were given. I'm glad to hear those words. A prime minister who is not entirely on pair to the answers I received at the highest. Minister of Social Affairs last week. It's good to be examined and I can say, at least In terms of the Council Party, the restoration is that we will take full advantage of the changes to the highest degree. Prime Minister is here to preach. But I'd like to look at something else connected, i.e. Drivers. We know that many companies in Iceland are in seasonal business. The income comes from rising sun and increasing tourist population. This is especially the business that is in trouble right now. And it is well known, even when there is no Covid, that companies collect and pay taxes when they are successful in the seasonal business. But as the situation is now, these companies don't enjoy closing companies because of tax debt. [[The president calls.]] There is a lack of reasonableness in this regard. I ask if there was anything checked, and I wonder if that could possibly be why the demand for close-up grants is far below what was expected. [[The president calls.]] I also ask if there was any way that the company could allow the ban and distribution of the tax debt of an enterprise like after a crash, so that even if they cannot pay off these debts, their companies can remain in pay off savings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u10	Mr. President. Final concentrations were maintained during springtime, with a considerable demand for discontinuation due to preventive measures. Now we have announced that they will be available again and respond to the criticism that appeared in spring, i.e. that this applies only to very small enterprises. Like what? Remembering this, a senator may have helped gymnasiums, for example, with a dozen employees, to obtain a close - up scholarship for three to four employees. This, however, maximises the amount of strength available to each employee. With regard to other operators, the government has announced that we will also take general action against those who have not been shut down but have suffered a certain loss of income. Of course, we've taken some time off this spring, but now we're looking at sponsors so that companies who've lost a certain amount of money can maintain some minimal activity and, of course, need to be put in touch with possible further delays.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u11	A respectable president. In these unprecedented times, no one should worry about whether he can afford food or how to pay bills. All too large are in danger of serious ill health because of lack of sleep, and concern over how to feed your children and pay for their basic needs. Unfortunately, at the same time as sick people ask me, " How am I going to live through the month of 7,000 bucks? '? V.E.G. Social Affairs reports that improving pensions according to the wrong number, secretary of finance according to some odd formula, the index price of consumers, and the pay number and then the pay will be reduced. What does the prime minister say about this? Does it have a third answer to this shameful rise in sick people and older citizens at 3.5% in the coming year? How is that increase calculated? Now it might be nice to get the final calculation on this. And then also: Why on earth is this the only group to take on more tax increases in the form of impairment and no minor impairments? Year after year, tax increases are always put on this group. And how? Yeah, hidden tax increases. And how does a government follow the government in hiding it? Yes, with increased impairments that are nothing more than cover-up taxes. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Will she see to it now that she speaks of defending this group's position that he does not become a victim of a tax increase?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. Of course, that is not to say that this group will be exposed to tax increases, such as the case. A senator expressed it. That's not true. On the contrary, there was a legal tax system change where taxes on the most lucrative groups are reduced. In terms of impairment, I am still quick to answer that the Council agreed to the Supreme Court's proposal. Social Affairs Minister to reduce the decline, in a bill adopted in the summer of 2019. It spent 2.6 billion dollars. to reduce the decline in the micro-energy pension system and this despite the fact that there has been no system modification of the system that I've talked to at least several times. Councilmen how shocking it is that the Allied will not take up a material discussion. This is not a good system, and there is a cross-interchange between the data groups that cause unnecessary impairment. All of us should be eager to accept the suggestions made in the service group. A senator sat in a material discussion at the Generals' scene so that we can protect the money marked in this language in the most reasonable way. Hv. A senator asks for an increase of about 3.6%. It is based on evaluation of the estimated average increases in the total labour market over 2021. I don't think there's any other way to answer that, because there's an explanation in the budget of this 3.6%, because of that. A senator specifically asks that question. I remind you that the increase to this class is about 18 billion during this terms of growth, demographic changes, and special contributions to reduce loss of disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. I just want to show her that it's a simple matter. $25,000. The currency-employment target has been unchanged for three, four years. 109,000 bucks. The pay-of-the-pay target has been unchanged, how long? That should be twice, 200,000 bucks. today, if it had been followed by anything, if only a consumer credit number. Drug, gas, car strengths for disability have not been increased. All of this has the effect that in order to earn a living, a poor person needs to place more money in a common fund. Then another question is, How is it that an artist's wage is 408,000 dollars?? That's cool. The minimum wage is about 350,000. Unemployed pay $300,000. It's $260. It's a donor. ... about86,000Ks. less than minimum wage. Who calculated this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u14	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks quite a few questions about the housemarks. I'd like to remind you that when the General decided for 2016 to reevaluate the social security system in the elderly, all these vacation markets were changed. In fact, the current government decided to raise the pay market in particular because of employment participation. However, such material discussions have not been carried out on the disability issue of the system. I just want to reiterate it again and I don't believe it. A senator will agree with me on this, for at least he has not objected to the fact that it is needed to take this system for material discussion. I quote what I've said that these cross-cutting classes make it possible that the funds we put into this system may not necessarily be as righteous and reasonable as we would like. No one needs to question the will of the social and child - care minister who brings this group to reduce both the decline and make positive changes in the system. [[The president calls.]] But there is a great need for the overall review I've mentioned before.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u15	A respectable president. I wanted to talk to the highest. Justice Minister on legal and moderate when it comes to government and public defences. Now there is an emergency. We're in a public emergency. Then, as with any emergency, it may be justified to compromise human rights. Today, the discussion of these limitations in people's freedoms, in their human rights, has become rather loud in the community, understandable. There's a lot of limitations, there's a lot of damage to the basic human rights of people in today's community. It is only natural, then, that we review the legal measures and the moderate measures that must be taken when making such a decision. I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice because it represents public defenses and because human rights and commitments to human rights are in its hands. I'd like to go with her over a few basic principles that I think the government needs to do better to communicate to the public and to do better than it has been done. We know that in order to impair human rights - they must not all be cut down, e.g. not the right to life, and we must not begin to torture people simply because they are a medical emergency, but they can be limited, e.g. freedom of movement and of meeting freedom as we have been doing - need to be a legitimate goal that we know is at hand. The law needs to be built. But here is the most important teststone for a democratic government that respects human rights: a moderate honor must be respected. I know it's the highest. Minister of Justice knows this rule, but I'd like to ask her: Is the government advising it well enough? Is the average rule being carried out in a decision of civil rights decline in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] Couldn't they be given more information to the public?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this discussion into the Senate Hall, I think it's necessary. We need to take this discussion to heart when we engage in such preventative measures. We're making enormous use of resources and more than we've done in the past. That is why it is important that we discuss the average value. What about our basic human rights? Where can we do better? What is justified in affecting the safety and health of those who have the objective of these preventive measures? I think we can better share the evaluations and discussions we're conducting in the government and with the Federal Police Department and the Center for Disease Control. There's some line we're going to have the guts to talk about. We must not just look at the preventative measures alone and say that they will trickle everything and that the individual's freedoms are not to be discussed. These are fundamental human rights that we must respect, and we want to maintain any limit on those who are justified by the long - term health, safety, and well - being of the people. In this discussion, we too need to ask difficult questions. It is our job to ask difficult questions about how this is working, why we are limiting it, why we are going beyond other decisions. ... inthelastwave. It will be our task, and it will be the task of all of us politicians, for we must never forget it; it has often been said and said again, that the limitations we take to protect people's health and security must never be any worse. That's what we've always been discussing. We have been open about this in the government. How important it is to achieve the moderateness that we have tried to follow!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I just want to review that in order to meet a moderate rule, the government needs to assess the objective of achieving and the effects that the operation will have on other rights. There must be an evaluation of interest on this basis. Now I'm not saying that government interests were wrong, not at all. I support disease prevention, and I fully support this virus and this disaster. I believe, however, that it is important, if we are going to have the public with us and if we are going to respect a democratic baseline, that this information and this interest concern are transmitted to the public in a clear and understandable way so that everyone can discern what interests have taken place. In the last ten seconds, I want to ask the highest. Minister of why the European Convention has not yet met the conditions of the European Convention to inform the European Council's prime secretary in time to deviate from basic human rights in times of need. [[The president calls.]] We haven't announced it to the Council of Europe, and we should. Why hasn't it been done yet?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u18	A respectable president. This is a very important discussion. Senator. Of course, public support is very important in these times. We hope that the public will respect the limitations we put in order to achieve our success, and hopefully our limitations will be reduced to less time if we can assist people. It is vital to have the public with us on this project, and the effect of the action on other rights is, of course, always food done at every decision we make. If we were just going to get the results of decoupling the virus completely, we'd all be at home, nobody would be doing anything. Then it would be the only Dentists that would be allowed to promote themselves in the community. Of course, that is not the case. We are trying to live as normal lives with this virus for a long time, and we need to be able to discuss this matter. It is likely that we are in the middle, perhaps even farther than the middle, or we may not be approaching the center of this epidemic at all. I welcome this discussion and thank you for the question. Of course, we have much international work to do, and we consult ministers abroad, and we are in constant conversation with them, so that I will arrive just at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u19	The president wants this to inform us that a letter received from the highest order has been received. Based on a report from Páll's Hreinsson, the prime minister of discussing the authority of the government for the sake of disease, has to try to include an organized discussion of the report or the discussion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to be here today to direct a inquiry to the highest level. Minister of Justice on the matters of the trustees. It has been noted during the past few days that the significant flow of shelterers is now in the country at the same time that the border is more and less closed to public traffic on the basis of cohesion criteria. Among other things, reports were that 40% of the passengers in one machine wanted international protection, and they drew considerable attention. That's not the question I'm going to point to the highest. Minister. Recently, reports were being made that there was some fault with the leaving of the country by individuals who have been rejected for international protection. In fact, it seems that such individuals tend to get lost. I'd like to put this only in the Norwegian context, but the application for global protection in 2019 for every 24 people in Iceland, 22 in Sweden, eight in Finland, five in Denmark and four in Norway. This means that there were 400% more applications for global protection during 2019 in Iceland than in Denmark and Norway. In this context, I'd like to ask the highest. The minister he considers the explanation to be the fact that the number of international protection applications is proportionately higher in this country than in any other Norwegian country. How does the Minister consider that people in this position, i.e. The applicant for international protection, to a greater extent reaching Iceland than for e.g. To Denmark, Norway, Sweden?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u21	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator for a large percentage of those coming in these days is people looking for international protection. It is a challenge for the system to cope with the many because we want to do well in this system as well as in others. We're trying to cut down people's moments of treatment because efficiency is a lot of humanity, that people get an answer sooner, etc. The number of applications in 2019 was enormous. And we have never given more protection than that year, because our system simply works, so those who need protection, those who fall under the definition of needing protection against persecution and life - threatening conditions, get it on the land. About a question why. A senator about why they come here rather than otherwise, why we're getting more numbers on the hook, of course, we've been trying to figure out why they're here and see how our laws are different in neighboring lands. Perhaps it is best to mention that we have a different system when it comes to providing protection for people in another European country. This year and last year, a large number of trustees came, which seem to be quite larger than in the countries around us, because we are always comparing ourselves with the countries around us, what we can learn, and where we can do better. Of course, there is also a slightly shorter period of treatment in the majority of these cases than in the countries around us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u22	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. The minister's answer, but would like the minister to be more specific about what she believes would explain this large difference, 40% difference, on the number of applications for international protection in Denmark and Norway on the other hand and in Iceland. V.E.G. A minister admitted that there was a significant difference between the groups that come here and those who attended e.g. correspondent in Denmark and Norway What is the main principle of rules, which, if I understand correctly, is the highest. A minister believes that he will explain it to some extent? Is it possible to adjust the rules to what happens to form in Scandinavia in many parts of the world? I mention Denmark, as an example, and what has been done there under the leadership of the Sochial Ecota. Finally, I'd like to ask if it's the highest. A minister has a rhythmic figure of what is estimated total cost in terms of taking shelterers and handling them because of this year's request for international protection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u23	A respectable president. What we've put here before is a bill to try to change our laws on the protection issues in terms of the countries around us, especially the North countries. In general, they lead to negative results, but they take too much time in our system, and we make clear demands that the system responds earlier. We have a humane deadline, less than any other country around us, to grant humanitarian permission if the system fails to answer earlier. If we can change the protection rules, make their payment faster, make them priorities, consider them individually, but no more detailed than that, since they generally lead to negative results, we can also speed up other applications and take better care of everyone in our system. There would be laws on the matter of protection that would be more in harmony with the countries around us. It appears that the largest part of those who have come here, e.g. In 2020, there are already members of the international protection network in other European countries. [[The president calls.]] The total cost in the case of foreigners under the Ministry of Justice is over 4 billion. I don't really have the number on my rhythms about the hospice in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u24	A respectable president. First, I'd like to welcome the announcement made by the president between inquirys that the treatment measures in general would be considered in the light of a report made by Páll Hreinsson for the Ministry of Presidency and produced during the days. Not much later, I'd say, the legislature is taking up the treatment procedures and the laws and grounds that humans have been using so far. My request may, first of all, be that the report that Páll Hreinsson, a judge of the EFTA Court, started to do for the Ministry of Disease Control and the authorities' authority's sources in this epidemic. Páll's conclusion in extreme terms is twofold: It is on the one hand that a full review of the laws of disease needs to be made. It has been announced that in this council there will be a new disease - control bill after a year's convention. I think it may now be a little late in the ass, if I'm to be honest, especially in view of the time men have had to work with this, come to the eighth month. However, Páll's second conclusion is that the disease prevention law has such a fault that revealed its application that it really tested the tolerance of the law. Hence, Páll showed that right away, as he mentioned, improvement must be done on the treatment laws. Now, as we already know in politics, I wanted to ask the highest. The prime minister, whether to begin working on these improvements, and to see if any of these faults are so urgent that he corrects right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's like the highest. I sent a letter to the council last week and suggested that a discussion be made on this report made at the request of my health minister and was submitted last September. There are various indications, including for the implementation of World Health Organization Regulation (WHO), including for term use. One example is that the term "anxiety " does not refer to the disease laws. It uses the word "anxieties, " which, of course, is not very beneficial. So terms need to be harmonized. It is also important to ensure that certain disinfectants, e.g. For example, a loss of freedom to be damaged by contours will be judged. It is also discussed with the public in charge of screening. However, in this series of articles, in the case of people's right to life and health, governments are obliged not only to act in a very decisive way but, in fact, to be their primary obligation according to the report. And when we look at the deterioration of other rights that go with it, it can be said that people's right to life and health dribble other rights. That's the big conclusion in this report I've offered to do a detailed review at the council. I have observed that although Icelanders have gone on less disease prevention programs than most other European countries - less when you see what has been done here, enough to mention a state that has been imposed on curfews, children have been held at home, and more - it has come up with considerable debate, so I really want to have it here, when the council calls.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u26	A respectable president. All of us agree that governments have an obligation to take action to protect the lives and members of the country when necessary, and this report will, of course, be made clear in this report. However, one writer specifically shows that these duties of the government need to be considered in time and bed as well. And as time goes by, and now we are in the eighth month of the pandemic, and science tells us some stories about the disease, I think that the report will be read only as well as the need to consider that the government authorities's authority's authority's authority has to be taken action. I can think of one example that may also have been in the minds of members of Congress this weekend, i.e. References sent to Iceland's Sports Association on the contrary to the established Health Minister's Regulation, recommendations as good and against societies such as Iceland's Athleborg and others, of course, who dare not do anything except follow up. Is this not an example of the need to reevaluate the resources of the disease? [[The president calls.]] And I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister if she knows the legal basis for such a government recommendation to individual companies, partners, or individuals? [[The president calls.]] What's the foundation of the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u27	Mr. President. Just for time. At the spring Summit, in March, the minister of health was reviewing the alcohol - control program at the spring Summit. That work has been rushed so that, according to my information, we can expect a bill on the review of the CDC in the November Council of Management Board, according to my information, so we should even be able to see it distributed here at the General Assembly in December. It's a question of whether or not they can measure it. But then we can. At any rate, members of the council may think that this work has been rushed, and we will be able to complete it here at the council sooner than later. Then there are just suggestions and rules. It's clear that it's not exactly the same thing. On the one hand, we have a health - care minister's regulations, but then there are recommendations from a DG. This is not to make a ban on the land, but we are still urged not to travel beyond the capital, since there are more military measures in this country than in any other country. I think we all understand that there is a difference between the rules and the guidelines, which, of course, are also based on our own responsibility on what we do to follow recommendations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u28	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for bill on deck. 12 A bill to legalize a law of law No. 72/1194, onmarks and information related to energy consumption products. The main subject of the bill is the induction of Council Regulation and Council No. 2017/1369, of July 4th, 2017, of the sentence set for energy marking and deletion of Directive 2010/30. This directive was introduced by a change in the law on markings and information relating to energy consumption products, No. 72/1994. The legislation is a framework that lays the groundwork for further regulation and has a number of regulations on the meaning and information relating to energy use of individual products on the basis of the law. One of the main objectives of the directive proposed to be implemented is to promote energy saving, to better inform consumers about energy consumption and to encourage further energy efficiency of products to be chosen. The consumers should also be informed about the change in product activity prior to the update and have the possibility to refuse an update if it leads to a worse energy efficiency. First, a new and modified scale is defined for the terms of products and systems associated with energy consumption. A new and simpler scale for the terms of the products and systems associated with energy use is set up as well as the information input and management of the central product database. In some products, improved design has led to improved energy efficiency, causing most products to fall into the highest energy categories. In that case, the scale is changed by specifying more strict requirements for each category. Marks with modified scale reflect this change clearly and remain in accordance with other labels in the appearance and structure. Second, the supplier's obligation on registration of energy use information is mandatory in a central database. Residual suppliers and immigrants are responsible for putting information on product in the database if they are importing product into the EEA's internal market. Product information should be recorded in the product database prior to launch. It makes it easier for consumers to find and compare energy - related products. Sellers who need new energy markings or new forms of information can apply for them directly from this source and will be simpler for governments to conduct marketing checks in the light of a better view of market products. In addition, suppliers can also tell when and whether the surveillance authorities will receive these technical documents, but the database should not replace or change the responsibility of the government. These databases are set up to improve information management. The supplier who takes the product first into the inner market arranges this registration so that citizens from Europe will not be able to provide a record where it should already be, to name it. Third, because it has been in the hands of an actuator organisation now known as the House and Manicult. That is why it has been changed. If the bill is legal, it is not expected to have a significant impact on employment, government, or financial impact on the state funds and the scope of observation at Homic and Human Invasion Institutes. V.E.G. President. I suggest that after this discussion, the bill be referred to why. The pro board and the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u29	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for recommending this case, which seems to soon be an improvement. At any rate, we can agree that it is wise to save energy as much as possible. What I would like to ask about, however, is something I haven't found, that I may have missed it when I read the bill. It discusses all kinds of items that traders and suppliers, suppliers, to take in, expand information, and so forth. Group 6 for assessment of effects, these include: to ensure that the products they sell and marketing are in accordance with local regulations, regulations and standards, etc. Later in this chapter, it says that if the bill remains the law, it will not have a significant impact on government funds. I'd like to ask a minister about it if any other cost will follow this bill, the expense that will land on sealers or automobile sales in this case, which they see forced themselves to speculate on the prices, etc. Is there no cost, or is there just no cost to the government? And if it's cost, where does it land?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u30	Mr. President. I asked those same questions when the case was being handled in the Ministry. I don't know any better than there's really no extra cost. If he's wearing any of the crowns, he's so small that no one is making any comments. I know that professional prowess, both trades and services, as well as industrial organizations, have not opposed the bill by reviews that they made in their consultations. Thus, this is not to be a burden on the job. Rather, it is guided by this increased consumer protection, information for consumers to make informed decisions, and demand that people compare products to further energy savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u31	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answers. It is a pleasure to know that a minister called for information about this cost, whether he was there, and where he landed. I also think it's very important that the government's headquarters, the members of the council, the costs, and whether the cost is estimated large, small or no. I think it is important for the committee to consider when she reviews this matter, and to make it clear if there is no expense, so the council clearly sent a message that it has investigated these costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u32	Mr. President. It is quite common for this to occur, as is said here, that the case is not expected to have a significant impact on employment or government. But I wholeheartedly agree with it. A senator that we can clearly do better in this regard, so that it is absolutely clear that it has been investigated, by the European Commission and the same at the council, whether additional costs are provided, whether direct costs or secondary by an increased burden of order. I look forward to talking about a competitive evaluation we've won, or OECD has earned for us, but that's exactly why we're completely aware of this when we're setting competitive inhibitors or an increase in cost. We, who are building elements and regulations, both as legislators and as executives, can clearly make it more clear that it is quite clear when we are adding up the cost, whether direct or indirect, to our job life.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u33	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize business secrets, case No. 13 p.m. 13th The bill is aimed at strengthening the legal protection of business secrets and making it easier for their hands to seek their rights. The bill is also aimed at simplifying the development of business secrets by decommissioning specific administrative control. The bill is in line with the emphasis of a innovation policy for Iceland that Icelandic regulations promote competitiveness and innovation and that corporate rights and pioneers of ideas and commerce will be protected. The bill also includes the introduction to the European Parliament and Council Directive (EU) 2016/943 for the protection of confidential information on expertise and trade or business secrets against illegal development, use and publication. Business secrets play an important role for pioneers in Icelandic employment, and their efficient protection contributes to healthy competition, increased innovation, research and development, and increased potential for operating. Since 1933, there have been laws on the protection of employment as far as legal matters are concerned. The bill is suggested for the first time for the protection of entire business secrets and legal arrangements. If the bill is legalized, the new laws will take place on top of professional secrets, which today are in the 16th chapter. c Business and market surveillance guidelines, No. 57/2005. The bill provides a much clearer guide for business rights than in existing legislation. It is suggested that the concept of a business secret will be used as a full term for all types of classified secrets that have commercial value and that have taken reasonable measures to keep secret. In this case, what is considered an unskilled collection, use, or unveiling of business secrets is specifically laid down. The bill contains a detailed guide for the protection of business secrets, such as bans, lawsuits, damages, etc. Preservation of business secrets is also under official protection during the court hearing. A simple business secret policy is suggested to eliminate the Navigator Control Agency. Business secrets are concerned only in a limited way, and consumers are more desirable to direct their focus primarily on the interests of consumers. In addition, courts have better standards than government supervision to discuss business secrets. Finally, the bill suggests that there will be an increase in the number of penalties due to illegal forces, usage and unveiling of business secrets and a special penalty required for industrial management. The current penalty limits are low and reflect the protection of business secrets in an inadequate way. As a consequence of the rise in criminal boundaries, similar protection boundaries are reached in the general law of law and with the Norwegian legislation on the protection of business secrets. The bill shows that the subject of the bill is intended to be of benefit to clients. Closer even. In particular, innovation enterprises and SMEs with less financial resources to acquire and maintain private rights obtained by the registration of patents. The bill is not expected to bring the cost of government funds, but the bill, previously stated, is expected to be canceled by the consumer Commission. The bill is written at the Ministry of Justice, but it was consulted by the Ministry of Justice on the grounds of laws and judicial regulations and also at the Court of Justice because of the ban on the confidentiality of those involved in handling nonstatutory forces, use and unveiling business secrets. A word of advice was not to be seen to be disagreed with the changes presented here. A consumer room does not protest the removal of administrative control. And just to mention it, economists like the employment organization, industrial organizations and professionals who are familiar with the intellectual rights, this change. A respectable president. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u34	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct measures against unjustification of Internet traffic, etc. The bill includes the introduction to Council Regulation and Council No. 2018/302 of measures to take against the unjust geographic boundaries of Internet traffic and other discrimination based on the nationalities of a customer, where he lives, or where he has confirmed the internal market. The protocol was set up in the EEA Convention by decision of the European Commission No. 311/2019, of December 13, 2019. It is suggested that the Regulation be given legal values in this country using a so-called reference method on the basis of a special law. This ensures the correct and adequate implementation of the Regulation in Icelandic just according to Iceland's national rights commitments and also ensures that no further implementation is carried out than necessary. Thus, the bill does not contain any rules beyond the regulations of the Regulation. The objective of the law and the Regulation is to reduce the range of treatments for reasons resulting from residence, ethnicity, or determination. Such different treatments have been common in English, with the permission of the President, the technical location blocking and the Regulation all the same referred to as the Šgeoblocking, By removing such barriers, trade may be increased across borders within the internal market, thus promoting the internal market of the EEA. The rules include specific rules that apply in certain cases. In the 3rd. The Regulation is that the seller is forbidden to prevent the access of customers to their network for related reasons, as I have previously mentioned, nationalities, habitats, or cliental stability. Thus, traders will not be allowed to direct customers to a second edition of Internet conditions that differ from the Internet conditions that the client first sought access to eviction, language, or other properties for reasons attributable to the nationalities, habitats, or status of his client, unless the customer approved him to do so. In the event that a customer agrees to remain directly available to another segregator, the one he originally sought should remain available to the customer. In Comb 4. The Regulation says that traders are forbidden to set different general conditions for accessing goods or services for reasons related to nationalities, residences, or the established position of customers. This means that the general terms of seals must meet the requirements of Article 4. The article lists three specific situations in which customers are not justified in providing different services. First, when a customer wishes to purchase a seal - trade product that is either delivered in a Member State where the seller waits in its public terms or goes to a place where a customer and buyer meets in a state where the sellers offer such services. Second, when a customer wants to buy electronically supplied services, other than the exchange of authorised materials, e.g. "a cloud hold of data." Third, when a customer wishes to buy a service from a seller, other than an electronic service provided at a designated site in a Member State where the seller is engaged, e.g. a variety of small sale or sale accessories during an event. According to 2 mg. Section 4. rules are stated under 1 mg. not to prevent sellers offering general conditions that vary between areas, including different prices. Thus, the market application of a seller in a designated area may include proposal or discount without necessarily discrimination. At last, 5th. The Regulation requires that the seller be prohibited from setting different conditions regarding payments and payment forms, which are in accordance with the internal labour directive. In the 3rd. The bill shows an important exception from the law's field. It shows that the law does not apply to non-employers who are worthy of extra tax dues because their annual estimates are less than 2 billion. K. every year. The EFTA countries in the EEA agreed with the European Union on this exception when the Regulation was under discussion by the joint EEA committee. The exception includes the much less taxation of the Regulation for small Icelandic segregators, who will be excluded from the duties outlined in the Regulation, and they will otherwise burden them with a considerable amount of burden. The laws apply only in the cases that the Regulation commands, and I have discussed them earlier in my speech. The rules do not affect specific rules that may apply to certain products or services but in situations described regardless of what form of purchases are available. The rules do not include the obligation for Icelandic seals to send goods outside, for example. It involves the obligation to sell, but the buyer will then pick up the product. As a result, this is, of course, a major policy further under conditions on continental Europe. It's been asked in the work of this case if Icelandic alcoholics will be permitted to sell alcohol at the Internet sales in Iceland if the bill is legal. This is not because the Regulation is generally valid regardless of what is bought and the specific requirements for specific products. The effects of this induction in this country may not be greatly exaggerated. This is not likely to be a burden to Icelandic segregators, and during the travel limit, there is little chance of doing so. The purpose of this is that there will be more cross-border transport in general for those selling products in the European Economic Area. It has happened only in the Covid situation, so it can be said that, in part, the purpose of this Regulation has been reached in that situation. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be discussed in the 2nd. ... andwhat. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u35	A respectable president. I'm gonna break the rule, which is that you shouldn't ask questions you don't know the answer to. Well, I'm wondering about the last ones. Minister mentioned. Apparently, they were arranged to meet a small party that would then be burdensome. I'm just wondering if it's the highest. A minister can explain in more detail how this would be burdensome for those people, and particularly what would prevent them from using a streamlined approach that may be available because of the nature of a network tour or because other members will likely take steps to better sell products and services across the Internet and cross-borders without any differences. In short, I am wondering in what way it is too burdensome for little people not to disagree on the basis of places, according to the purpose of the matter. I'm beginning to suspect I'm missing something here, but I'd really appreciate it. A minister helped me to understand that part a little better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u36	V.E.G. President. In fact, this release is made because people are small, and it may cost extra work that doesn't respond to the cost of their well - being. But they can certainly benefit from what is being introduced here. If they don't see what they can do because of how small they are, they just have to be excluded, so they don't have to do it. They weigh it and appreciate it. If they feel that others are taking over a business that they could otherwise get, they would probably choose to let it apply to their work. At any rate, however, they have room to decide not to do so because of their low level of resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u37	A respectable president. First, I want to express support for this matter with the awareness that the discussion has just begun, and more will be discussed. A financial and business committee with members of the Committee, or opinions based on incidents, and, of course, further discussions here at the General Assembly. In a hurry, this bill seems to me to be good. I answered the highest. A minister earlier asked why a release was given for a small party. I must admit that I still don't fully understand the problem of being for little parties, not discrimination on the basis of places. But I may well overlook something there, since I am not an expert on micro enterprises or very small companies. On the other hand, I feel that it is worth just mentioning the nature of the matter, the nature of Internet traffic, and the nature of limiting it, because it has been in fashion to divide markets into a specific compartment, not because it is practical for consumers, but to make use of it, not having access to larger markets, with all the advantages of the larger markets in general. I've often wondered why communities are so tolerant of it. It would be very long here, and it may be that for a particular electronic game or other form of entertainment, a very special system could not be used, with good taste, in other markets. In this arrangement, video games are available in Japan just there. But if you go to the United States or Europe, you have to buy your games again so that they work for the American or European system, as it was called back then. I have not recently encountered this limitation, and I have to admit that I do not know as much about these things as I did before. When it comes to limiting Internet traffic, I have often felt like the authorities in general, and especially in Iceland, not always have my finger in my pulse about what they are doing each time and how they are affected by it. Therefore, I immediately have doubts about the need for this release for a small party. It might as well be, with the above warnings, that there is more to it than there is to it and that it might remove the exception, i.e. if the European Union were that way or the EFTA countries. Still, I also find this a fine reminder that my freedom is good. I find it very often forgotten that freedom is good when it comes to limiting people's Internet travel or transport. People simply want to go from country to country or send something from country to country or buy something across borders and something like that. Freedom is not a requirement, freedom is not a burden, but it is the opposite of a burden, and it is something we should work on. As far as I'm concerned, we are going to try to achieve the simple goal of living in a free world. Sadly, though, this may in some way limit the freedom of others because freedom is sometimes turned when it is on the market. They can serve the interests of individual parties, businesses, even national or member states, and institutions within them. The power to achieve that limitation can be, at least legal, part of the freedom of the same units, or organisation. For example, an enterprise can all equalize on the basis of places, if it is not a law to prevent it. This reduces the size of the market and the ability of people to shop on a larger market, and hence enjoy a larger competitive environment and, in general, greater economy, production and distribution. Also, since Piratar's first campaign for Congress in 2013, we - and indeed, former Councilman Pirate, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, who was a senator for the movement and Civilist in the past - have been complaining that we do not do enough to try to be leading in such areas as this. And as happy as I am, we have, for example, one. I think it's the same time that Iceland lost the train in a way because we were going to be the best at this. It was decided in 2010 that the initiative would take place at that time. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, that we were going to be responsible for free of information and expression, the protection of informers and the like. But because we're so long moving through those lawsuits and maybe taking it for granted, the European Union is over and over before us and the EEA too. I don't like it because it doesn't have to be like that. Iceland could be the front of these litigators. I sincerely believe that what is needed here is simply an ambition. It's no big deal to stand in a pit and say: It would be so nice if Iceland were the source of freedom of expression and information. But to get there, we need to realize that it requires work, which means that we have to change things. It's not just ideas, it's changes, it's arrangements, things like that. Little by little, the drop will break the stone. Authorities, markets, and national relationships and others improve over time so that decisions will not be as bad as ever. That's good. But I wish that we had a higher goal in Iceland that we are going to be the best. You see, for a while, we had a reputation that it would be good to let down a tissue. It would be good to keep data and process data that the authorities often wanted to keep secret or to work with any inconsistency. We made it clear that we were responsible for the world's personal protection, privacy and freedom of information and expression. We had that reputation, but I'm afraid it was undeserved. And now the reputation, as far as I can see, has dwindled very much and, in fact, not much of it has been left but in memory of the people who shared in the struggles and of others who worked very hard in that situation at the time. Part of the reason is that GDPR is observed, i.e. The European Union's personal protection principle, which took a little note at the time. I hate to complain this way, but unfortunately, the main reason is that we agreed on this here at the council as a concierge and then nothing really did to it for far too long. Now there are bills from time to time that are the result of that work, but all too little and too late, way too slow. That's what I think it's gonna happen because we're giving ourselves over to us that we're more than we really are. We feel that we are being very liberal, that we think it's most noble by allowing the other person or allowing other things to happen. To be responsible, however, we need to look ahead to what we think is natural, normal, and ordinary, and look beyond that in order to be excellent, to be best at something, to be best in these seminaries. I couldn't help but come up here just for a little while, but I'll have further comments wait for a few more minutes for a committee to arrive, which I hope will be as soon as possible. I rightly wish that we could show the ambition that we sometimes speak when it comes to being ahead and leading in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u38	V.E.G. President. I'm here to recommend a bill for a change in child law. The bill was submitted to the last legislature, but it did not succeed and is now submitted. While changes in the time of the bill have been made, the bill remains unchanged. The bill suggests that parents who share custody of a child without living together can negotiate the replacement of a child under certain circumstances, but the possibility is not available in current law. It is important to balance the position of the parents who share the custody of a child and decide to bring it up in two households. In recent years, significant changes have been made in the status of children's families and parents. More emphasis is placed on the shared responsibility of parents, and in increasing numbers both parents take an active part in training their children. The primary goal, though, is always to try to contribute to a child's best arrangements. The bill also allows for changes in various other laws to ensure the right effects of the switch to the child, but changes are to create child protection laws, law on law and residence, laws on how to register individuals and the law on income taxes. First, the bill suggests a new legal arrangement to negotiate the change of a child's farm. Today, a baby has a measure of rightfulness and is the legal standing of the parent's law under current laws other than the legal status of the parent's company. The difference is, mainly, that the parent's legal right to make decisions on the child's affairs and also has the right to collect and accept the cohesion and the public support of various kinds that a parent does not have. In the bill, the child's parents in a divided home are expected to share the custody of a child, but their legal standing will be different from the parents who do not share a child's residence but who share custody. The influence of divided farms is primarily that all parents'decisions in divided households will be met. Then a child will be enrolled in a registry with both parents, i.e. Home in one place and residence somewhere else. At the same time, both parents will be able to have the right to support their child's children in the form of child reforms and growth reforms. The goal of the changes proposed in the bill is to promote peace and balance the status of the parents who share custody of a child and decide to raise it together in two households. Both households are not expected to have exactly equal animals, but a child is expected to live equally with his or her parents. Otherwise, it is in the parents'hands to provide the most appropriate arrangements for the child's needs. This is not to say that a child should have reached a certain age to be considered as a switcher. The bill expects certain conditions to be met in order to be considered as stable. The arrangement assumes that parents can always work together on every subject that concerns their child. Thus, a contract to replace a child makes rich demands to parents for cooperation, respect, consideration, and flexibility. Then there is a requirement for nearby homes to ensure convergence in the daily life of a child. It is thought that the interests of the child will always be guided and that, on a case by a case, it will be individually assessed for the best disposition of a child. When changing a child's residence, it is impossible to request confirmation of a contract or the County Decision for a co-ordination or to enjoy the exchange of an insurance agency for support. It will not be possible to request confirmation of a contract or to determine close associations or special expenses, or to ask for a businessman's decision on a foreign mission. The bill assumes that a transitional contract will be subject to the confirmation of the businessman. A source of information should guide parents on conditions that need to be met so that the exchange of supplies can be considered and the right effect of it. Then, according to the bill, if conditions are not met, the businessman should refuse confirmation of a changed home. A client can also cancel a transitional contract to one or both parents' wishes. At the end of a contract, the child's legal rights remain unchanged, unless otherwise agreed. Then a contract to replace the child will be canceled if another parent appeals to a child's custody or legal home. Second, the bill includes general changes in child development regulations and arrangements that will increase parental freedom of deal. The bill suggests that parents'contract concerning divorce, separation, or the decision for custody, or the home of a child, be firmly established. Rather, it is emphasized that parents who do not live together share responsibility for the progress of a child. The bill assumes that the parent with which a child does not live may be able to participate in the child's forwards either by payment of the cost of alimony or by payment of a child. To be involved in the cost of living costs, according to the bill, parents negotiate that a parent as a child will not be involved directly and directly to pay certain expenses regularly, such as daycare or leisure. A law - abiding parent will likely accept the payment of other day - to - day expenses. Parents can also choose that the parent a child does not live with the other parent's pay for a certain amount, which is then defined as a recommendation. In such cases, the legal guardian should use the pressure to cover the cost of the child as well as to participate in the maintenance process. The bill assumes that there is a difference between the two ways you select when collecting the options. In this way, parents can only request confirmation from the businessman if there is a contract on payment and such agreements are strictly planned. There is no way to consult an insurance agency for payment unless it has been negotiated for financial support. On the other hand, if parents negotiate for a change in a child's living arrangements, parents agree on whether or not they pay special expenses or how they themselves share the cost of making the move. Third, the bill implies that child - law clearly states the basis for which parents'contracts of a particular arrangement of custody, residence, and companionship must be established. In current laws, parents are expected to negotiate in a variety of ways, and it is important that parents discern when the right to negotiate the change of children is appropriate. (a) Why is it important to take the lead in legal matters? (b) Why is it important not to compromise the agreements of the law? Legal grounds provide important clues as to how to evaluate the welfare of a child at any given time. A comparison of agreements is also designed to help parents figure out the legal situation and to choose the best way for a child. Thus, in addition to the changing habitats, it is assumed that the general basis for agreements on common custody and equal relations is laid up, but the basis for such agreements is now found in legal data. Finally, the bill includes a new arrangement for conversation in the child's initiative and a clearer set of rights for the child to express himself. The bill suggests that a child can take the initiative that the head of the county offers a total of parents to discuss the arrangement of custody, law home, residence, and companionship. As a result of these changes, a child has the opportunity to express his or her feelings to a parent, and after times, parents can negotiate or demand changes in existing decisions. This new law of child law aims to strengthen the child's right to apply himself to situations likely to have a fundamental impact on his well - being. The goal of the conversation is to guide a child and his parents and to endeavor to contribute to an arrangement that is the best way for a child to take into account his or her child's viewpoint. A certain minimum age of a child is not required, but it is assumed that the child makes his own decision and takes the initiative to make the right choice. Then a businessman needs to assess the needs of a child in different stages of age and development. The bill also suggests adjusting the wording of 33. g. a 43. g. child - law to strengthen the child's right to communicate with terms of reconciliation and the solution to controversies. It is suggested that the bill will be established on January 1, 2022, but the bill suggests that the implementation of the implementation of more laws and regulations under the Ministry of Social Affairs, Health, Education, and Culture Ministry to ensure full right effects in the divided child. I've been waiting a long time, so I have reason to believe that an General and Education Committee, who has been given the case before, can win it quickly and well to allow this duration to be moved any longer. With these changes, we are simply making sure that the system will be better equipped to cope with a variety of family situations. The system should exist for all family patterns and must not be mixed when the decision has been made both sides to share responsibility and upbringing. Parents who choose to bring up their children in a good way in two households should have comparable conditions on the part of the government, not that the system should promote disagreements with their households. The bill is designed to help balance the parent's position in this situation, but it primarily serves the child's interests. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the basic subject of the bill. I suggest that this discussion be followed. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A secretary for the persistence of bringing this bill back forward, so this is an enormously important justice for children and parents. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in two. On one hand, on the terms of the termination of the contract to b-tell 6. g., which reads so, by permission of the President: A parent who feels that the basis for the exchange of a child's farm is smiling may turn to a businessman who confirms the loss of a contract. I find this unnecessary in the balance of power between parents because, in fact, it's authorized that a parent can do this virtually without warning. Corporate therapy is not legal in this fragility but is really selective, if a businessman considers it to be worth the experiment. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, why is it not stated clearly that if a parent feels that the switch is not working, some type of reconciliation should be performed. I'll have to keep the second question till later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I'm saying it's important that we finish this matter at this council. For asking why. There is a candidate in this law and in all the work of the Committee, who examined how this would be best handled, the key to common will, and the common decision made by parents. You can consult the county for advice on the specific issues that may arise in this agreement. On the other hand, the need is always clear. They'll both have to want this arrangement. If we were, for example. with two lawhouses and one's will would crash with another person, in fact, would have to go to court to cut off these options. That's why we have a home and a home to live in. Therefore, one person, if he does not feel responsible for raising a child in two households, can quit this arrangement. Of course, a regular discussion of all other matters involved in bringing the child back, likely from a businessman, needs to be made. This cannot be determined, it's just an option, and no other decision followed. Negotiation of the decision, change of residence, not management or payment, or how to make progress between parties. It will depend on the sides and the parents how they treat them because they have decided to bring up a child in two households, and everything will be replaced as they choose. I still understand why. A senator and I believe this discussion will appear on the Committee how the County Minister can service a party if they have any problem with this strategy, before it is over. But the key premise is absolutely, and it's important, no matter what options we deal with, both parents agree to all aspects of the child's upbringing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u41	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the opposite and agrees deeply that it is absolutely necessary to cooperate fully with the parent in the event of a transition. It is good to see that parents too must agree on what school and what preschool school should go to because they are professionals who have been studying the matter want to mean that if a child is completely involved, they do not pay that it has two different workplaces in their lives, i.e. school or nursery. But there's another thing I want to ask the highest. A minister to whom I also asked about the previous contributions. That's when they answered. Minister because it would enter at the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs and the Supreme Minister. Secretary of health. There are children with disability. Now six months have passed, and then I ask: Has it been discussed at the government scene how to deal with children with disability who need support, who will live in a divided home with both parents? Officials support e.g. aid or service to these or other children who are part of a home that cannot be brought each time. You may be able to move staff to a home, but you wonder, " What does this have to do with aid equipment and other items that are attached, so to speak, in homes, whether it has been discussed in the realm of government? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u42	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. The senator that this is one of the factors to be handled, and that makes it a small bed so that it will be completed 100% before this process takes effect and can be used. How important it is for parents of disabled children to have both the resources available to them when they decide to bring up a disabled child in two households! This applies to aid tools and all the items that cannot be transferred between households. I have high hopes that it will be assured and certain that it will be done only at the time we give the Department of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health to respond to the factors that must be followed by this bill's approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for bringing this case back because I think it's a big progress. The matter was well discussed with the committee, so I hope that we will be able to handle it in no way for so long. The issue had almost reached its final stage, but there was indeed much to discuss on the committee. I'd like to agree with what was being said before, and I'd like to agree with a businessman, for example. The renovation. It was even said that if it was a notification form, it would prove to be a simpler and lower barrier to make such agreements, that it would not be a difficult, difficult way back if anything came up. What I'd like to ask the Minister about is, uh... that the bill assumes that child repairs are equal to half of the calculated child reforms once there is a decrease in income. This takes a little on those with less income and a question as to whether they should not be divided in other ways so that they can be more reasonable. It's one thing. Then I'd like to ask the minister, because I can see that she has not taken their account, about the group that is in conflict, and that is lacking trust, but it is in the same kind of company as all of it. The bill is not well enough, so I wondered if a minister thinks that it should have been clearer than on the bill that not everyone should have been treated for this reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. For example, a senator rejoices that he or she believes it is possible to do so. The General and Education Committee can deliver the bill quickly and effectively, for it gave them more than a few hours at the last council. It's important, because we have to change so many laws, that this can run out as soon as possible so that the duration of the law can be made possible sooner and they can benefit more people sooner. I may first come into the group that is in conflict. A senator asked about. The law makes it very clear that each case is considered individually. The order of a child's life is only possible when both parents agree so that they can share custody of all their affairs, make decisions together, make up for where the child is at school, how to pay, etc. Participants with some of the following factors, about anything that has occurred since they began treatment with a businessman for a change of residence or association, etc, will not be available. I think it's perfectly clear on the bill, but it may be something the committee wants to interlock or repeat in its members. But it is absolutely clear that the exchange of children is not possible when there is a conflict between parents. This is an option for parents who can raise their children in complete agreement, divided between two households. This option is to answer that system is blocking it now, for parents in that position. Perhaps more people think that they will be able to handle this, that this is the answer to their issues. It's not. Hv. A senator then broke down the options. Of course, there are very different factors that can cause a person to stop sharing a living child's farm, and sometimes it is not possible to come back to an agreement, which must be easily broken. [[The president calls.]] At times, however, an individual can be consulted by a businessman.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. However, on the basis of the last review of this case, which is presented here as unchanged, the bill assumes that one parent can request reconciliation, and it violates the purpose of the bill, i.e. Like the highest. The minister was saying that her mind was that both parties would have to agree on that. However, the text does not seem to be clearer than the fact that a businessman did not think he had it completely clear when to refuse to do so. It was then noted that there was a need for regulations on the management of new households but we continue to cooperate with this in a General and Education Committee. I'd like to go back to the question I had in my previous reply to some calculated child support. Everything affects the individual's income if we start to divide things evenly, and that's a question of exporting. They have not been set up, and it is necessary to wonder if the parent's survival has not been better, and so for example, for the child. first divide the infant modifications to half and then reduce the share of each parent in the management of income. The payment process on the bill is at risk causing a worse view of parents and even counteracting the purpose of the bill, i.e. I think that's a lot of equality. It's not exactly like I'd like it to be. It is also an idea if the recovery should be changed depending on how much children are in each parent. On the other hand, it could be very complicated in calculating, afterward, and so on. I think we need to find a way to do this just so that the less - income parent often the mother will not be affected.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u46	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say, so that the discussion is absolutely clear, that another person must be able to break up this one - sided situation. If one side disagrees and cannot cancel the agreement, the alternative is self-destructive. The choice is based on a parent's reconciliation, and if one parent is no longer at peace, we can't have this option available to them. The ship of a child is available only for parents who are in complete agreement, and if otherwise wrong, it is possible to break the options. With regard to child support, it's about time. A senator must be evaluated individually. As far as I can see, parents get 50% of the child repairs, but you can't figure out what's not in a relationship. As a result, the balance and potential of parenthood are individually evaluated. It's very important. This was done with the Ministry of finance. The law-in-law parent was previously given 100% but is now divided by 50% and calculated by the individual parent's income ratio. Parents cannot be connected, as when they were married, if that was the case. You can't figure your parents out, and then you can cut each child's compensation. You must always look at each other's child benefits and his income problems and not calculate them together, since they are now two family members to bring up a child together. But this must be clear, and it is likely to be something. A committee will take a closer look.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u47	Mr. President. Thank you for your patience, it's a long way to get on the platform these days. I am not going to give a long talk in cover 1. of this need, of course, that has been presented repeatedly to the Council, the second greatest. The minister of justice is bringing this urgent and serious justice to the fore. There's a lot of good in this, and I'm glad it's going to happen early at the council, and we'll hope that it will. The Board of Education and the Board of Education manages to complete it, so that the parents of a major number of families are able to negotiate between themselves and their sisters for the way they raise their children, and if they are divorced or divorced, they are to live with them. Therefore, it is extremely unfortunate when the system is designed so that complete equality cannot be fully cooperated. Unfortunately, it is, in fact, here still that law enforcement belongs to one of the parents, but it will be registered in both places. This is likely to be so that one parent will be able to resolve the knot in the event of a disagreement. There is continued to be a conflict of power between those who are always evil. But possibly it's absolutely inevitable, unfortunately. Happily, most parents are in good cooperation. Of course, when there is no good cooperation when there is much conflict, we do not talk about the danger of a child or for a parent of some kind of violence or disrespectful treatment, of course not exchange of buset, because it must be the best cooperation in the majority of cases. I would like to reiterate in this speech to be held in favor that my opinion is absolutely fundamental to the fact that with this bill, it will be guaranteed - and I will challenge those who represent the head of the head. The General and Education Committee to ensure it in the bill with some preliminary rules that will be added to the bill - to the highest level. Secretary of health and the highest. Department of Social Affairs will arrange for the implementation of the law to support children with disability who need it, some kind of supportive tools, or such assistance in their homes, to be granted from the government in both homes. This must be settled when the issue is settled. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. This is the perfect key. It must be ensured that children who need support, children who are disabled and who need relief tools in their homes, such aid tools that they cannot be transferred with the child but that they are somehow attached to the home, receive this support, and are strengthened in both homes. I suggest that there be some kind of preliminary action included in the bill with a change in proposal from the Committee to ensure this. This is the perfect key. In terms of enforcing, and in terms of less income, you assume that in the case of this great bond between parents, it may be possible to ensure that this too will be the case when it comes to these things. But this is also something that could be assigned to the highest level. Minister of child care before the law takes effect. The principle is January 1, 2022, so there is plenty of time to ensure that this will happen. I'm celebrating this bill and I'm going to do everything I can, being not on this committee, so that this council will be decommissioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u48	A respectable president. I'm gonna wish for the highest. The Minister of Justice is happy to have this case brought here before the council, as I did in April when she last delivered it. It is, in fact, tragically, that it has not been completed during the last assembly, but there have been some things that have been done. I see, for example. that there were many reviews about this fine thing. But I sure hope so. A top-of-the-art Board of Education borrows to settle this case now because it's too important. I have no doubt that there are complications in this, like so many other things, as we've been getting into speeches. But I'd like to mention one thing that I've always taken up on related matters - it doesn't need this bill, even though I know it will certainly fix it - but it's how children and parents are registered in a national file. Then I'm talking about a very old and out - of - date variation that is a family number. That means the oldest social security number in that family number receives a letter for children of that family. Thus, it may not necessarily be the parent of the child, the person who may not be taking custody of the child, who receives these letters from health insurance or other government agencies about the child's interests. I have an answer from the highest. Minister of health to the deck. 819, published in January 2019, where it clearly shows that children are actually breaking the personal protection of children by means of this out - of - date arrangement, where most public members, and more than public members, use a national file and seem to have only the opportunity to associate children with family numbers. This is ridiculous. I mention it here because I know that the bill will somehow stop this from happening. It doesn't change the fact, and I know that it's being worked on at the national records, that I think it takes way too long. Based on the national reviews of this bill, we need to spit in when it comes to this computer system. Today, most people are becoming thoroughly acquainted with health care, but if parents do not live together and children are registered in two homes, the parent who does not have a child's legal registration may not enter a health environment and book, for example. sample of Covid, in case of use, that may be what most people are doing today. On the other hand, this could be done by the legal parent as well as by the parent's spouse. This is totally ridiculous. I repeat again and again that I don't know how many times I've recorded it in this field. It must have been changed, and, of course, it should have been changed a few years ago. So I'm going to encourage the highest. Minister of Justice, although the group of paintings I am referring to is at the highest level. To drive that change through, a secretary of transportation, which handles national records. As this matter is important, when it comes to the confusion, it is associated with money. We may have to succeed in establishing this law, the law of children, so that it serves primarily the children's interests, the rights, and the duties of parents. I'd much rather talk about parental obligations than necessarily rights. Parents have the responsibility of caring for their children. But in some way, we would need to be able to deal with our financial situation. Then I think we'll be able to solve a lot of things. And yet that's what goes by those who have to handle these matters, I'm referring to cases that are complicated and sit with a businessman, and it's hard to settle down, there's always money. People never say that, never admit it, but in the end it's often about money. If we somehow manage to take that variable out, when we're dealing with the children and rights of children and the duties of parents, I think we've come very far. I realize that this bill will not address the issue, but fortunately it is that in the vast majority of cases parents can reach a good deal about raising their children, even though their separation ends. It is then important to meet parents in the way suggested in the bill. It is absolutely absurd that we are still somehow dealing with this complex system of matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u49	Mr. President. I wanted to have two discussions about this subject, many of which are good. The objective, of course, is very good and positive, but it is my firm opinion that the procedure, or the setting, that will be developed for this ideologies will have everything to say whether these good goals will be realized. There are two main points to be underneath. On the one hand, we are able to deal with such a bill and such ideologies, guided by the careful care of the child's interests and the fact that there are no built - in incentives in this system that either parent sees his own interests better by being this ideologies against it. I see this matter to them that it is positive, but there are certain practitioners or questions at least that will be resolved. Perhaps I would not go so far as to agree with the evaluations of the speakers mentioned here that the issue is almost complete and has set sail. These changes have been made now since the last time this issue was to treat the change in time, and it has been evaluated for its financial impact. But there was a bit of strong criticism or debate over the character that attracts child development, the income - related child - making process. I heard most of the answers. The minister of justice there, and they are positive. But I can say that on the part of those who gave a review of this bill, that understanding was not so clear. At least it'll take at least to sharpen how to calculate this, e.g. The income - low parent does not lean by going that way. This is a big thing. Of course, the reality of many is that such material things may not make it right to go that way. If the legislation doesn't guarantee this, I think all this ideologies are in danger. In this context, we need to remember that in some cases, not all communication is successful, even though there may be no marked conflict. In this regard, I think, too, it takes to remember that there are no built-in incentives in the bill that can help to prevent parents from going that way. It has to be clear, and we are also aware of the familiarity that can be in such a language, which is that women are still a little less paid than men and many women, at least a large number of women in this situation could imagine this as a reason against such a course. I welcome the answers of the Minister of Justice in this regard. I'm stressing that this must be absolutely clear, with the hopes that we will be able to frame it into the context of the case on the General Commission. I also feel that we need to read that the circumstances of children in this situation differ, and this situation, of course, differs. As we have seen, we need to be confident that children can be assured of the right to have the resources set out in the bill and to look to the children's covenant that we have. He is more than a person's viewpoint; he is allowed to have the desired value. This bill was celebrated by the children's manager at the last assembly, but I refer to the other aspects of the program. I would like to agree with what has been said about this relationship, that they have real opportunities to live in both parents'homes. It was these two points that I took along with me in discussing this matter on a universal committee, on the one hand of income - related child benefits, and on the other hand, the situation of divorce or separation, when this conversation about living between parents takes place, that there is power balance. The role of the game needs to be increased even more so because it is the same as that of parents according to the status of different families. So I'd stick this in, I'd say there's a positive issue here. I can't say that it's all over because it's going to solve two basics; it's about the financial interests that I think can cause people to get scared at this point and then the circumstances of parental instability. But I reiterate that I was satisfied with the answers made by the Minister of Justice in this regard, and I hope that these matters can be resolved and that I can work things out better inside the committee. But in order to finish what I started with, I think that in order for this case to reach its goal, the framework we're building here will have everything to say, and it takes more than a good aim.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u50	A respectable president. I'm glad that this case is back in motion, and I would support it. It's not perfect, though. Like what? The members of the council have said in the following talks and have found some points to be settled, and I have to agree with them. 7. Reykv.. n. I think the matter may not have come as far into our case as could have been expected from previous talks here. I have to start by talking about the treatment, which unfortunately is not isolated. Here the bill comes back, and it's physically unchanged, i.e. The time is different, and the report is something updated, but as far as I can see it, the contents of the articles are exactly the same on the letter, except for the time of value. There were a lot of reviews last time the case was presented. Then you need to ask, " Why is such a matter not presented in view of the changes, just to save the committee and the council time to resolve the situation? ' Similarly, to not be asking the speaker the same questions over and over again, they insist that they send in envelopes over and over and over and toothing on what they have said before, apparently, undisputed or has not been answered by objections at all. One example is a simple suggestion for wording in paragraphs 8 and 13. the bill that says that a child should have the right to express himself according to age and development. The reviewer who last pointed out this was the child's happy spirit. The organization submitted a review of the last council, pointing out the conflict between the wording in paragraphs 8 and 13. The bill and Article 12. The children's covenant, on the other hand. While a child should have the right to express himself when he may develop opinions, he should take into account their feelings according to the child's age and development. It's not exactly what it says in paragraphs 8 and 13. The bill. In fact, the organization points to the same inconsistencies elsewhere in the law. There's no problem fixing this. It wouldn't have been easy to fix it and put the bill in such a way that it doesn't have to make that same comment again. This is not an isolated case, and it is not a physical criticism - indeed, it is a material criticism of the bill, but it does not in itself have anything special on this subject. I just don't like our tendency at the Council to ask the same question all the time, get the same answers, and pretend we don't hear what they're saying. I feel that there's a certain spot on the work here, and I'm afraid it will reduce the confidence of the speaker that we are listening to what they say and react in a way that people in general expect to respond to indications. I think if there was a business -- and I know that the Council isn't, maybe, but people generally expect different companies, whether in companies, public agencies or whatever. But at the Generals, we'll cut things off a little - nothing bit, we'll cut them off completely when a new council meets. We throw out all our affairs and put them back on track. It wouldn't be so bad in itself if we weren't always backing up like this at work. If the job was just going on about In that place where it stopped, well, it wouldn't be that bad. But I find it boring when it comes to matters that are important and are overly important to people that the General, or actually the Ministry, I have to say, don't seem to listen or look at all the way in which it is a normal practice to put the matter down and to let the committee solve it somehow after asking the Commission again. And the reporters say the same thing again. Maybe it's time the committee finishes the case. It's not cool, Mr. Honorable President. I don't like it. I'm really sorry about this. I also need to mention one thing about the great peace that the bill assumes to be a state between parents at the time of exchange. I understand the point very well, and it's important. Children's institutions point out that this is extremely important and that the present system may be much better for a child whose parents are at odds. I understand that. However, I am concerned that as long as the overwhelming peace exists, nothing can really go wrong in the parents'relationship between the oppressed parent and the other parent if the arrangement is broken. You see, it is easy for people to say that they are so happy if they have to lose something that is very important if there is a disagreement. That is how many oppressive relationships exist. I am concerned that this arrangement can create such relationships. To say that, I'm not sure how to solve this. But I think it's important that we keep in mind that people can say they're happy. At times, it is simply because it is afraid of the consequences of expressing differences. This is not necessarily what we want and is not necessarily good for the children but, if that is the case. When we discuss such matters as switching a farm, which has been called in the form of a double lawhouse, - I see if I have a little discussion about it in this brief speech - I generally feel an enormous amount of purpose toward citizens in Icelandic society. I feel that the authorities are overly committed to individuals whose names they are, where they can live, who will be allowed to know where this home is, what this home is, what it is, how it is defined, and how a family pattern is. And of course, that's why we have to legalize this now -- I mean, we have to do it -- that family patterns have changed in Iceland, right after the increase in equality, of course. Then again and again, and not for the first time and probably not the last time, we need to face the arrangement we had previously planned for a box, a set of habits, and how we are accustomed to most people. We make laws and rules that assume that all people are like these more things. Then it's going to change, and then we're going to have a problem requiring legislation like this. These are not reasons against legislation, on the contrary. I just feel that the Generals and the Authorities, and maybe just Icelanders, should put themselves at a lower level in the north, less in what is normal and in making some box, frame, and square around what probably most people agree with. It makes such a boring position for the group that doesn't fit in the box. It doesn't really matter which area of society we speak, a lot of people don't fit in the box. Just name the box and there's a lot of people who don't fit it, whether it's family, sexual orientation, gender, opinions or anything. Human beings are varied. Human beings are crystals. They look different. As siblings, we differ from what we are as a parent, and as a parent, we are different from what we are as coworkers, and so forth. Our systems are generally built to assume that they are some ordinary Icelandic family form, such ordinary Icelanders who live a normal life. And we're gonna set up legislation that's going to frame this. We're going in the near future to discuss here names of people as well, and I'm going to get a little more involved in this. I find it awful to see such a clear attitude that I feel in Icelandic culture, and I've probably always been, or at least for a very long time, when we have to take care of something like this. Clearly, this is not a simple matter that needs to be settled. The choice between two parties to bring up a child on an equal basis is not necessarily a simple subject. I'll figure it out. But through current legislation, there is some way the Icelandic authorities, and perhaps Icelanders, have assumed that the usual family pattern is the normal condition, the normal unity. I just want to make people think about it. It's not good for us to put people in a box so much. It is bad habits that we should have taken off, and we should have done it a hundred years ago. But now, of course, we are forced to do so, for it becomes more and more apparent how diverse people really are and how important it is that we accept and take that fact into account. I must also mention warning words that were given in a review of the case during the last assembly, and with other issues, i.e. how many of our organizations who serve an overemphasicly important role in securing rights, in such matters, cannot handle the project at the appointed time. At the General Assembly, we set up the frameworks and legislation, and we believe that once we've made these laws, we've solved some problem. I hope that's usually the case. But then the reality appears on the floor, from our clients, who then work for these processes and new arrangements. It turns out that the wait time is long. It is a great delay, a great deal of writing, a great deal of trouble to realize that the goals we here are so struggling to legalize. Our responsibility is very rich, and I don't feel that much about it. I feel as if we've only gotten used to the fact that government agencies are normally taking a long time to sort out very important matters. The reviews warn that when a pair of farms are being treated, especially when they are being torn up, it was so important that the results soon come, not e.g. unclear what social rights are or what will be done in child repairs or only in the case of the child's farm. It really matters. This is not just a question of the fact that the city does not have to be in trouble or that it is so boring to sit somewhere and wait. That's not the point, Mr. Honorable President. The point is, this waiting and the way we get used to it is because it takes a long time for government agencies to do things that really affect people's rights and abilities to act in harmony with their will. I mean, it's bad. It is, in my opinion, the responsibility of the government to fit public institutions, such as. Business manager, have sufficient opportunity to carry out his assignments rapidly. Sounds like someone's being suggested. I just want to say it's not. I think that in Icelandic society there are quite extraordinary wastes - and probably in more communities, which may be more pleasant to write than we are here - in keeping people waiting, in uncertainty, and in preventing them from making decisions and doing them as fast as they would like. I think it's extremely important. Sometimes I've wondered if we shouldn't have a special discussion about it here. It would then be proposed as a discussion on the effectiveness of public institutions and such. Laws are constantly being changed in order to improve efficiency, and this is good and blessed. Sometimes, however, it is just a shortcut to avoid having to recognize that sometimes, a respectable president, not always, but sometimes, just need more money in certain institutions so that they can hire the staff needed and prepare for service in such a way that things happen quickly and well. Of course, I am well aware that the institutions themselves are not to blame. Of course, they're just working with what they're given from here. Furthermore, I realize that all or most agencies would probably like to have more between their hands to do their job better. I'm not saying there's no ambition in institutions. I'm saying, I feel that at the Council and in politics somehow there's a certain attitude, i.e. that any demand of institutions for more money to do their job better is some sort of vice or freckle. I don't think so. I think we're supposed to be serious, but we've made the institutions demand to get more money to do their basic service job. This is not quite the best time to call for extra money into it, at least not political. [[The president calls.]] But when it comes to such matters, the need is so rich. It makes me feel that we need to keep this in mind. Now, my time is over, a respectable president. I appreciate your patience, but I'll be right back with another speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u51	V.E.G. President. We're here for a second time for a bill about a change in child law, and that's good. The bill contains many good changes and focus points, e.g. a new authority to negotiate a change of residence, and that's good, and another part of a conversation between the child's initiatives. I think it's a very good part of this, and it shows that we're changing the focus because everything is changing for us. Our ideas about families have changed and changed, and we need to try to match what reality shows us. What I would like to do may be to turn to children whose parents are in two parts of the country. I know this was a conversation at the Committee last assembly, but I guess it didn't make it. It's a group of children who have parents in two parts of the country. Not that all children have parents in the same neighborhood and find it easy to attend school there. True, in many cases this is because most of the people live on the southwest corner, but unfortunately, many do not have the situation, which involves many long trips for their children. Then we come to the end of school. While there is agreement and all right, there must be a side to that which is normal when distance is high, and children may spend longer vacations and around holidays and other holidays but still attend schools in two rural society. Our rural communities are not obliged to accept them, but for the better - quality of the world, I dare say, the children are accepted into school, but in some places, this puts pressure on them, and it is quite large. Not that they don't want to solve it, but it's reversed, and it's a debating material. I hope and suggest that the committee take a look at this point. Then it may not be just a matter of money. This turns to finding solutions and other solutions. But when you get a lot of pressure from an institution other than the one you get paid for your child, you probably need to look at it, I think. Then I could, just like the senator who was in the past, talk about our families and the environment about our children, but I'll keep it waiting for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u52	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the terms of sensuousness, law order, etc., with the aim of strengthening freedom of expression by improving the law against media law. The bill was submitted to the last legislation of legislatures, but it was not granted to the Board of General Education and Education. Is it back in the same form? The Mosaic Law against press conferences includes a prerequisite for the restriction of expression freedom, which must be carried out under the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights. There, however, the limit of freedom of expression and privacy is tested, as well as that kind of ban can block or prevent democratic discussion when language on a subject for the common people is predetermined, such as in the leading election. Such damages will hardly be measured to the extent of a certain amount of money and see what they should demand of compensation. Obviously, the significance of the media is for democratic coverage, and it is therefore urgent that the bans against them be promptly resolved. Thus, the bill contains suggestions designed to strengthen the implementation of the statute and to speed up the situation whenever possible, the rightness of a candidate, and the tolerance of such a model. At the shape of the proposals of the bill, these views have been met without compromising the existing legal treatment for the present case. In this regard, a simple and clear trial for a businessman and a court of law is suggested with Article 1. the bill that a candidate will always be obliged to provide temporary guarantees for possible damage when requested by law against publication. While such a duty may be burdensome to a candidate, it is a rich interest to publish material, as well as a right to be protected by the 73th C.E. expression of freedom of speech. The constitution. At the same time, the importance of an exposé directed at its release is called for. With 2 st. The bill is proposed to be restricted to the county's legal treatment every few days and only provided in exceptional circumstances. It is emphasized that the businessman always speeds up as there is any therapeutic treatment of law order in the light of the democratic interests under which he or she is paying, and therefore suggest that the liberty of the seminars to negotiate will be limited to a considerable degree so that the case will be completed as soon as possible and without unnecessary delay. In order to further improve the treatment of confirmed cases following a court order, Article 3 is proposed. The bill for them to follow XIX. section of the Treaty on private matters, on emergency treatment, as appropriate. Especially, then, is this the chapter that allows judges to have more control over a case than in general and their rules on a shorter lawsuit and an appeal period. Quick treatment of such factors is vital, however, that the first finding to determine whether a ban has been properly laid in the light of the rights protected by 73rd. The constitution. This should be the case in a few weeks instead of a few months. With a section four. The bill is ultimately presented with strict improvements in this type of case, and a judge authorized to judge benefits as a result of damages caused by interference with the publication of the material because of a ban or a request for it. Clearly, loss, e.g. due to lost advertisements or less markets. It is therefore suggested that a judge assess such loss that opinions have failed to prove the amount of the money. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u53	A respectable president. I want to start by celebrating the behavior of this bill. It was time to end, however, that the law had to be changed by an international nation in 2017 when a legal ban was set on the financial discussion of the then prime minister two weeks before election. Now it's getting to the highest. Minister for Congress, which it says will limit the duration of the trial to a few weeks. But if we consider, for example, the reason why I put in the bill for making decisions about the law against the expression from the businessman's hand and moving it over to the courts, the results were over during those two weeks, as it was a good day, and the coverage was not allowed to appear before the election day. And now the courts of the country have ruled, unfortunately, much later than they were to do, that this restriction, this ban might have affected the outcome of the election, and that it would be unacceptable in a democracy. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: No need to be better handled, such as. What I refer to, i.e. The law of the hour's coverage, where there's a direct possibility that there's a discussion on issues that concern the public in the pursuit of elections? It is not acceptable in a democracy that such coverage should not appear before the election day. It's just not acceptable. How does the bill keep it from repeating exactly that story?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. Of course I can't accurately predict the duration of the trial, but we're greatly shortening it with all the deadlines and adjustments proposed here. Clearly, the more interests involved, the more necessary it is that the bill is delivered quickly. It's very clear on the bill, and I think we can handle these matters in a few days. But it's clear that this will always take some time to make sure that everything in the trial is under control. But here it is suggested a much faster treatment period, a much shorter delay, and the best way to go after the committee had crossed over the legislation in the field of expression, media, and information freedom. She made some adjustments. This change is one of them, and I think that this is the best way to answer the call that this is done more quickly with regard to the interests below. And as I believe, deadlines have become short enough that it must be acceptable in terms of privacy and freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u55	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but would like to reiterate that what I thought was so striking with the matter, as it were, that HoldCo versus the hour, was the case by the county, who accepted in an open meeting of administration and monitoring committee that he did not even know the fundamental terms we use to determine whether freedom of expression is justified. In this case, which is in the leading of elections and is an important consideration for the general public: Why was the ban not simply refused, because it was not necessary in a democratic community, because it did not meet a moderate measure, because it was an unjust intervention for freedom of expression and the media freedom of speech? The knowledge of this fundamental rights in a democratic society was simply not intended to go to the county in the capital area. He was hardly familiar with the freedom of expression, and that was true of others at this meeting. Some stormed more because they were so mad at freedom of expression. But I wondered, a respectable president, if it's not right to evaluate - whether it is necessary in a democratic society to set a ban, which may take two days, five days, two weeks. It's a impairment, it's a limit to freedom of expression. It can be unjust, even if the matter may ever be taken to court. But then the damage is done. The government that makes the decision to impose a ban must be prepared to determine whether or not it is justified in doing so, especially in the leading of an election, whether it is temporary or not. Do we not need clearer authority to determine whether a ban on the first administrative level is warranted? And doesn't the businessman in the capital area have to be taught a little?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u56	A respectable president. We take the lead in this bill that we're not just speeding up a court order and promoting quick treatment, we're limiting every hour, giving them only in exceptional circumstances, so when great interests are at stake, this can go very quickly. In addition, I think it's a big change that it's temporary insurance, which is more burdensome then. Of course, bans and media coverage need to be evaluated in a way that is deeply influenced, such as the freedom of expression that we expect. It tests its boundaries with other factors, such as privacy. However, such bans can inhibit or prevent democratic discussions when expressions on a subject that is largely limited to the public are limited. That loss is great, and therefore it must be valued with regard to the freedom of expression and the covenant that we have concluded, with its clear regulations. I think with these changes we're answering that these cases are done a lot faster and there's a lot to do in order to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u57	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this bill. I am somewhat similar to the previous speaker when it comes to the urgency of this sort of situation being handled quickly and definitely. Because I'm so focused, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether it was never possible to accept this task simply from the county and bring it directly into court. The criminal treatment law is in XVII. chapter 6 discuss abnormal court treatments. You wonder if that chapter could not handle just because it is so urgent that they are going very fast. Lawmen dealing with this party, i.e. Such crimes and cases are widely used, as they work fast, and even work together day by day in such situations. So I cannot help but imagine that the exact laws and regulations could deal with this matter so that we do not allow it to slow down because of the slowness that often occurs in the county.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u58	A respectable president. Such a route was not proposed by a committee of reformal legislation in the area of expression, media, and information freedom, which went over this whole group for where we could do better. She suggested a change to this being, which has changed slightly since then but not in the matter. That discussion was possible when the last issue was called at the council, but we follow a similar course that was proposed by this committee. It is important to keep in mind that there will be no slowness in these matters depending on the changes, since this is the time to speed things up as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u59	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The slow correction given here is that if an individual's tolerance objects to a law order by a businessman, then there has been a procedure before that happens. The ban is set, and then legal action is required to be done in a federal court and to wait for some days. Surely, I welcome the efforts of this bill, that it does not have to be subject to the governor at any time to see if hurry treatment will be accepted, but it appears to have come in automatically. However, the route could be cut short, not by the politicians, because I believe that this would delay the matter. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in pursuit of immunity for those who have to put up with the law. Whether it is considered that a person who has to endure a legal ban, which is probably a legal law, is often involved in some kind of publication, that the lawyer, the media, who are now in trouble rather than the other, can apply for such an application.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u60	A respectable president. I believe that with ideas like what? A judge here may need to examine his entire law, not just a ban on the publication of the media. If the treatment of the whole or largely of the legal case was to be changed, it would need to be considered in whole but not just for the details involved in this bill, and would not be taken out of parentheses because there are more types of laws than this and could be spoken of in general. Of course, with the pantheon question, the media can apply for a divorce, but this does not happen automatically. It's not being addressed in this bill, but they can apply for apes like others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u61	A respectable president. We'll discuss here a bill to correct the change in the rightness of the law, the law of the law, and the law of the law of expression. I want, just like I did in answer to the highest. Minister of Justice, celebrate the contributions of this bill. I don't think it's much of a court order, but I don't think it's far enough. I don't feel that this bill is a failure to prevent history from repeating itself and that money-rich parties are able to stop the expression and release materials from the media about the most powerful man in society, two weeks before elections and keep the data secretly past elections and better. I also thought it was strange of the highest. The prime minister, who appointed the committee for the improved protection of freedom of expression, did not put this at the top of his list of priorities. The change in law of law was restored to the priorities of this committee, while some other improvements were certainly important too. But I would have thought that there was an urgent need and that there was great need to prevent such a shame and just as much effort as the democracy, as the ban of the moment, from happening again. Let's see that this woke up, for example. the European Council's attention. We arrived at a reporting list of special sites for freedom of the European Parliament media for this ban because it was just a very serious intervention in free media. And this was a very serious attack on public information rights in the process of elections, that's amazing. I just think it's amazing that this has brought no consequences to the man who faced it and did not even know the freedom of expression, i.e. The businessman in the capital area. Besides, I still don't see how you can get on with your freedom of expression and pretend you don't even recognize freedom of expression when you ask him about this. I think it's amazing. I believe that if this case had been handled correctly at the time, we would not be in the position today to have somehow needed a gold guarantee that there is no legal action on the media two weeks before the election on as big as it was discussed, because in Article 24. Current law says, by permission of the President: ◯... if it is found that there is a major difference in the quality of tolerance in the role of an ceremony and the interests of a candidate for prevention, to be non-communicationary - Š endors have the assurance of the damage the ceremony may undo. I would have said that someone who has read the Constitution's expression code or the European Convention, or who knows when human rights can be limited and when not and how it is done, etc., moderate and the like, that we lawyers that stress human rights, would just not have been approved. But it was accepted, and it means that, especially by the comments made by the businessman, this office is simply not trusted for the freedom of expression, that this office cannot be trusted to determine the limitations of the freedom of expression. It would then take some kind of re-education or simply to remove this authority from the county's hands in the capital area. Now I know that the current county official is about to retire, and he's going to concentrate on the woodforest in the near future. But we don't know who's gonna be the next county member. We do not know how much respect he has for the freedom of expression, and we do not know whether there will be a ban on a multi-center expression on the day before the next election, which can have a decisive effect on voters'position. That bill won't stop you from doing that. If only we had the requirement in Iceland that there be any respect for the court, that it would not be an endless service to social rulers, and that it would not always be the means to make the system serve the interests of the more powerful rather than the rights of individuals, the common citizens to be informed, if we would just respect the court, a respectable president, this 24th would have been. The current law, on quietness, order, and so forth, was enough to prevent as much a disaster as it did. I really hurt to see it, Iceland beating and breaking free expression. This may not be comfortable with the current administrations because of the highest level. Prime Minister is the highest. Secretary of finance now and the story was about him and his financial activities, leading to the 2008 collapse and association with the 2008 bank. Glimbing bank. As a result, in 2020, it is possible that we are now taking care of a case that should have been handled right away in 2017 to ensure that just as incredulous as possible an uncivilized approach to the democratic right of the people to be informed before elections would not happen again. I well remember what it was like when I presented my Senate case following this journey, how it was spoken down, and that there was no special cohesion at the greater part to improve the bill I brought to make sure it would change right away. No, the matter had to be called, such as so often with things that delay into the infinite. And now we have the product. But this product does not guarantee a repeat of history. It's certainly disappointing, a respectable president. But this is a step in the right direction, so I celebrate this bill, and I hope it gets through. I hope that we can make an acceptable improvement, and I really hope, and in real life, the county man of the capital area gets re-education, get training and knowledge in civil rights needed to protect the individual rights, protect the rights of the citizens, the public rights to know for elections, and when the election is not elected. I sincerely hope that there will be enough funds to educate the staff there and the county itself on how to protect basic human rights because there seems to be a lack of resources there. And it doesn't have to be legal. The decision to do better and better not to violate public rights and media rights is to be made whether it was in an election - or not. There will be some consequences and people learn from their mistakes. I'm sorry, but I can't see that it's been happening, Mr. Honorable President, but I certainly hope that's all for the better, hopefully with the next and better government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u62	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that I'm supporting this case, but I agree with it. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdóttir that it doesn't go far enough, and is actually quite long enough for us to go far enough in establishing an absolute legal position in terms of freedom of expression and information. I'm not saying this for fun. I'm just saying it because it's the title of Congress that was approved here at the High Council over ten years ago. It has been called a conquistador of Iceland's supreme legal position on the protection of expression and information freedom. It was approved at the Council of June 16, 2010, as I said it was a decade ago. There are many things in it that are beautiful. A long time later, some of the things that it says are that I'm getting silly, unfortunately, considering how cursed we are about to take the initiative to become the best at freedom of expression. But there's so many things here in Iceland, in politics, that there's a lot more than there is to be with politicians here and there to want something, but when it comes to doing it, something else is always more important, or everything turns out to be a lot more complicated than it looks like it is, or it costs sacrifice on something. Then everything must be wiped off the table and either start over or, more likely, just forget it ever happened. You see, Iceland does not have an absolute legal position on the protection of expression and information freedom. And not just that, but as self - indulgent in freedom of expression and in some areas, we are, in effect, a disgrace. The journalist Erla Hlynsdóttir has, for example. working three cases against the European Court of Human Rights. I understand that some of the legal shortcomings of the afflicted have been fixed, without my immersing myself in the legal principles of their judgments. We permitted blasphemy five years ago, to hurt someone's religious convictions. Then there is another law that I'm not going to tire people out for the millionth time, which has been discussed in these last days. We will do enough to say that we are self - indulgent, and we have legislation here that inhibits freedom of expression, and every alien resident I speak to, asking, "Why is this forbidden? " I'll give the answers. Some people feel that this is very bad and that it has a negative effect and so on, but they find that we are beginning to have that discussion, and that there is already a discussion in most other countries, or whatever it is that has already been done. The nations we compare with are simply beyond our reach. We're submerged on freedom of expression. I'm sorry because the vote I mentioned from 2010 had a lofty goal. Interestingly, though, she was offered up in amazing peace. There were many importers, there were 50 votes with but one senator sat by; in fact, I remind him that he was a deputy at the time, and then perhaps he didn't trust himself to vote because he's just been in the council, or what it is, I don't know it. But anyway, there was a rich convergence on the idea that Iceland created a fundamental legal position for freedom of expression and information. And then, a respectable president? It was Generalis's decision. That's what the Council wanted to do. Then what happens? Unfortunately, in our beloved Iceland, the tradition of expression freedom is very weak, and has always been. But interestingly, most Icelanders, and my experience in particular politicians, believe the tradition of freedom of expression, and the value of this Iceland is particularly strong. Why is that? I think it's because when people think that some idea is a bit crazy, they think it's incredibly noble and a lot to accept, though a little bit of it, it's overrated how long we're too long because the norse, the standard, the zero, the zero point, is so low that everything that's over him feels terrible, when we're trying to be pretty far behind. There's been freedom of expression in Iceland and it's been as long as I can remember. You can mention such issues as Glitni HoldCo at the same time. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir did well in her speech earlier. The case of the journalist Erla Hlynsdóttir is mentioned against the United States, and it can be spoken of blasphemy, and all of this can be spoken of. What always comes up in the discussion is what I'm going to call legalism, she's very rich in Iceland, not just in this category, but in general. It then seems to be that if something is in harmony with the law, the international covenant, and the constitution, it is in order. Even if we use that standard, we will be self - indulgent and willing to stand up to compare with a magnificent speech. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdósdóttir, even though we would just take the letter of the law and the international covenant and compare it with this and that a fine bill as far as possible. A senator suggested a previous presentation. A respectable president. What is also missing in this discussion is ideologies. That's the idea behind freedom of expression, not just the fact that we've agreed to negotiate from abroad or that we've adopted the Constitution from abroad, while I remember it, because the freedom of expression is good. That's a good thing. It is the foundation of democracy, not just so seen and tiny, but completely. And not only that we can provide information about ministers or authorities at once but that we can express ourselves as human beings, that we can talk about how we feel, even if someone else dislikes it, even if someone else offends, even though someone else may feel that it is dangerous. It is important to have that freedom, and it is good to have it free. It's not a sacrifice. I'm sorry, I'm bickering with my friends and associates in Iceland, usually the first thing to consider, when it comes to freedom of expression, is picking out enough and any possible justification to limit it. The discussion almost always goes that way. We still need to make sure that this is not allowed, but we need to make sure that the rest is not to be done. We're not at that place, either legally or ideologies, that we should now be focusing on guarding where language is forbidden. On the contrary. We need to put ourselves together in the face when it comes to freedom of expression, whether it comes from law or from the ideologies on which freedom of expression is based. If we are to comply with the will of the Generals in 2010, we will not just have to step in; we need to go beyond the national states we compare with. Then there's not enough law to say that there's a law to match the Constitution of Iceland. This is not enough for legislation to meet the criteria of an international covenant, such as the European Convention of Human Rights. The only thing that makes us have an absolute legal position on freedom of expression and information is that we really believe in ourselves that it's good for people to be able to communicate things that are against others, which can do harm to others. At this point in the discussion, there is usually an answer that we cannot have complete expression freedom, it must not, we need some limitations -- compare with what I said earlier that it appears to be the end point of an Icelandic expression of freedom that, above all, people must be careful not to say too much. It's number one, two and three. Then we can authorize the other or that expression if we have examined the certainty of it and will not harm anyone, nor will anyone be offended or be hurt. A respectable president. We're very far from authorized. Where we need and should limit freedom of expression, I'm not saying they shouldn't be any, they should be quite clear. It should be fairly clear on what basis we allow ourselves to limit our freedom of expression. It must be, in my opinion, and I have not yet heard reasons against that approach, when language violates the defined rights of others, not the feelings of others, not the opinions of others, but the rights. Rights like privacy. I have provided a bill for banning the distribution of what is known today as graphic sexual abuse, has been called digital sexual abuse, barbarism, and vendettas, and other forms of sexual abuse today. It limits freedom of expression, but for good reason. Spreading such information violates the privacy of another person's private life. That is a legitimate limit to freedom of expression. People have the right to a fair trial in court. In a terrible crime recently reported in Iceland, journalists had called someone who could have informed the suspect that he was a suspect. It's going to endanger someone's right to get fair lawsuits in court. It's normal to limit such things, a respectable president. But that is not what we do when we ban blasphemy. That is not necessarily what we do when the law is set. That prohibition is often given to protect property rights, rights, something like that. I'm not saying that law is always wrong. It cannot be said that it is always wrong to forbid a expression, but it must be based on violation of clear rights. Hatanoids are e.g. Safety breach. People have the right to be safe, the right to avoid violence. Therefore, it is justified to limit threats. It is not easy to restrict freedom of expression to the extent that we need to do in a free democratic society by making it out of the rights we want to defend. There's nothing incredibly complicated, a respectable president. But because of the indifference of Icelandic culture to freedom of expression, we generally do not. We're going to the General Assembly to make a beautiful convergence. We all want to live in that world where things are like this. But I sometimes don't think that this world is actually possible. I don't know exactly where that atheism comes from. I don't know exactly what it is that people fear so much that Iceland will be the best source of expression and information. Finally, I'd like to mention the C- team of the council resolution adopted at the Council of June 16, 2010. It suggests investigating the possibility of establishing the first international prize that would be attributed to Iceland's Icelandic expression freedom of speech. A respectable president. It's kind of this part that makes me get a little silly already. It was beautiful 2010, a victory for freedom of expression in 2010. But now it's not quite that. We are here to react to a situation that is often raised, but somehow we need to take the initiative. They lack the conviction that freedom of expression is really good, ideological, moral, cultural, not just legally as important as law technology. But while this concierge is basically ignored by the long time it has passed since it was accepted, I intend to hold it as the beautiful dream that I do not give up on. I hope the Icelanders don't either.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u63	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in public penalties, with the goal of trusting the right protection of those who are affected by what has been mentioned in the United States. By permission of the president of the English word, this term has been established in the English language, and it seems quite clear to you that you are putting up with another person in a manner that causes fear or anxiety. The siege can even go to such an extent that a person who experiences it experiences a threat and panic that greatly impairs the quality of life. In connection with Iceland's validation of Istanbul contracts, i.e. The European Council's Convention on Prevention and Combining Violence against Women and Home Violence, in 2016, changes in Icelandic penalties were made to ensure that Icelandic legislation meets the terms of the treaty. Then came a special consideration of the 34th paragraph. The Istanbul Convention, which deals with the siege monopoly, required changes in Icelandic legislation. The conclusion was that it did not. It was considered that the law of the Icelandic law was already used in the manner described in this article, with the first consideration of legislation on restraining order and expulsion from home. In any case, the commitments of Iceland under the Istanbul Convention now find that bans on restraining order do not provide sufficient protection to victims of repeated immunitys or persecutions. Is it proper to make a decision in the matter of restraining a restraining order, not punishment, but a arrangement that limits the freedom of the person to whom it is laid? So I propose to the bill that, as has been done in all the other northern countries, Denmark alone, a special law of siege will be established. The legalisation of such a law is in accordance with the objective of the Istanbul Convention and would provide additional rules for restraining restraining order and separation from home. A respectable president. For more details, it is suggested that a new law be added to a general penal law of 232 gr. a The law, which makes it criminal to threaten, observe, associate with, or in other comparable ways, puts on another person if the behavior is repeated and is designed to cause fear or anxiety. The law lists the most common methods used in the siege of isolation, but it is in the nature of which such a list can never be exhaustive. Keep these words in a comparable way to ensure that alternatives to those specifically mentioned and that they are prone to cause fear or anxiety also come under the directive. Then there is no need for the behavior or method used in the case of a siege to include an act of independence. On the other hand, if the bill is legal, conduct could become a punishment when it is repeated and the conditions of the new law in other respects. The law then considers that behavior is designed to cause fear or anxiety. In other words, emphasis is placed on behavior itself, not on the consequences or the experiences of the person to whom the siege is directed. Then the law does not require any relation between doers and victims, such as that they have previously had a close relationship. Thus, a bed of siege can focus on someone who knows well or who knows a complete stranger. Thus, experience has shown that those who have been faced with a period of isolation focus, not only on a certain person, but also on other individuals associated with it, such as family, friends, or associates. Finally, it is suggested with the bill that the siege warrants fines or imprisonments up to four years. A respectable president. I believe with this new arrangement, we take an important step in increasing the justice of those who suffer violence. We accept in a way that may be handled more seriously, with more apparent consequences. Human rights must be viewed as the right to walk about in uncivilized society. With the law, we are overturning the right to have the right to have the right to privacy, as the purpose of a restraining order already is, but a judicial action has shown us that it is important to explain further. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u64	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Promissary of justice. I want to celebrate the contributions of this bill. I think it's a very important thing to do. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on the connection between the arrangement and the restraining order, i.e. how the break-up years are going to get in the system, the ones who face siege, and who press charges against it. Will the procedure in a restraining order start automatically? Are these two laws connected in any way to the system? How, then, will this arrangement be conducted? I'd also like to ask the highest. Minister into a sentence I see in a paper with the bill, that it does not include any expense for the state funds. Now it is a new law in penalties that the police will be charged with and that the citizens will likely need to be aware of. Is there no need to spend any small amount of money in introducing this to the public, in harmonizing with police practice, in establishing some kind of good system around it to ensure that the law will be carried out? We've seen, e.g. Like the highest. A minister himself points out when it comes to restraining bans, that it has not always been efficient enough, the sufferers often experience failure, and that the system is too hovery to react. Is it sufficiently certain that with the sentence of the law, this situation will be fixed, or could it be done by some kind of walking error?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u65	A respectable president. Hv. A senator first asks about the connection between the law and the restraining order. Of course, they can be very close to each other and are actually new together. It is important that a restraining order is an arrangement, not a specific warrant, but a violation of the restraining order is then a penalty. It may not have been useful to deal with what we see fit so well in the siege. We're now putting it out with a higher line and a much clearer source. We see on a court case that often this behavior does not fall under certain legal regulations for violence or threats. The police have found it difficult to find exactly where this and the repeated behavior at home. Of course, each should be evaluated whether a restraining order is required using the device, whether this is used by fractured the restraining device, or how the procedure is being conducted. Of course, all matters are unique and difficult to determine. Of course, the provisions can be used together. And it may just strengthen the support of the restraining order, as we had thought, that there is a clearer warrant for this behavior, which so often leads to the restraining order. About the cost as a matter of course. A senator named them has been adding about 6 billion to the police in recent years. Special funds have increased a researcher in every office that is especially to be viewed for violent studies, including sexual abuse. This has been helpful in trying to speed up the situation. I hope that there will be priorities, of course. We're trying to speed up the whole case. But mostly, the law will make it easier for the police to have a new authority to clearly punish for this behavior. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u66	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I still don't feel quite clear if charges are presented on the grounds of a siege error, whether the person will be advised to have a restraining order or to initiate some kind of application procedure. We know that a criminal case may take some time. Maybe that's what I'm looking for. When it comes to the restraining order itself, which may be necessary in addition to this charge, will anything Šmegatically accept the system? There are two other things I find interesting in the history of the highest. Minister. First, she speaks of those who practice siege monopolitan activities as well as those that are closely related to those who suffer from the siege. I'd like to ask, if the person is on the move once, for example. Mother's procrastination has somebody's own right because it's not repeated, it's part of a bandage? Or does it just fall under this first part? I also wanted to ask about the online side of this, a respectable president. It's about chasing people on the Internet. I wondered, " How is that determined? ' Is there some kind of threshold? I wondered about the decision to make. What does it mean to be a stalker on the Internet or to be a stalker on the Internet? I think it's very positive that it's in there, but I think it's a little fuzzy about exactly what it's going to be. It may just be something to take action. I ask because I think it's important for the lawgiver to discuss it, too. What's over the line, how long, how many times, how extensive can it be on the Internet to cross the line and become part of the penalty and fall under this action?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u67	A respectable president. First of all, charges of siege. It is up to the police to be able to obtain a restraining order, completely independent, without the requirement for the violations of the siege. It is clear that police will always be able to, without a specific wish, to insist on a restraining order for such behavior. Of course, with regard to the Internet it has been discussed, including in the global public field, the importance of covering all manifestations of environmental taxes. It may be listed as being through e - mails, social media, or other places on the Internet to irritate, harass, threaten, or threaten people or otherwise. This may conform to the definition we have here, and therefore the law is somewhat broad. Regardless of how technology will develop and what else will result in the loss of its use in this behaviour, the directive will probably cover it regardless of how the legislation will change in the future or the technological development, etc. The third question was regarding those close to those who are accused of taking care of or who suffer the injury and how often it must be. The behavior alone with a relative may be considered behavior that is designed to instill fear in the other person. But if she is to be classified as a siege of a relative, she needs to be repeated. I hope that it will be clear in that way. We are trying to control these conflicting behaviors by causing fear and fear. This, of course, may involve drawing close to someone who is more fragile.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u68	Mr. President. Here, for the treatment and discussion, we need a case that I expect to be legalized right away during this council. I'm going to let myself speak from my previous experience, first from the chief of the police in the capital area and later from the State Attorney. There it was my experience that the issues, often associated with breakups, that came up from this point of view - i.e. harassment in some form, siege, constant threats that may merely include always contacting, watching, being always around--are having the harder things to do from the point of view of the system, so I put them on my eye. Of course, this is primarily true of wrongdoing, how difficult it is to have. But what makes these matters so special is that when such behavior is being practiced, both parties, for the most part two parties, absolutely what is going on, and what is taking place, what kind of conduct is involved, and what is intended for it. It takes e.g. not to resort to physical violence. You don't have to rush into another person's home because this poses the threat. On the contrary, it is clear from what he will do and what the consequences will be for him or for her. Of course, this is an intolerable situation for the person who is going to suffer it. Sadly, there are long - standing examples of such behavior, perhaps the most gross of cases, of some individuals who have, for example, been individuals. Whether to drive past the women's shelter, which is some way to maintain violence against the insurgents that have fled there because of violence. Such behavior is intended to create insecurity, and to send a signal that the person is expected to be subjected to further harassment or even violence. No one's supposed to suffer. I mentioned earlier because the police, the courts, and the courts are supposed to have good tools to handle in such a way. This bill I think will add to the toolbox of the system, and of course it's fine. There is no simple situation in which to deal with errors. I mention, though, that the classic form of this painting is that a woman will be exposed to it by an ex - spouse. As I'm saying, there's a lot of cases and there's a lot of different exposés. I'm gonna let myself stay in this situation because it can, of course, happen to a woman in this situation whose children are facing the reality of her children. Therefore, my opinion of it would be further covered in a report that, for example, when it is so thought of. to crush, of course, because this includes violence toward the children who live under such circumstances, even though behavior may be directed only to their mother. I mention that I would be able to deal with that point rather than with them as a penalty warrant. The law contains a broad line of punishment, and likely it is already taking such a new arrangement that the Lawgiver may initially give some guidelines for what to look for. Other manifestations that are relatively common, both within the country and abroad - such fragments are, of course, known worldwide - for example. when, for some reason, a completely stranger gets a brain broken down, stalks or stalks him, constantly monitors him, keeps him in touch over and over again. The examples of such behavior are all kinds of people. I believe that it is important to have this special provision, though, of course, certain legal requirements that are to be applied to many of the things involved. But that's right, like the highest. The minister of justice mentioned, that the threshold may be high, and such behavior is often more difficult to measure, so that the principles we have today always apply to it. But by setting specific regulations, we also send an important criminal message about what the Lawgiver's will is and that such behavior should be taken firmly. In terms of the very wording of the law, I agree that the language needs to be so that it can survive technological changes. I see in a report, how the word is spoken and the law is built up, that the list is not complete, for it says that there are other comparable ways to this. I wondered, " Could I have added an expression of the law on a restraining order that would otherwise disrupt peace? ' This, in my opinion, would further emphasize that this does not have to be a mere threat, a behavior that disrupts the peace and privacy of another person. I like the wording in itself, mention following, observing, connecting, and then checking, but I think it might be possible to see if this expression could add something there, and it would also be to emphasize the connection to the restraining order, that the same expression is underneath, to disrupt peace and immunity. I'll just mention it here in the first round. I believe that, of course, the lawgiver should be absolutely clear that it is a punishment to break into someone's private life. This offense is in my mind that someone's private life is being broken down by the methods outlined in the law. Of course, people are not to be treated because when they arrive, for example. home from work, someone always sits in the parking lot looking at it, keeps calling, etc. I think that everyone can connect with the behavior that is there, this may be something that many know only of the culture and movies, but it's a constant and persistent and sometimes a long - term threat, and I think it is very important that the directives clearly confirm that it doesn't really need to be, or literally threatened, to be threatened, that in a way that itself is a threat. To associate repeatedly with someone who asks for it to be stopped is to call in every hour of the day for days, violent behavior that is generally designed to cause fear or anxiety. I'd like to agree with what the report says on the subject, that the law is fallen, or set to trust even more fully in the protection of women and children on the land, and I don't think it can be completely overlooked by the reality that this is a penalty that sets in a certain reality of women. Women who have been exposed to violence in close relationships often experience such offenses after a relationship. That's why I think it matters that we're aware of that. Only with regard to the penalty frame, it has a peak of four years in prison, which emphasizes that the lawgiver considers this a serious offense, and I agree with it. The minimum is a fine, and there is, of course, a point to consider with the handling of the case on the board. I saw that certain North countries have followed the same path. I wondered if it would be more correct to have a prison too, but not a minor fine, in line with the severity of the offense. It seems to me that if that were the case, it would likely be according to a probationary prison that needs to be considered better than the first offense. Here, too, I think it may be kept in mind that the courts in this country have usually begun to judge the lower bounds, so this is a point I feel needs to discuss in the case of the Committee. I haven't really thought of it, but I thought about it. I'm happy about this, and I'm supportive of it. I consider it to be an important criminal case, and in order to strengthen the right protection of those involved. As long as I'm up here, I'd like to agree with the views that were presented earlier on the possibility of the police to deal with these issues and to remind us that we've been here before, discussing a court case period, and reminding us that we've thought about it. Then, at the end, I would like to encourage the Minister of Justice to consider carefully a case she proposed to the last council but was not relieved of the General Commission because the case proved to be a problem. It was a case that would have restricted women's criminal protection for the same kind of behavior as here for treatment. It was a pleasure to make any defamatory of any matter of great importance. It was to eliminate the law of general penalties for misdeeds, making them extremely aggressive, not so that punishment was completely gone, but even. b-and-c-axis 2. Figures 242. gr. and then the law of 234, and, and, and then, twenty-four, and an hundred and twenty-four thousand and twenty-four thousand and twenty-four four hundred and twenty-four hundred and four hundred and twenty-four hundred and twenty-four. c., but the changes would have resulted in the removal of a large part of the section that provides an honest and emancipation of an individual. I mention this in the context of the reference here that these fragments could, of course, happen on the Internet and so be glad that the directive itself is so technical. But all of this needs to be taken into context and if that bill had passed through, such as the case would have been fragile. The costs of such investigation had to be explained and found. That would no longer have been the role of the police. And, of course, it weakens the right protection of individuals for violations of immunity and prejudice that often follow these matters. It would have been taken from police tools and opportunities to investigate the gross, interwoven, women in similar circumstances, and those, so that I would ask the Minister of Justice to have it won better and cleared out of equality values before it was submitted. But I'd like to express my joy with this case, a siege officer, being here, with these warnings I've mentioned right now, and with the hopes that we have a good discussion of the matter within the committee and that we will have to legalize this council immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u69	Mr. President. I welcome the contributions of this bill with all my heart, and the laws they are today do not give us the necessary protection to be proud of. This suggests a change in the law of penalties that anyone who repeats threats, follows, observes, links, or sits in a similar manner with another person, whose actions are designed to cause fear or anxiety, should be put under fines or prisons for up to four years. We have a restraining order, but unfortunately, it has not been enough. We validated the Istanbul Convention and changed the general penal law in 2016, but that has not been enough. I'd kind of like to wonder how often a restraining order is applied in Iceland and how often a victim of such a case is able to persuade a police officer to agree to a restraining order request and how often a police officer would agree to such a court order. How often do violations have to be faced with a statement that accepts a restraining order, agrees with the requirement, but the decision is then reversed to the National Court? And then what? I also refer to my former work as well. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunnuldóttir did this before. When there was no peace, when a person was like a prisoner in his own home, like a prisoner in his workplace, and as a prisoner wherever he went, a man in law often had to be used to get a representative of the police. Most of the time, it was women who were so harassed and virtually exclusively challenged. Being a prisoner in your own life, in your own day - to - day life, is absolutely unbearable because the depravity, even though you can walk the streets, will be complete. The individual's efforts, whether in the case of the police or in those who try to assist the individual, will be totally powerless. Even if there is a restraining order, the system seems to be struggling to react when a restraining order is broken. That's what I'm saying for a trial at the top. Minister of Justice who puts up this good bill. I encourage her to push her people to sleep. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I'd also like to encourage her to examine the system and how it works and to make sure that the system is not responding to repeated threats, chases, poses a person who gets scared and anxious and eventually does not dare to go outside the house or answer the phone. What an unbearable situation that is! There are a few things I would like to discuss that we might want to consider in this context. First, it is the term "undeserved itself " and whether we should enter a special addition to the law on those close to us, as seen in other legal requirements in general penalties. But the concept must, in effect, come back again or at least This is further explained by having a close relationship or having been in close contact with someone who seems to have become a part of the country's judgment. Recently, a court sentence in which girlfriends were not considered to be close because they had not registered their lives. There's something that needs to be examined. I'd also like some publicity from a committee party. It is referred to as a fixed fraction and referred to at 72rd. Penalties. It may be noted that the repeated offenses should affect the level of punishment, such as those in other offenses, but it could also be dealt with by persistent wrongdoers who are followed by threats, who associate themselves with, usually a woman, unfortunately, causing fear or anxiety. This has a special effect on the punishment when someone becomes a repeat offender because we are in a position to judge a person in a lifetime of crime for such an operation into the lives of another person and cause the same terror as there is. I think that's what we're talking about. A top-of-the-art Board of Education should take a special look, too. We need to resist now. We need to show the victims violence of any kind that we take this seriously, and governments take seriously their role in providing violent protection for victims. It's the least I can do. I'm here to celebrate this bill and I want us to do everything we can to support any kind of gap in this relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u70	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change in various laws due to a pandemic crown virus, which suggests that temporary rights of the courts, police and districts will be extended to use telecommunication devices and electronic solutions for the treatment in certain cases to prevent legal damage caused by the spread of Korean virus. The provisional documents established by law No. 32/2020, but they ran out on October 1st, have proved to be well. Information that the Ministry of Justice has acquired from the court has been used by the courts electronic solutions from the law's implementation, including the U.S. for inclusion, for main therapies, and for the extension of custody surgical procedures. The Court's opinion is that without the law, matters had to be delayed to an even greater degree as a result of the spread of the crown virus than they did. It is now known that due to the spread of the virus, SMEs will need to apply electronic solutions to the treatment of the population, with the aim of reducing unnecessary access to the county agencies, and therefore it is considered important to extend their authority. Then there has been an arrangement where police can make a research report through telecommunications equipment and no ill effects were reported. In view of the fact that the temporary clearances approved by law No. 32/2020 has been successful, and because of the strong uncertainty of the spread of Korean virus in Icelandic society, I suggest that it be extended to the end of 2021. At the same time, it is suggested that both criminal and private matters be made clear at telecommunications. Such conduct is already permitted and has been successful, and it seems that it is only a matter of personal interest. Finally, it should be held out that the bill contains a code of authority. They must be used with caution and, if any particular case occurs, that it cannot be achieved by them to ensure that the full rights of the defendants and other participants are not available for their application. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u71	A respectable president. I'm not gonna take this against you very far. I just want to ask the highest. The minister whether she still feels that this extension is not important for the normal duration of therapy because the last time we legalized it was in a significant hurry. There was no much discussion and much convergence that took place, and we set this as a preliminary principle on the matter. But now it's talking about extending these sources, which have limitations, in 2021, which I find a bit long. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister does not agree, however, that there is a natural deadline, that the committee needs sufficient time to think about it, or whether there is any desire to rush this matter through the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u72	A respectable president. Of course, that's why. It is considered to be appreciated, but the situation is that the laws ran out on October 1st. Here's a suggestion that this is going well, but it's temporary. This is not being legalized, which I believe is a measure of the future. We must take advantage of the opportunities we receive from the crown virus in an increased electronic administration that benefits everyone in many areas. I think it's important that the committee calls to them members who have been using this, but they also think it's helpful to do so quickly. This is something that the committee needs to consider, especially in view of its success at all levels and that it is absolutely clear that the rights of the individual to these electronic therapies are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u73	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to fix names. This is a total law designed to replace current human names law in 1996. In effect, the legislation that has been in force for nearly 25 years has come to its own age and is not fully in line with the popular view of society today. So it's time for the overall accounting of the legislature. Preparation for the review of human names began in the Queen of Ólöf Nordal in 2015. The Ministry of Internal Affairs then made it clear to their websites of meditation intended to consult the common people and believed that much more of the people who gave a review of the need for increased individual freedoms to their names. In cooperation with the University of Iceland's Social Sciences, there was an effort to examine people's opinion on changes in human names. The results of the survey revealed that more than 60% of respondents wanted a human name rules to be cleared. At closer inspection, it was 24% who felt that no rules should apply to human names. Others thought that there should be rules, but they had differing opinions on how strict they should be. The law has shown that many people feel that names of people are too strict and that a human committee is tailored too narrow when it comes to registration new names, including because of the requirement that they be in harmony with Icelandic tradition and method of writing. In view of the fact that society's composition has changed greatly from the sentence of existing laws and from the number of foreign citizens living here on land. This means that the recording of foreign names has also increased greatly, but in some cases it has had to be denied on the basis of current laws. It has taken some criticism, since one side is granted permission for the names of foreign citizens, not those of Icelandic citizens. The purpose of the bill presented here is primarily to adapt human names legislation better to prevailing attitudes and conditions in society, but also to simplify human names and significantly increase the freedom to record names. The right to the name and right of parents to employ their child's name should be richer than the right of the State to limit that right. The bill presents extensive changes in human names legislation. This aims to eliminate all the restrictions available today on the registration of personal names and ID names and space permission to change names. So, in particular, the bill contains a minimum law on registration of names, which is one personal name and one name, but it is not expected to limit the number of personal names or names currently to be restricted. The bill makes a separation that when announcing a name, it should be a publicized name for a person's name. A great contribution to the writing of names is also proposed, which will result in the loss of the number of foreign names. spend it even in the motion that there will be no longer a rule that names of their own should be able to accept an Icelandic ownership extension, have adopted Icelandic tradition, and that a name must not violate an Icelandic language system. However, the minimum requirement for a name to be written in the letters of the Icelandic modern alphabet, plus the letters c, q, w, and z, is that a name is in a form of subject and without an article. It is then assumed that a name should not be a single letter or abbreviation, numbers, punctuations, or other symbols. It is continued that a name should not trouble a child. The decision is to protect the interests of minor children, thinking about preventing the names that in general can be considered burdensome or apparently inappropriate as a name. The National Constitution of Iceland shall be, if it is announced of the name of a child who is considered to be a child's concern, determine whether or not to be allowed to register the name. The Agency can consult a child's agent before making a decision. Then it is suggested that the recording of a new family name be canceled. A parental principle will continue to be taught on the land. It is a new law that authority on the use of family names will not be limited to those who bear or have a family name in the current law but will be permitted to adopt a new family name. Will this be done with a request for a national record in a manner that can be called for a change of name. The bill suggests that there will be significant permission to make name changes, but by law today, they are only allowed once unless specifically indicated. It is suggested that children from the age of 15 will be assured of self - determination in the event of a change in their names. In addition, it is endeavoring to ensure better the right of younger children to participate in such a decision, which is in accordance with the UN Convention on Child Rights. It is thus assumed that the age limit for consulting a child on a 12 - year - old changed name is to be determined that a change is dependent on a child's consent has developed to take a stand on her. It is suggested that a human name file be held out in the form it has been held by the Human Name Committee, but instead the National Registry of Iceland retains a list of its personal names, and over new family names that have been approved. Since the registration of names will be far wider than today, the bill will be accepted, it is not expected in the bill that the function will be a human committee, with the possibility of a significant reduction in the number of problems on the registration of names. Instead of referring matters to the Human Name Committee, the National Congress of Iceland can be reported to the Ministry. Finally, it is suggested that the name of a child to Iceland's National Publications will be the sole responsibility of those who take custody of a child, but will no longer become a minister of the National Church and Priests, or presidents of registered religious and principles when a child is named during baptism or special ceremony. To prepare this bill, it included consult Iceland's National Constitution for registration of names. It is suggested that the bill take place on July 1, 2021. It is necessary to provide Iceland's National Registry with room to adapt its activities to changing rules. A respectable president. In the end, I want to remember that if we trust people to raise our children, we must trust them to name. There are a number of names that have not been approved and cases of names that are already allowed. Still, there is still a law that the name does not bother a child. Icelandic human name tradition did not originate with the law being now changing. It will also not be maintained by law; it will be maintained by the will of Icelanders and those living here. The right of an individual to his name is richer than the government's right to limit that right and by this bill, we add freedom to the gift of a name and to the decapitation restrictions that are burdensome to people. That's why I've got a lot of stories about these laws and why they think they're pretty strict, they're a bother to people who can even. not stopped teaching yourself to parents whom they do not contact or hardly call their parents. I believe that with the bill it is a form of interaction that many people can accept, a way between the views of keeping into certain human names about how we want to conduct it, and what the principle is, and a great increase in freedom to choose their own name as well as to change names, change names, and name names. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and suggested that the case be followed by this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u74	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice in advance. I just wanted to come to the top of it. A minister mentioned in his background the criticism that this arrangement had to face, i.e. the current structure, the human name committee, etc. This subject is discussed on page 19. 5 on the bill. I want to know more about that from the highest level. A minister from where this criticism has come, whether it comes from the informed community, and what aspects of it accurately lie. Has this criticism appeared, e.g. magazines, articles, or comments? What is it? Are you being critical of some academic activity? Criticism is a heavy word, and it needs to be reasoned. That's why I would've wanted to know more about this at the highest level. Minister of Justice. I believe, Mr. President, that it is important to protect and preserve the English language. There are rules on spelling and grammar, and there is no reason in my mind to exclude human names in that subject. The spirit of this bill is liberal, it has appeared here, and the highest. In his talk, a minister said that people are trusted to maintain culture and customs that have meaning for them as part of a larger body. But you can't ask the highest. Ministers of each of these do not contradict, i.e. wanting to preserve the Icelandic language and then hide a perfect freedom to spell his name? This is what the Human Name Committee has stressed, and there are, of course, our experts that we are supposed to listen to. If the highest. A minister could answer this question, whether there is no contradiction and also, as I mentioned earlier, whether this criticism of the arrangement comes from the educational community, which we are expected to listen to when it comes to such an important matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u75	A respectable president. Yes, there have been and from the educational community in many places. The doctors of Icelandic science have included: I want to quote the reviews of Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson's son, by permission of the president: ▪ There is no reason to believe that the changes made by the existing bill are a threat to the English language. Foreign names already have a way in, and it has not been demonstrated that they have caused a problem. [...] The available bill is a significant correction and will overcome the discrimination of existing law and is essentially a violation of human rights. Strong rules that apply to Icelandic language but do not harmonize with equality and conflict with a sense of justice can lead to negative views about Icelandic people. The last thing she needs is at this time. This is one of the many comments that came in with expert consultations. There was another one. from a person who has sat on a human name committee for a long time. Let us remember that a committee of human names was set up in 1991. She's not older than that. She did not have an Icelandic tradition or preserve Icelandic language on her own. Far from it. However, criticism has come more widely than from the educational community, and many have adopted these changes and the need for them, and most important, in view of the number of cases that appear to a human committee, perhaps showing them the people's will in other ways. It was also a survey of the U.S. National Institute for Social Science, but especially just interviews with people who can't change their names, parents who may have both been violent. It must be that we want to change such a system and make it better. To the contradiction as the dog. A senator named them did not expect total freedom to spell his name, as per law 3. for the performance of Icelandic and anti-reflecting. I think that's what we're holding on to what we want. [[The president calls.]] It is still a principle to teach yourself to a parent and to spell your name with Icelandic letters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u76	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. Our chief expert in this series is Dr. Guðrún Kvaran, who has studied Icelandic names for over three decades. It is interesting that this bill did not include a search for it. A bill similar to this was presented to the 148th legislature, of which Dr. Guðrún Kvaran, said: (b) What will be considered in the next article? ▪ TV is not part of supporting the Icelandic language, which has been pointed out in more recent weeks and months. Names and their dents are as important as all other Icelandic vocabularys, and the denting system is starting to bounce in the common Icelandic language. This is the warning given by Dr. Guðrún Kvaran, a TV broadcast not long ago and was very much like this bill. To be told, Mr. President, one of our most skilled specialists in this language is at the same time against the experts at the highest degree. Minister of Justice mentioned earlier. On page 18. 6 In the bill, this survey is mentioned at the highest level. Minister came in earlier, from the Social Science Institute. More than 1,400 persons were questioned, and 60% of them wanted to make room for the rules when it comes to human names. As an example of what rules apply to names of people, most people mentioned that names that could become a problem for a child should not be allowed, and I think that all agree on that. The next - to - be calls for rules on Icelandic language practices and names to fall. I believe, Mr. President, that this bill certainly leads to the Icelandic language, and I think everyone who has read the bill will see. You ask: Is this study really being carried out? [[The president calls.]] If so, at the highest. A minister believes that they are to be controlled by polls, the highest. Minister of Justice? [[The president calls.]] Should we be controlled by some surveys and thus change the law from them?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u77	A respectable president. First, I would like to say that I do not agree that these bills are similar when the senator refers to them. The scholar wrote a review of a whole different bill. However, the bills have the same goal, increasing freedom in human names, but they are completely different if they are. A senator would study both the bills. I'd like to know, and that would be the subject of the debate. A member of the council, whether he already believes that it is effective in the English language, with the many foreign names of foreign citizens living here, who have never been more, even though they do not fall in the United States. Then there must be a name in English. It prevents names of strains that are incompatible with Icelandic sound command regulations and this is listed in the bill, e.g. how sound is arranged together, and therefore would be interesting to hear what Guðrún Kvaran had to say about this bill, but it returned, that I think, not the debate of this bill. In contrast, Ármann's brother, Jakobsson's older man, lay down, e.g. against that bill as good as any. A senator chooses to quote instead of the bill discussed here. He says, with President's permission: In view of the many comments received at that time, the TV is an unambiguous improvement from previous primes in a similar way. This allows more advice on names than in previous prime names and is also published in Icelandic with regard to spelling of names, although more liberal than in the current spelling laws are proposed. The bill here is referred to, not to other primes. A senator seems to intend to stick with him. In the setting of the bill, experts in the Icelandic language sought advice, including the U.S.A. is a member of the Aarhus Institute of the Year. Finally, whether or not to write bills by surveys: No, that is not to be done. It's my sincere opinion that this is an improvement for Icelandic society, that there is a need for a change in these rules and laws that will not make people in Icelandic society easier. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not concerned about Icelandic language, and it didn't come into existence with the laws we are now changing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u78	Madam President. We're here to discuss a bill of the highest order. Minister of Justice on names of men. It must be said at the moment that the human law is a child, for, of course, it is the right of parents to choose the name of their children, and at the same time, it should be the right of adults to choose their own name. There's not much people think of themselves as personal as their own. I love my name very much myself, but the current human name laws from a state list of approved personal names are, of course, inhibitors for personal, independent rights of people. I don't think there's anything else to say. There is a limit to the rights of people to control their own lives, and such a weakness needs to be reasoned. I think we must agree that in a modern society, the burden of evidence is on those who want to do what is right, not on those who want to increase people's freedom. Here was a recent agreement on sexual autonomy. The law of a woman's name and a boy's name was taken away from it. That fact came, e.g. To prevent a girl from getting the name Blær, which courts eventually had to state that she should not be forbidden, i.e. that a girl could be called Blær. This led to a decision by courts despite the fact that it was specifically stated in an article by human names that girls were not allowed to have that particular name. The same goes for the name Alex. It is a rich tradition in many Western lands that this name is named by both boys and girls. This has now been changed, but the step has only been taken in half, for the right to name is more extensive and varied, so that the elimination of this connection with sex eliminates that right or eliminates this injustice. The prime minister of justice is similar in appearance to a bill submitted by the 148th and 149th Parliament. True, that bill was taken at a council meeting. That was before my time. I didn't see it, but I took a look at the trial and saw that the case was discussed in the General Committee on a total of 19 meetings, and then it was dropped on June 20, 2019. Someone might want to see them again now very similar to a bill, but now on the part of the government itself. But okay, no matter where good comes from. Sure, it's not exactly the same bill, but it's similar. I would like to refer to a beautiful talk entitled The Greatest. Minister when the case was recommended the first time. She said, with President's permission: THE museums are all kinds of things. They make life varied and enjoyable. I think those words contain truth. Other members of the government were less positive. Minister-in-law, my ass. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son declared that the human tradition suggested to change was cultural value. It would be helpful, but it would still be cultural. However, the Icelandic tradition developed over the centuries without having any law in it, without the practice of a human nickname. I agree with what. Brynjar But I Níelsson with him that it is ours to control how our culture develops. As a nation, we were successful in caring for this tradition of our names, and it was not until about a century ago that men wanted to establish laws to defend tradition. Good tradition and good living. But they also change. They live with us humans, and I don't think it's the way to preserve our culture that they have a government commission about it. This is a matter that may not be more complex, but our taste differs. Do I have a taste for all the names that are making room for? No, I'm kind of conservative in regard to the taste of a title. But do I view it as my or others to decide what names other people choose for their children or to have the final word about it? ' That's what I feel I can't say, and I don't think a committee should have that role. That's not the right of the rest of us. The names are in my mind not merely cultural value but one smell of freedom of expression. We protect freedom of expression, not by banning unfashionable opinions, but by allowing them to do so. Besides, our language is a constant development, and I can't help but see that we simply have to let our rolls develop with the case for a long time and that we have to trust people to do so, even if they fall in ugly and lame names. This has led to the development of the North countries, for example. Once again, they start giving their children names that will end with -son and daughter. It is, in my opinion, a source of joy, and it frames it to see that the limitations we have been considerable and that we are not well supported. The reason behind these restrictions and restrictions is not to lead us to the conclusion that here a committee must be active that tells parents what their children have and may be called. The human name file today has some 4,000 names. Dans also have a record of legal names, but their collection work is ten times greater. I haven't heard that much is being talked about in Denmark fighting for further restrictions on name selection. On the contrary, it has been discussed that it is time to cancel the file. The last time we discussed changes in human names, there was the view that children would be given names that might upset them. I have an understanding of that point of view and, as mentioned earlier, am a rather conservative person. However, we trust parents to make many bigger, more challenging decisions that may or may not be a problem for children. Finally, the name is always a matter of taste. But parents have made decisions about dress, school, leisure, and other matters without being mentioned by the government. These are all important decisions in the lives of a young child whom we trust in parents to make. Of course, even in countries where no restrictions are available in a name, it is rare for parents to be aware of or intent on trying to cause problems in their children by giving them hurtful names, and if this is done, it is likely that more is involved in raising a child than just name giving. The last time this case was for treatment, or similar cases of human names, it was suggested that an hurtful name might be involved in simply entering the child - welfare board, since we have been acting as members of a child - care committee in this way. That's why I hope to propose to the highest degree. Minister of Justice in its bill, of the fact that a national record will be assigned to determine the value of other names, to some extent the concern of these concerns. I'm in favor of being kept in this bill myself. With the bill itself, it's in my mind time. I think we've come to the point where it's a step that just needs to be taken. The reasons are on the other side of this matter. Determination of people's rights in this regard, to their own name, goes very close to a person. For Icelandic society, it takes far more important to name the names they choose than to keep the rules and bans of modern human names. There is no basis for heavy and great limitations. For about a thousand years, the Icelandic nation had full and uncircumcised freedom to name their children the names they chose. And now I think it's time to restore this freedom to our nation. Of course, it's emotional. I understand that, and I think it's only natural that emotions are involved in the issue of human names and the factors such as tradition and customs, but public committees are not living in our culture. That's what people are better off for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u79	Madam President. We're gonna talk about names here, but that's one of the issues that have been controversial, as was traced here. I'm sure it's going to be a great deal of talk to the General and Education Committee. I'd like to say this here, on behalf of the left green, that opinions are extremely divided in the council, by various means. I'm a little conservative myself as soon as I want a choice of freedom in this. Our main comments have been about the Icelandic language and the roll - name tradition. Some had comments because they could adopt a new family name as if it were not tomorrow. Perhaps we have discussed the most important part of the Icelandic language, and then we are also thinking about this role of national records. It may not be totally sliding, but it is part of preserving it. We are fighting the English language at very many fronts, and we have a small language community. We need to make it this way that everywhere we go, since we can get there. V.E.G. Minister here quoted Dr. Jamesson's Jakobsson man, and I'm going to do the same. However, he feels that the relative freedom of anonymity is as great as possible, but he says that it is as important a view that the language to be used in all fields of Icelandic country life, as the law says, is also protected in human names as well as in interpretations of what is considered Icelandic terms does not have the consequences of an Icelandic tradition. Hence, it is important that we add to this law regulations that will more support the English language and the human name tradition. That's what I want to do. Of course, when you're traveling abroad, it's fun for people to notice that we're being taught to our parents, most of us with a father. People find it interesting that we are not taught to our spouse, to whom it belongs. I'd like to go through a few things, e.g. the right to recording family names. The right is limited today, as we know it, and it has been forbidden to adopt a new family name. I feel a little bit open when everyone can actually pick up new family names, i.e. Those who have not worn them before or who may not have inherited them. I understand, however, and I'm not going to reduce that in the light of the changes discussed here, including of sexual self - sufficiency and so on, we are changing certain articles that I believe are reasonable. But I don't quite see the need to record new Icelandic family names, or maybe they don't even have to be. I believe other rules apply to people who move to the country and have their names. I don't mind people holding their last names. But I think it matters how it's done. I don't necessarily think it's normal for a family name to multiply. There are certain rules that stick to what is good. I also listed a national file. I don't know if it's the right person to put the warrant on. Are there any experts in a national record that has fallen to that end, or are we merely considering the understanding that is often good and often good? On the committee of Human Names, we have people who are responsible for the decision of calling names and of them primarily by the laws that are in force today. I'm not convinced that the members of a national record are necessarily the best. It's put to death that a national record can talk to the Children's agent to find out if a name can upset a child or not, but I think that there will be some comments about this and I think we need to discuss this better with the Committee. It's not an old tradition that both parents, Steinunnar og Jónsson, or anything like that, but I think she's all right. Similarly, if there is evidence that the person has little or no contact with blood parents, I would feel that he is a stepparent or a foster parent. Maybe I'm mistaken what it says about 5. Okay, about 8. mg, that in the bill it contains new references to the use of family names not to be attached to those who have or who have a family name in the common law, and that a new family name can be adopted. But it says: So the television project assumes that genealogical names recorded here on the country until the validation of the law No. 37/1991 will be protected from being adopted by non-linked sources with permission to record family names based on new family names. I think it's a little out of the question. But it may be a misunderstanding that needs to work with the committee. I think the second phrase says it means not just about offspring, but all, i.e. Any filenames that are already valid. I think it's very positive what the Bible says in 10. g., that personal names should be available for information and can be checked without charge. I think it's very important. I'm like a lot of conservative people in this, but at the same time, I want to increase people's freedoms to give their child a name. Here was the name Blær, and I can tell that I was refused to give that name to my daughter, but it was decided a few years later that the name could be applied to both genders, as was attributed here. There's a lot of things going on here, but I'm sure we have to look at the Icelandic part of it and I think it's a little far down there. There are many factors that encourage us to change the law, in view of our population and that our freedom is to be as much as possible. But somewhere I feel that the thresholds need to be, and there I feel that the Icelandic case needs a little priority. A respectable president. I'm looking forward to getting this case into a full-scale educational committee where I'm taking my seat again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-12-7.u80	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the contributions of this bill and encourage the highest power. Minister of Justice and what. The General and Education Committee I've joined again, which is a joy because I've missed that committee, to impress on this matter in a hurry and safely throughout the council. I think it was a huge deal for a very large group of people. This was shown in the news at the highest. A minister would be gathering stories about the effectiveness of current law. I have personally read stories that impressed me and have told a very strong story about the importance of having freedom in Iceland. I think it's really amazing how strong custodyism we are and what people choose to call themselves. It's kind of awesome. I can especially think of the story of my friend Eydís Rán and her sister who were present last year at Science, talking about their being just no one's daughters. The title of a great interview was the one I recommend by reading because it clearly shows how negative the present law can have on a person's self - image. There are two women who have had to raise themselves in some way, feel that they are not the daughters of their parents because of years of neglect, and because they have had nothing to do with them for over a decade, do not view these individuals as different from any stranger on the street, not as their parents. However, according to current legislation, it is not an option to change their name so that they are not exposed to a stranger or just someone else. They must not adopt a proper name for themselves, which they do not associate with this stranger, their father. So each day they are reminded that they are legally still attributed to this man who failed, who is no longer associated with them. Why should they have to endure it? Because of it. The members of this hall feel that individuals other than the few chosen ones who have their last names will be allowed to select new names? It's just some people who can have their last names in Iceland, not others. You can't just record any new filenames at all. I don't understand how it can be logical to a moderate thought, to the importance of a title, and to what one is called to a person's self - image. This is something that has been accepted by the European Court of Human Rights. Such an enormous limitation in our lives is not appropriate. I'd like to give you another example, an example of a good friend, a Pier Porta's assistant, and a future senator of Porta's during the absence of time. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, Sara the son of Óskarsson, named Elísa Elisha, the daughter of Þórðardóttir. She has always called herself Sara Óskarsson because she lived in Britain, where names of tradition were not present that led her to use her father's name. She was told when she first sat at the General Assembly that she could not bear the name she has always pronounced, that name, right here in the council hall. She would have to be Elísa Elisha Thordd's Þórðardóttir, not Sara Óskarsson's son, as she has always chosen to call herself. Why it must be like that, too, is a mystery to me. The computer says no, and that is the end of it, it's not just possible, even though it is not difficult for the Aldus computer system to enter Sara Óskarsson rather than the daughter of Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir. For some reason, the human computer said at least No, because of the rule we live in. I don't see any good reasons why it should be like that. I don't see it. But it's taken care of in human names law. If people return home after living abroad, they have to change their name, and they cannot continue to use their parents or their spouse's name. It is mandatory to change it again, even if you like the change and feel that it is fine. However, if you do not have a father's child, it can be attributed to your grandfather, but only if not taught. Finally, I'd like to talk about another parable that might concern myself. Now I'm wondering what to name my future child in February. My child's father is a Polish citizen. He has a very beautiful family name, which I would like for my child to bear. But I can't see from the reading of a human name law that I'm allowed to give that name to my child. I don't see that it must have only that name. I think it's my responsibility to make it my child's middle name, though I want it to be my child's last name. I don't know why it should limit me, but for some reason, I seem limited to teaching my child to my father in the way children are taught their father in the home of their father. And if I want to name my child a Polish name, I must have a single Icelandic name. It must be included in the prenup, otherwise I must not name the child a Polish name, according to current law. Now it seems so fun to mention the child with two names, one in Polish and the other Icelandic. But what if I just didn't want to? Why couldn't I? I keep from understanding why the freedom of parents and children must be limited to bear names that are acceptable to them. I think the height of custody, the excuse, is to prevent people from choosing the names they think are suitable for them or for their child. No, that's not your name. My name is Kvaran, and I'm allowed to decide that others cannot have their last names. There's no logical decision or reason behind this other than me thinks it's to be. Here we stop by family names, there must be no more, and the rest of you, the humble, must accept just being taught to father and mother, no matter how you feel about it. I don't care if you don't like your father or your mother. I don't care if you've always taught yourselves to your grandfather, and you want to continue. No, if you're not a virgin, you can't. This, of course, does not mean anything. It's some national pride and crass and prejudicialism that I'm still trying to accept. It's time to put this nonsense down.
