ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u1	The president considers an agreement that, if necessary, a meeting can last longer today than the Senate dictates. The President will announce that there will be a lunch break from noon. 1 to 2:30, lunch and disinfection break.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u2	Borist has written a letter, dated today, from the head of the Central Party for the change of men in the committees, such as Article 16. Congress. The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson takes Anna Kolbrún's seat of the Year's Árnadóttir as head of the General Information and Education Committee, and Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir will be a substitute on that committee. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u3	To answer, the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs and Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u4	A respectable president. In June we did the impossible. The General agreed with total unanimousity to ensure increased access to the mental - health services and to the laws of our bill in Relation and others to perform psychological services and other clinical treatments for health insurance. Of course, this was a very important recognition of the availability of mental health measures. On the contrary, we showed by action that the council truly has the ambition to think about the future. We allowed ourselves to put our arms around our people, and I gladly admit that I was very proud of that cohesion in here. It is important to ensure future protection and investment and to enable people to seek help financially. It's a big deal, a respectable president, and now in the middle of a pandemic, I'm as concerned with people's well - being. We experience increased isolation, loneliness, violence, uncertainty, and fear of health, the survival of our immediate family. All of this has an impact on the souls of a nation. Add to that are economic worries and unemployment that are very deep. Then we get to see the budget and financial plans for the next year, and they are not directly involved with this Senate's forwardness, on the contrary. A professional health minister earlier in the week said that the Ministry of Health is not a secretary of finance and therefore is not in charge. The lawgiver has sent the Commission a very clear message on priorities in this matter. So I would like to ask: Isn't it certain that the political authorities of St. Katrín's Jakobsdóttir want to support the case all the way, this huge, long, timely case?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u5	A respectable president. I believe that the government has made its will very clear by the fact that the 2020 budget was 540 million particularly marked as mental health. It appears that the sub-i.e. Further funding for mental - health services in the country has not required all the money in the current year. Of course, it plays into the fact that it enters the middle of the year. We assume that much of this budget will still exist next year. The next year also provides 540 million allowances for mental - health issues. Other than this, there is an existing financial program on health care outside hospitals with enormous growth. Health services outside hospitals have about 61 billion per the initial year of the program, which grows to 68 billion. This is a 7 billion - year - old crisis for health care outside the hospital. Thus, the government's financial resources are now being developed that we are working in the budget of financial laws and that we are putting into the topic area an enormous amount of space for the individual emphasis the Ministers have since received a vastly larger amount of space to set aside. As far as I can see, with the tremendous increase in mental - health rates and the existence of health care outside the hospitals in the coming years, there is sufficient room for negotiations with psychologists, for example. But it is one thing to say that such agreements should be made. [[The president calls.]] Another is to determine the scope and the rules that apply. [[The president calls.]] This is simply a test of priorities in the litigation group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u6	A respectable president. It is a matter of extreme predestination. Medical treatments work, and not only at clinics, they work all over the country, even with independent psychiatrists. It makes individuals more likely to become active members of society and members of society. And of course, I would have liked to see the government show more boldness, greater priorities, take better note of the ball that was sent very clearly from this council to the government and take larger steps. I'm going to let myself say that I'm in a sense disappointed by these answers. Minister. I don't know if I'm saying the best. Ministers of news, but groups of individuals who consider themselves right - minded may well allow themselves to think and talk about the welfare and carry it out. If the highest. The minister's only connected to an economic side, I can tell him to provide additional access to the psychological services and support, anywhere in the community, is one of the more forward - minded cases that feature the people's well - being at those times. It's economicly practical, and I pray to the highest. Minister to keep that in mind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u7	A respectable president. I do not know exactly what to say after this planned economic and political lesson. Senator. I was just off the hook. In the five - year financial program, a senator is adding extra donations to health care outside of hospitals about 7 billion per year, i.e. By the past year, the increase is now 7 billion. This is the focus of the government and shows that we are going to expand the provision of health care for the country to do more and to do better. Besides that, we have already set up the budget of this year's budget about half a billion more than a billion additional in a special campaign written in the Constitution, and the ear has been marked with mental health issues. We are specifically adding to the 540 million that survive into the next year as a special temporary additional funding in which mental - health services need increased financial support at this time. I don't need a lesson. It's all in the Senate records, and, of course, the government intends to keep what it has said about these subjects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u8	A respectable president. During the collapse of the bank, a bank - banking city was struck, but homes were left behind and tens of thousands of homes were taken away. The policy now appears to be to be to mowing an urban population for the sake of the virus, leaving home and a very large group of them behind. V.E.G. In this discussion about the budget bill, the secretary of finance said that certain contracts were in force on how to calculate a 3.5% increase in Social Security. The pay session would not be there. Rather, it would be a general raise, and as a result, the pay box would be withdrawn, and then it would be insurance. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of this, because the social and child-friendly minister said that it contains only the insurance policy or the increase in the index price of consumers: how is this calculated? How much money did they put away? To what extent are combined elevations and inflation included in 3.5%? No one seems to have seen this calculation. This seems to be some new way to keep the worst lay for them. There's something amazing going on, because according to a budget bill it's going to be 5.2%, that's what the government sees as a payload and a raise next year. There's got to be some amazing calculation that's gonna put this down to 3.5%. Now I just want to get an explanation from the highest level. Secretary of finance how he calculates this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u9	A respectable president. First, I'm going to say that what happened in 2008 is a very erroneous view of the fact that there was a armory about the banks. It's kind of the other way around. Since the State declared that the banks would not be saved, some 7,000 billion people wrote down the financial system. If banks had been rescued, men would have tried, they would have been granted whatever demands were on the banks. It's good to be clear. The government has recovered all the direct costs of saving the financial system. I'm going to say about this case, which concerns the 69th parr. the laws that are under, that this is an old subject here at the council, and we have returned answers to the council on this subject in response to written inquiry. This is how the laws are interpreted, that the increase must be minimal inflation. But if there are remunerations, in general, rising remunerations in the country, it is higher. Hv. A senator here gives the view that the 69th paragraph should be interpreted. so that the pay box should be included in order to allow for increases in the salary number of the next year. This is not in accordance with the law. That's where the discussion ends.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. He is simply saying that the difference between 3.5% and 5.2% is the pay grade. So this 3.5% experienced the inflation rate, the difference between 5.2% and 1.7%, respectively. Then he also said: Regarding the income tax, it is fundamental that a personal discount has kept its value. I'm asking the highest. Minister: How on earth does he get it out when we're lowering the character discount? He has so far not followed pay or pay raise, let alone the index.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u11	A respectable president. We are not watching the pay card, and we are not wondering what the pay sheet will be when it is proposed to the council on these matters. Only a study of what has been agreed to achieve as a general raise in the coming year has been conducted. I allow myself to refer to the financial office's written comments on this to the council. Hv. A senator also asks about the discount, and we had a place to say a few days ago about it. There I disagreed when I said that the personal discount had been paid. What I meant was the holiday goal. What we've decided to do in the tax changes we're working on right now is to make sure that the payoff target is kept in the stock market. Thus, in the interaction of the lower taxes and the change in personal discounts, we can ensure that the payoff target is insured through the process of change. That's what eventually counts. Here, you need to watch the interaction between a person's discount and the tax percentage at the bottom step. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u12	A respectable president. I want to make the status of the press, especially those in particular, into publicity. Today's at the highest. The secretary of finance to raise a specific amount to which most individuals and businesses are required to pay for the State Radio with an intermediary in the state funds set out at 17,900k. every year at 6:300 p.m. This is what daily uses the nose tax to VOLV. The government budget is expected to include a total of 4,500 million expenses for the state radio. K. In addition to that, there is the increase in the income of the Kingdom broadcast on advertisements and benefits to be mentioned. At the same time, nearly 400 million are recommended to travel to a very special source of information through a controversial sponsoric system. will provide increased official control of the media. While it is, of course, a matter that will probably not be completed in this round of budget and related matters, I would like to ask the highest degree. The secretary of finance will see to it that his attitude is to allow the tax payers to set the limits of their nose tax to provide special access. That would be, for example. each year's tax report can be done, and if we started to form 10% of their tax stocks per year, it would be right about 450 million a year, which is very close to the number of the highest bill. Secretary of education to move to special sources. It would be possible to think that, for example, there. If you can select three media, someone might choose to support the News magazine, some Morning newspaper, some DV, some hour, some of the core, some football.net, etc. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he could see this as a possible and move a way to support the local press in a simple way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u13	A respectable president. It's an interesting idea, but it's not on the government program. I think it alone would raise up many fundamental questions that we first needed to take sides with, you see the question: Should we run a public radio, and how are we going to finance it? It's fine to have that discussion. Seems to me who is involved in the scope of that operation, though I feel that there is a wide agreement that public radios have to play a key role. Similarly, it is not only about the fundamental question of whether to run such a radio but also about how to do it and to finance it. I have thought that there was a switch in the connection that arose. A senator here mentions, which is the contribution of every individual and attorney in Iceland to this business, by the fact that we have stopped collecting the fee in particular. I'm sure there were some pragmatic reasons, but I think this relationship has been lost, which is often important, that people know that there's something they're doing, paying every month, etc. I think we also have a flaw in this arrangement that we now have. If there's an economy here, and there's an increase, for example. Enterprises in the country, the spontaneous growth of contributions to the State News without any logical necessity for it or can be reasoned that there are only 1,000 new companies or 1,000 new organisations on the company record should lead to the development or scope of the work of the Public Radio. I think there's some logic in the arrangement. Afterward, we will need to continue talking about the state of the Kingdom Radio in other respects to the media market, and I think advertising is a major factor that we need to take in further discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. To open up this conversation and discussion beyond what has already been done, the minister of finance gives a fine answer, declaring his pleasure in his will. Of course, there are many ways to support the national media, and one of them would be, for example. to eliminate the worthy tax from subscriptions, to give one example. The employee's insurance fees and so on could be dealt with. But only with regard to the highest response. Of course, a minister has the situation, so with the current income of a nasal tax and then ads and benefits, we'll see that the State Radio has a provision somewhere close to 6,000 million, seems to me, next year. Of course, such talk dissuades from any reasonable competitive attitude, so to speak, to the private media that are fighting on this market. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, if there's a point of view here to run public radio in any way, whether it is possible to reduce it to some extent from what we watch today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u15	A respectable president. Yes, I don't think the State Radio is having any criticism about the scope of the operation. In effect, the Kingdom News is a monoclonal, large tree that has its roots in the state's funds and laws on the collections of the currency, while all other media are like small plants that do not get the sun because the Kingdom News has such long branches. The plants are only dwindling, and many of them are completely withered under the shadow of the Kingdom broadcast. So I think there's a lot of bed for a debate about the advertising market, which is the main source of revenue for private media driving. You can hardly step on a free media medium without starting a conversation, before the radio show starts, or what it is, about whether the free air of the media cannot be increased to save yourself. Helping people self - help is now a real challenge in the spirit of independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u16	Mr. President. Iceland's main problem is land clinics as well as other health institutions. There is a primary need for nurses who have educated themselves but who choose to go elsewhere because of their long government struggles. There is no room for more people to be employed, and government responsibilities are also involved. The health system has been on the duty of the Independence Party in the government for the past seven years underprivileged and still is. In the numbers now presented in the budget, it is simply the construction of a new Land Hospital, the construction of the Akureyri Hospital, and the construction of the Grensás, a total of nearly 8 billion of the 9, the total increase to the lawsuit. The real rise lies in concrete, not in the necessary operating of the health system all over the country. It's an appendage to the highest level. Governments. Health workers save lives, run faster under human pressures, but they get a message from the government that it just doesn't do enough and is simply too expensive. Mr. President. In Iceland, we're heading for a national level of metallurgence. How about governments to open their eyes to see that by having these necessary facilities in medical institutions throughout the country, the whole community would heal? The wealth of money would make a great deal of money, the court lists would decrease, unemployment would be reduced, and the service would be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u17	A respectable president. In fact, it was a long stream and a series of false records. Let's start with the design problem. It's not a government invention, and it's not a custom. Manpower in the North countries is an enormous problem. There are tens of thousands of nurses missing in the North countries, tens of thousands. And Iceland doesn't stand out as a member of the northern states of growing old. The need for care is growing, and as a result, more nurses are constantly needed. If we look at the last five, six, eight years and ponder over their pay development, we will suffer. A senator especially points to them as being very positive. The value of wages has increased beyond what is on average in the country. The pay has simply increased dramatically. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator says these people are under a lot of pressure. The land hospital has a problem that is not just a problem for the designer. There are many other complex subjects, such as those on the e.g. We're right now, since one of the biggest problems in the Land Hospital is not being able to get rid of people who have returned to health because we don't have room outside the hospital to take people over. It is an independent problem that has nothing to do with the hospital's design problems but through a flow within the medical system. We simply have to do better in having room available for people who have been cured in the hospital and who need to get somewhere else. This leads to problems with the fight against the virus. The fact that space and health care professionals at the Land Hospital are busy caring for these people reduces the hospital's performance during the critical times we are living in. And we need all hands on deck so we can maximise our ability to deal with the virus. [[The president calls.]] There are these kinds of problems we're supposed to deal with. [[The president calls.]] However, the discussion that we have not done well with health groups is only wrong, and it is also a special problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is good to see part of the problem that is a release problem, which is also available at the highest level. Governments. That's it. Why? Yes, because the government does not have the time to place enough money for the nursing homes to which the rural communities are returning to the State. The daily expenditure, given at the highest dose level. A government with each member of the household into the nursing home does not depend on the services given there, at the highest level. Secretary of the budget. It's just that way. This isn't a business of your own in town. This is the highest responsibility. Governments. The human problem is here, not because it is all over the world, for nurses who have educated themselves are many of the people out of work today. If the highest. A government would be willing to add more funding to this system, and it could increase the number of nurses in medical institutions all over the country. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. The secretary of finance needs to realize. He's in charge. He just needs to be responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u19	A respectable president. As a society, we face a very challenging task, which will result in a largely improved situation in our nursing homes after we stop leaving two, even three, in apartments and rooms together. It has been an enormous challenge for us as a society, and we too are getting older, as I used to trace it. These are challenging times, and we will not be able to escape this problem in just one financial situation. Rather, we need to make a long - term plan to do better. You're absolutely right. A senator said that the nursing business has been very demanding. It was highly adapted by the 2016 frame deal that we in the Ministry of Economic Affairs observed, and we have also been clearing billions of dollars of nursing homes in the Penitentiary as did the State without a real obligation. So we have been doing many good things and have special emphasis in the constitution of a nursing home, which takes time. But for one thing, it's just another thing. A senator says we are desperately lacking more space. We need more space. It's impossible to have this flow problem the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u20	Mr. President. Now there is a historic recession in the economy, and unemployment has increased considerably. In Southnes, one in five is out of work. In many parts of the country, this situation is bad and worsening, 8.5% at national level. At such times education is designed not only to train and prepare people for the future but also to create cohesion in society and provide opportunities for renewal. Many people now pursue education, both to improve themselves and to promote society. A report of the future committees recently stated, with the permission of the president: Since there is only one expertise and the employers in a flexible career in which people pursue increased education through life's events, they can be expected to do even more changes in the lives of people. This calls for a new approach to education, where flexible ever-education becomes a practical possibility. It was thought of as a future, but this future is unexpected. We are faced with the fact that many are seeking increased education. Today, a degree of science has been called for. I haven't made it, and I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Where does it say? I would also like to ask, " Is it not now an opportunity for me to go on developing a more flexible process of learning, learning methods, and offers of change in time, but especially in view of high unemployment, whether there is no reason to open up the level of unemployment for students to gain on a much greater scale or at least not just those newly arrived from a labour market but in general way that we will make money while trying to improve our community? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u21	A respectable president. We are putting tremendous emphasis on education in this pandemic, and I'm going to mention a few factors to support it. First, we greatly add money to high school. We have made it a special goal for the students who apply to get into high school, to do engineering, or to add a student's test, to get in so that we have a large amount of money there. The same can be said for college. There we have made large sums of money, and the result at the university is very different today from what it was a few years ago. Hv. A senator asked in his real security check. It's being done in many places. I'd also like to mention in the context that at the time of my Congress, there is now a legal adjustment in which we're opening up to the university, i.e. that those who have completed a test of a boy get to the university will choose to do so. The purpose is not necessarily to increase at the university but also to encourage our young people to reacquire tickets and not to have some barriers after they have completed their industrial education. So this government has so much money into education. In our mind, it is clear that education is the main driving force of the 21st century. We know that there is a great movement in the workforce and that it is necessary for people to be able to access the education system and be reeduced. We have certainly lived up to the promises made in the government covenant, which are far from a vision.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u22	Mr. President. There was an excellent answer to some measures in the highest level. A minister named one word that I find important in this context, and that is a barrier. Poor is a barrier to access. The inability to pay rent is a barrier. People who want to study at that time need to be careful. No matter how much is added and opened up for more people to study; of course, if they don't have the opportunity to do so because of their own economy, it is a barrier. It's very nice to open up for engineering and technology, that those who have a boy's test will be able to go to college. Good. But what about offering unemployment benefits for students? What about strengthening the system so that people who are now in that group, 8.5% of the country, who are not employed and unable to make ends meet, have the opportunity to go to school?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u23	A respectable president. We're thinking about these people. One of the action we are taking on is the opportunity to help those who are unemployed to pursue the education they choose. That is what many billions of people are doing, so we are truly thinking about this factor. So also, I'd like to mention a new education. We've had a complete system change there. In order to meet the big challenge that the Korean virus truly is, and this increase in unemployment at the five times at the fair end so that those who had been in the employment market can gain a new education fund. Thus, we have undergone many very progressive and upbuilding actions. I couldn't agree more. Because people cannot afford to go to school, a senator has the potential to have some means of compromise. We need to put such things aside, and we are taking special care of them. We're looking at the tequilas and where possible barriers are, and we're also entering it. You're absolutely right, it's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u24	A respectable president. I recommend here for re moved and a little bit changed the bill to legalize a change of income tax law. The bill suggests that legal action on the legal authority of the state taxpayer's legal rights will be granted when legal documents fail to comply with legal requirements of 5 mg. 57st. income tax laws on metallurgy issues. At the same time, the wording of the same law makes it clear that there is also a legal arrangement for the business of the regular work station, and there is a slight change of speech without material change. A key element to all projects is that the critical party meets their responsibilities properly to document their business dealings with members. Therefore, it is urgent to submit a prior guilt warrant. In the contract of the law, a recent legal arrangement on the real owners and 15 branches was considered. Their administrative fines and their 120th par. law on annual bills, but the level of fines were looked at by neighboring countries. It was then considered that a decrease in the level of fines would be needed if the attorney, in imitation of 120 C.E., cleared the budget within two or three months. the bill of the year, for the purpose of enforcing information. In certain cases, the government tax manager already has authority under the above laws. In the United States, there is a new tax rights, if this bill becomes a law, that the head of the tax is authorized to use taxes due to the violations of the law beyond the appeals of 108.g. income taxation. Code XII. a section of the income taxation layer, with a range of 108. gr. on the strain of the governor and the regulations of the 109th year. the legal rights of the tax investigator are not considered to reach the point of knocking on information. It is thought that if the bill becomes a law, it will not lead to the grazing of 109. are excluded from the cross-cutting process, even if a guilty warrant has been used previously because of late and/or inadequate return of data according to 5 mgr. 57st. The law. If the bill is accepted it would seem to have a significant impact on the quality of the documents and the submission of the documents on the information of intermediate prices where it will be costing you to provide information or provide insufficient information. In view of the results of the implementation of the guilt warrants of the annual taxpayer's annual bill and significantly improved by the annual accounts following the adoption of guilty to law in 2007 and after a significant renewal of the warrant in 2016, compare Article 120 of Article 120. each year's bill. A law on loss of government fines if a taxpayer responds within a month to three months is also needed for taxpayers to see rather the benefits of responding rather than the benefits. It is not believed that the effect of the change in the government government will be significant if the bill is legal. The bill is made up in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in close cooperation with the head of the tax on the middle-of-the-interchange authorities and having agreed with the head of the IRS and taking into account the reports that were received during the last session. It was then that the bill was restored to the government's confidentiality. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u25	Mr. President. It's always a pleasure to be treated with tax charge and cover - ups that have been a disease in our economy for a long time and a reason to respond to it. But now we have responded several times, and several attempts have been made to improve this rule. I wondered, in the light of these changes, whether some kind of evaluation was conducted in the Ministry on how our legislation is compared to legislation in Europe. The report of OECD is not as if literature was lacking in this category. But can't we somehow deal with this so that once and for all, you can stop the intermediary and just finish it because it's been a problem for a long time? This has not been adequately fixed and we know that the cover is still in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u26	A respectable president. I think a certain turning point has been just the result of OECD, which has used more cooperation in the United States to eliminate tax fraud, and it has made a big difference in terms of man's going into the stitches of all major international cooperation in the tax business and making it a success of the table. OECD has taken up an informed discussion of the benefits for all. You see, there are so many other things besides the state's income stocks. We are in the process of dealing with competitiveness. We're talking about an international deal that requires companies to compete on the same basis. Those who have found holes in taxation or tax control weaknesses are shrinking from competing on a reasonable basis or under reasonable circumstances. I mean, OECD has done an enormous job. Our participation in that work and our willingness to follow directions given there is a measure of control over our priorities. Here we are, in effect, taking a relatively simple step behind other things that have been worked and simply done by the IRS section, that people realize that they can get guilty if they fail to do the paperwork that is fundamentally the premise that these matters can be taxed properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u27	Mr. President. It is quite true, and it is also well - known that every dollar on tax watch, especially in large companies and rich people, usually returns considerably during the time of the recruitment of fraud. Not that it doesn't have to be done the same, but of course we have to look at the right places. It's also right from the highest level. Minister, this will blow the market. This is a marketing error at the time of this event. So you wonder, as I asked in the previous question, but you didn't hear a proper answer to the question, if it can be handled in a more complete way than to always be in these little things. It's a good thing, but we know the scope of the problem, we know how it works. Is there no better way to handle this, possibly at the expense that there is a burden in some case for some company? It may be possible to look for a way in which the purpose of the weekend may be sanctified, even though we need to be careful not to go too far. The other thing to ask about is that we now have enormous insight into anything from bank transfers, credit cards records, etc., just the economy as a whole down to each entry. In the past it seemed unrealistic to cover all of this, just because all of this had to be handled by hand. Now we have computers that can detect abnormalities in a very simple way. Should we not make greater use of technology in tax control and, in particular, in international cooperation on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u28	A respectable president. I can agree that well - financed IRS is very important. It presents not only tax returns but also the fact that everyone plays the same rules. I believe, however, that there is some upper limit to their continuing to get paid benefits for every new dollar they put in an tax check. But we try to listen to the pleas of those who do this work from time to time and feel that we have come up with the need for money in recent years. On the other hand, I think for what it is. One senator says that in this case only the same law is really true. We must root out fraud, not just to limit payment because it's not a right, not just to limit the impact on government funds, but to make it a concern for the taxpayer that the system is not paying compensation to those who are not entitled to it. It would undermine social agreements and agreements in general if we would tolerate them, knowing that it was a fraud, e.g. in the social security system, just doing nothing about it because it would eventually bring little back to state funds. I don't agree with you at all. It is generally asked if we could do more to eliminate tax frauds associated with international trading and cover - up. I'm going to say that we've done very much and we're reaching out for the seminary, and here we need a small, simple, additional step. I can't imagine any further fundamental changes in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u29	A respectable president. I recommend a re-imposed bill to legalize the change in income tax laws and the laws on the payment of public pay. The bill has changed several times since it was proposed to the 150th legislature. Here, the CFC taxation regulations have been removed from the bill and will be submitted at the spring Summit of 2021. The bill contains suggestions for changing income tax law shapes on partner integration, secondly the rules of the same law on the limitation of interest production and finally the adjustment of laws on public pay due to the taxation of employees. First, just the match. The bill's proposal to change the rules of social integration is proposed to address the comments of the EFTA clinic, or ESA, that the European Commission's European legislation and use of disposal in the case of partners lost may be at odds with 31st and 40. The EEA Convention on Confirm rights and free flow of capital. The bill thus contains suggestions for a change of 55 g. income taxation. On one hand it suggests that partners in the Member States of the European Economic Area, Member States of the European Free Trade Association, or in the Faeroe Islands, located on the land, will be allowed to agree with national partnerships. However, it is suggested that a local mother-friendly partner be allowed to request a limited match with her daughter members, documented within one member of the EEA Member State of the European Free Trade Association or in the Faeroe Islands, as all the general conditions of taxation are otherwise met. Regarding the limitation of interest costs, it is suggested that these restrictions do not apply to linked partners who have access to taxation at 55rd. income tax laws when all enterprises are confined to their homes on the land. These include changes in tax obligations in the management of labour or other types of work done by foreign workers in the country on construction or construction projects. The need is deemed necessary to expand the responsibility and obligation of the domestic organisation as the remuneration of foreign workers for jobs in this country. The assessment of the impact of the bill on revenues, prices, and commercial resources is presented in the bill. Is it thought that the bill's law on taxation will carry some additional cost, at least to a shorter period of time, opening up a match with the domestic components that extend beyond the cliffs. However, there is no way to assess this effect in crowns at this stage, but it will show that there is a decrease in income taxation due to concerted loss within the kit immediately observed over a longer period. The Regulation on the terms of annuity of income tax laws on the limitation of interest costs is not likely to result in an increase in cost to the state's funds, since the law has not come to include domestic partnerships. An assessment of the impact of the government-enforcement directive is considered to be a direct influence on individual income taxes, responses, and insurance bills. At the impact assessment of the first non-compliant material, a number of workers from the Labour Office for Foreign Services who worked in Iceland 2017 and pay statistics comparable to the company's salary group in Iceland from the pay management sheet. This built up the likely distribution of revenues for foreign service companies. Taking into account the use of disinfectants and employment posts at present, while evidence of activities ahead of us in construction and human activities, the impact of the law on tax revenues is quite uncertain. Tax taxes, taken into account by personal discounts, may increase by up to 100 million. K. This year, on average, the period of five years of financial planning, and insurance costs of up to 200 million. K. every year, on average. Likewise, the rural society will benefit from this provision. Thus, the overall impact on government income is estimated up to 300 million. K. every year. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u30	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prehistoric finance minister. As he rightly mentioned, this is a response to an ESA demand, which is in itself fine. However, I would like to pause to be concerned that there is uncertainty about the effect this is going to have, and it is stated in the bill. You ask yourself, " Is this really properly prepared? ' In other words, there is a debate about profits in one group that can be met with losses in another partner. What is the effect on Iceland taxation in this respect? What is the output of this kind of taxation? This is also a key question: Is it possible to change the Member States of the same taxation, i.e. Can taxation be transferred from country to country every year? It's important to have it clear here. For example, could the taxation be in Iceland one year, Germany another year, and Britain in the third year? Am I right about that, top dog? Minister, is it possible to move from country to country? Isn't that about us losing taxes? Besides, I ask, where does Iceland stand when compared with other countries in the EEA in this respect, competitively and taxically? It's always complicated moving taxation from country to country. Then I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether this has any effect on the government's plan for strong resistance. Are we possibly missing out on tax returns? It is simply stated that it is vague. Then you wonder, " Can this affect the highly important form of government, and in this regard all taxes are important? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u31	A respectable president. I think we're sitting around saying that we can't say exactly how the lawyers choose to behave in the world we make in a tax way. But what's underlying is the effort of those who monitor the implementation of the EEA Convention to ensure single effort on the market. So here it has been used to refer to the Icelandic rules for harmonization and the use of demand for loss of employment may violate rules that apply to the Convention on Confirm rights and free flow of capital. If there is any doubt, and companies involved in international activities believe that Icelanders intend to employ a more narrower interpretation that will not be practiced elsewhere, it can also take the will of companies with a taxicate here to maintain it in the long term. If local tax policy is more favourable in other parts of the EEA than here, it may affect man's will to run its operation from here. There's one way to get to it. In this respect, I think it's a positive issue, defending the competitiveness of the workplace and its general business conditions. It's not a big deal on its own, but because of the rules of common taxation, because you can negotiate with lost companies, as well as with your mother's partner to request a limited taxation with company members in those areas, we can get caught up in earnings, if you look at the situation in that bilingual world. If we look at things in a larger context, I think it's a positive for longer-term tax revenue that the rules are competitive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. It's just that people cash in with the least amount of money they pay and transfer the losses where they pay the most. I'm worried that there will be a new country for that purpose. Then you ask yourself about Iceland's competitiveness. Then I'd like to get to another point that I think is important in this subject, i.e. The total number of double tax agreements we have made with a foreign state where the taxation power is sometimes left behind, but in the same way brought here by the nature of agreements. What effect is the highest. Minister that this bill can have on the government's income in the future as to the two-fold tax agreements made in Iceland? The question is also this: Is there any reason to change these contracts if this bill is approved? It does not tell you if it needs to be done. Then it would be helpful to know exactly what the effects are on foreign workers who do not have taxable family ties here. If they stop short, e.g. Just one or two months, are they taxed abroad? Mr. President. I have to say, and it's accepted in the bill, that it's unclear with the effect. I always feel bad when people are discussing tax matters and putting in the basics of those topics, that it is unclear what the effect will be. It is said that this may be the government's first loss of income, but eventually income will come. I don't think that's clear enough. I'm going to step in on it in a brief talk later, but I'm going to wait. Ministers to answer this with our double tax agreements and taxicate domesticity in foreign assignments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u33	A respectable president. I don't know that this calls for any change in double-folding contracts. Even if there's a simple law on this, I'm no better than there's an indiscriminate change that would never cause any upset in double-catit agreements. You're right. One senator says, we see efforts in international companies to arrange their activities so that they come in the best interests of the tax. There's no question about that. Businesses and individuals have shown a tendency through the centuries to escape over taxation. But I don't think we're talking about it here in ourselves. Here we may be talking more about that with too much pressured rules at home, which could call up the European Economic Area, you might be worried that those who would have had some sort of business in other communities wouldn't. In this respect, efforts are being made to eliminate barriers to human activity in one and all European economy. Some countries might thus have a competitive advantage over other factors that would lead to the otherwise otherwise otherwise undiscovered society, but because of local tax laws, they do not. There are these things that I think people are worried about. I'm going to argue that it's a good thing for us Icelanders to have a tax environment that is viewed by men and to say, "It's familiar with us, it's also in our home, and the tax issues in Iceland are not an independent obstacle to building this operation up from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u34	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I'd like to put it back in a little bit. As mentioned in the case of the highest. Secretary of finance is responding to ESA demand, which in itself is a good matter. But I want to put my concerns to rest because it is, in fact, impossible to assess the effects this bill will have. That's exactly what the Ministry has said. If I read this correctly, companies may not really take advantage of the warrant unless it is taxable and will result in a lower tax net for the kit. But it may return in taxes to Iceland, which would otherwise be paid elsewhere. I hope that's what I'm trying to do. Yet, all of this is unclear in the bill. I believe that there is a greater lack of scientific analysis of the impact of the bill. I think it is absolutely necessary to carefully review the work of the preceding committee. I would like to strongly encourage the committee to put the stitches carefully on how the bill will be affected. You wonder, " Is it sufficiently well prepared when it is stated that the effect is impossible? ' And as I said before, profit at one partner can always be a loss in another partner. I asked about it earlier in answer to the highest court. Secretary of finance if taxation could be transferred from country to country every year. V.E.G. A minister did not answer, but there is something that needs to be carefully considered on the committee, for this can be important. These matters are complicated. Overborder taxation is complex. It is likely that large foreign kits will produce tax returns at the lowest tax rate. They may then seek to postpone taxation as much as possible at the time of taxation. This is just the law in the tax environment that we know and in those who care for financial matters. I sure hope you're right by the highest level. Ministers that we stand reasonably competitively in terms of taxes. I totally understand that perspective at the highest. Ministers that all of this is the same whole thing that humans know about the environment here, which is the same as in their country, etc. Of course it matters to us. But I have to say, it would have been good to get it out, and that the committee goes over exactly what the wealth of the state really is. Of course, when the economy takes over after the viral epidemic, we aim for a powerful fight. Of course, this matter should not be minimized in some way. Almost every cent in the box these days. Businesses will return less to society by this taxation, and I think they can be predicted. I think it is also good and necessary that the committee reviews double tax agreements that we have made with a foreign state where the taxation power is depending on the nature of the contracts sometimes left, but in the same way sometimes brought here. And it's a question of whether we need to change our contracts. Everything has to go over. I mention at the end, and did so in counter-reference, how this exactly will affect foreign workers who do not have taxicates in Iceland. I feel like I'm missing, at least, from what I've read about it, to get it straight. Here are a number of foreign workers who will be stopping soon. Will they be taxed abroad? It would have to be viewed as well. But I agree with the highest. A minister, of course, that we should have a tax environment so that it is attractive and that we can attract a powerful, highly relevant business, especially in the big unemployment we face. Otherwise, I expect the committee to review the case carefully because it's a big case. Its effect is unclear, and it is the responsibility of the committee to review it accurately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u35	Mr. President. I would like to commend that on the bill and its report, there are diagrams. This may seem to be a small point, but there is much to imitate, especially since we are actually talking about a relatively complex tax issue. I have often ended up drawing diagrams to try to figure out the consequences of certain tax changes. It's very good to have the pictures with, I like to celebrate, and I'd like more to be done with it. One of the factors involved is that it is very easy to see on the bill that practicality, often the use of the same rule, can have a powerful effect. On page 18. 4 is e.g. Two diagrams, one of which is a local motherhood, a foreign blood society, and one within the country. If you were to apply the rule as it shows in a diagram 2 that the first daughterhood was actually a motherhood, etc., it is easy to imagine that a very long chain of companies could develop as a result of this change could possibly have been similar to that. Of course, all of these are very complex things, and I guess we'll be very careful about this on the economic and business committee. But I thought that there's reason to mention this, both because it's so positive to see diagrams, and it's all too rare, and also because the interactive rules, such as the one mentioned here, tend to seem very simple until you start to predict them in relation to a large economy, and even a lot of large economys, as the case is when you look at all the countries of the EEA and others under whom you can fall. I'm not going to go deeper into this right now. I'm going to try to encourage us to take this matter very carefully on a financial and business committee in view of the level of practicality involved. Other than that, I look forward to doing that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u36	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the budget for 2021. This bill suggests a change of several laws according to the criteria of a bill for the budget of 2021. The details of the bill are of many ways and both impact on the income and the pay side of the budget. I will now discuss some details of the most important things, but the review is not necessarily in the order that is found in the bill. First of hereditary taxation. It is suggested that the tax cutoffs of a fiscal tax increase from 1.5 billion. K. 5 million. K. but both the percentage of the genetic tax and the tax cut-offs have remained unchanged since 2010. Increasing tax freedom is a step toward reducing the tax burden of individuals who receive an inheritance from the estate of the estate. The increase in tax freedom rates will be particularly expected to be used by individuals who receive an inheritance from the lowest estates, but under the pressures of 2020, there are about 23% of the population in total value of 5 million. It is also suggested that the tax cutoff be adjusted yearly according to the development of the index price for consumer consumption for the future. In that case, the price of a centennial tax and fees. Here it is assumed that there will be a 2.5% rise in a so - called centenarian tax interest rate, in line with the prices of the budgetaries. In view of this, the tax stocks are shrinking, but the price-programming countries have an increase of 3.2% in the index price per year. However, a 2.5% increase is expected to actually follow the inflation target. Over the years, we have carefully updated the charges and taxes with prices so that taxes are overreached. We can see here that the cool effect of this change is about 1.8 billion. Let us now assume that we would lie down or perhaps pass the cost of moving on to these crowns for tens of years. Then we'd get about that. 20 billion effects, not true, if the effect per year is approximately 1.8 billion. It's such a gross account, given a certain price recommendations. Here, however, we keep to the prices of the Federal Bank, and that thought can be said to be rooted in a conversation with the labour market partners until 2014. Then it was emphasized that everyone laid on one thing to hold back the rise of inflation, and we made a statement at the time that there would be no change in these Cronus taxes and charges beyond the merit of inflation. So, what's under here is a carbon charge, an oil tax, a general special fuel charge, a typical mile tax, a car charge, and a price of alcohol and tobacco. This increase is expected to deliver nearly 1.8 billion, including effects on valuable taxes. The impact on the index value of consumer prices is minimal to 0.08%, and the increase in radio charge and expenditure in the elderly's labour fund is not included, but these charges do not affect the index. Next to the budget for the F.I.A. budget. Substantial and minimum and fixed expenditures are adjusted according to the law on the payment of costs for official financial monitoring. The overall change in ratios reflects a targeted monitoring fee to cover the budget and the return authorities. The total check cost is 2,180 million. K. and estimates that the second income of the budget is 41.6 billion. K. Total cost is estimated to be 2,66.5 billion. At a rate of 80 million due to the return power. In this way, the total cost of a total of 405 million is estimated to be higher than the sum of income conversations and will be reduced to the financial resources of the F.I.A. It is suggested that two new requirements be added to the law of new taxpayers who are expected to pay the cost of return management as well as that the Shared Bank should keep them apart from others. It is important to realize that with the return authority, we are discussing a new unit installed within Iceland's Secret Bank to perform operations and implement the preparations and management of loan institutions and stock companies. The procedure depends on the law on the same topic that became valid on September 1. At last it is suggested that the funds of fixed fees be raised for the dispensing of applications for the employment permit of a follow-up party. The changes taken into account by the Management Board's management plan are expected not to affect the survival of a trust fund. Next, pay expenses from the agent's account. The bill suggests an increase in the currency of a strain under the law on payment costs of agent debt. The budget is intended to cover the costs of the Agency's management and to be paid to the owners. The law states that management spending or loss of business should be taken into account from the activities of the agent in debt to determine the amount of money paid for the next calendar year. The loan of currency to Member States on December 31, 2019, was about 3,556 billion. and the estimated cost of a debt agent is about 321 million. K. This will result in 0.00536% for 2021. The crop stocks of the price are all loans to needy people. A respectable president. The bill suggests a 2.5% increase in cost to the elderly in accordance with the prices of the budget proposals by 2021. In fact, this is not in accordance with the prices of the presidents. Rather, it is under prices. According to this, the price will be 12,034. to each currency at the pressures of public pay in 2021 due to the income of 2020. It is estimated that the increase will give the State budget 65 million. K. in addition each year. At the same time, it is assumed that a special price for State Radio will be raised from 17,900 K. of 18300. And it's up to the general price change. Estimated additional revenues of the increase, except for some 116 million. K. every year. The current cost of nursing and the household's expense factor is one of this bill. This is a provision of a new arrangement, which is designed to prevent the growth of household expenses in nursing homes and nursing homes as relationships with the spouse's income have been removed. It is also suggested that temporary legal requirements be extended. As a result, money must be protected from the elderly's management fund to cover the cost of nursing care for the elderly in 2021. In addition, the bill suggests an extension of temporary arrangements to prevent the interactions between the social security disability and the disability of pensions back in 2021. It is then assumed that in 2021, the sum of the money paid on the job of a donor in the calculation of income insurance and household support will be the same in 2021 as in the current year. Free income is now 1,315.200. equivalent to 109,600K. per month. If not extended, the cut-off limit for biofuels for employment will be reduced by a factor of 1,315.200. of 300,000 k. and lead to a reduction in improvements in the energy and rehabilitatement of pensional patients who have a job income over the off-aching target. Unchanged expenses dropped by 1 billion in 2021. Here it suggests an extension of temporary work-replacement laws and work responsoring funds and insurance laws requiring the failure of labour reimbursement funds to receive a regular insurance fee in 2021. A similar law has been applied in the years since 2013. Still, the current budget for employment and pension funds is expected to be 0.10% or 0.10%, respectively. It is then assumed that an agreement between financial and economic ministers and social and child-friendly Ministers and the loss of the work programme will be made in agreement and that in 2021, the state fund of labour reimbursement will provide a contribution on the labour fees. In this bill it is assumed that the fixed dollar number of parish fees will increase from 975 k. of 980. Before 2021 C.E. The law's contribution to the parishes of the National Church and other religions is usually altered in accordance with the estimated change in the average taxation product strain of individuals 16 years of age and older, as well as the increase in individuals, but now, as in budgets for 2020, with a change in parish pay laws, is expected to establish a budget of charge. The budget bill expects 2,737.5 million. K. contribution to the terms of application fees should be taken into account in the general terms of the bill. As a result, the total increase in the application fee from the current budget is 20.9 million. K. Next, I'm going to discuss related greenhouse gas emissions and recycling costs. It is assumed that the amount of emissions would be increased by the amount of the total amount of waste required for each ton of waste would be increased from 3,025 k. of 3,430k. This is consistent with the change in the average price of emissions in the European Economic Area as it is in a year period ending on July 31 of the previous year. In addition, changes in emissions from cardboard stores are provided for oil products, products from the photographic industry, production materials, and preventatives. These changes are expected to have a negligible impact on the income of the state funds. As the bill shows, a small number of people are under obligation, even one if dead bodies do. Then on interest improvements. provisional regulations requiring the calculation rules of interest will be extended one more year, meaning that the system's algorithms and guidelines will be the same in the next year as they were this year. On the basis of these forewords, costs for growth reform are estimated to be 2.6 billion in 2021. The assessment of the impact of the bill on revenues, prices, and commercial resources. The bill's proposals are varied, and it can be said of their effect on income, prices, and riches. In order to cover the costs of public monitoring, some changes take place, either to decrease or to increase individual joints, while overall the price declines. This decrease does not affect the activities of FME, as there is a loss on its own to meet the total budget. New taxpayers to cover the cost of return costs fall on credit companies, credit companies and stock markets that fall under the values of the law on loan management and stock companies. The increase in radio charge and cost to the elderly is a total of 180 million. K. but these expenditures do not affect the index of consumer prices. At that time, the price of a dollar's bonus will increase the income of the state's budget by 1.8 billion dollars. The estimated effect on the index price, as previously indicated, is 0.08%. Suggestion in the bill on the unchanged growth reform criteria results in an increase of 2.6 billion, as stated earlier. The changes made to genetic tax will reduce the tax pay of state funds from what might otherwise have been paid. It is expected that the effect of increasing the tax deficiency limit will reduce the financial income by half a billion per year of 2021. The budget bill for the coming year has an estimated 3.7 billion income tax. In contrast, the agreed bill has a positive effect on the provision of individuals who receive an inheritance from the estate of the deceased. The income effect of the bill is expected on budgetary budgets for 2021 and in financial programmes for the 2021s 202025. Other changes affect either the income or the re behind but the combined effect is negligible. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and to the 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u37	Mr. President. In my first question, I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance only to increase the centenarian taxation rate. First, I ask, " Is it really right to raise them under conditions of society? ' In particular, I would like to ask you about the increase in centenarian tax consumption. In a so - called night economy, alcohol is a large part of a business business that has suffered great restrictions and closures. I wonder if it would be wise to use the alcohol charge rather to meet the operator's needs, whether it is too extreme to increase the taxes on alcohol in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u38	A respectable president. I'm good with what's to worry about. A member of the management board, which is largely based on the sale of alcohol. If we look at this in the light that there is a fixed dollar and prices in the country, this 2.5% increase will lead to a loss of the tax stock. I think if we get into that discussion, we're talking about a few cents in each case, we're not going to make it. I believe that discussions about the status of restaurants and pubs and other such bodies should take into account a far greater context than those of the crowns added to the prices reimbursement of these charges. I am more than just interested in whether we have just gone too far in this payload. There's a public health policy, but the other scale has some basic conditions for those around them. [[The president calls.]] Then we need to take the matter to heart rather than ponder over the few cents in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u39	Mr. President. Thank you for the answer. I may have been speaking out of the question, would it not be right to reduce a temporary drink charge to these operators, if that be possible? The other thing I just wanted to touch, in this short answer, is the genetic tax. I'm glad you're raising your holiday target and linking it to an index number in the future. I ask if, in connection with this, it was thought to disappear from binding the discount to the estate itself and moving it over to each heir. Of course, the tax is placed on what belongs to the heir. The nature of the matter, according to one estimate, is a bit unfeeling to the taxation, but the heirs are not. Would it be considered a step toward considering each person's condition rather than the death itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u40	A respectable president. The main reason for continuing on the taxation of the estate is the tax process in itself. I think that if the Committee seeks the tax returns on the matter, it will be very clear that taxing will be a much more complex taxation for each person. It's in its own way to simplify it. But I understand those views, and they've been tore in here before. Back to the business conditions of those in the restaurant service. I think there's good reason to wonder what we can do there. Long before the start of Covid, we saw the enormously narrow conditions of these partners. rent has increased very much, especially here in the capital area. The pay has also increased to such an extent that the pay rate in this business is derived from all rhythms from what is known elsewhere, and public costs are also very high, alcohol consumption likely one most expensive in Europe, at least This was true before the dollar dropped. Thus, there is a real need for this operation, and there is a great deal of concern about this operation in general. [[The president calls.]] I intend to have a meeting with the members of this field in the next few days, and I have every reason to discuss this in the larger context of the parts over the next few weeks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u41	A respectable president. We're always seeing a new picture of how miserable and terrible this evil, this butt-scraped monster that's become social security and how it bites people very badly. We have an inheritance tax, and we've had this discussion before at the highest level. Secretary of finance, that's 5 billion. K. a single - income goal - that bites how? Yes, it bites almost 3 million by the microchip, and more than 3 million by older citizens, who are at the lowest rate in social security. That's what they think. Minister, quite reasonable. I ask: How does he get it out that sick people, who are at the lowest of all things, who really need this money, should pay into the system, but the others, who are really good and have good things, shouldn't do it? Why don't we turn this around? Why don't we leave them to those who really need it, and we'll tax up the money for the others who don't need it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u42	A respectable president. I'm always open to making changes to the system. I don't think the systems are given to us humans from heaven, but they are simply human works and show our efforts to do good with our fellow citizens, who for various reasons have failed to share the same opportunities in life or have fallen under, have not in the case of sensibilities in the case of pensioners, and in the case of disability pensioners. That can be for various reasons. I'm more than ready to discuss changes in these systems. But I always want to keep it up when people point out the flaws of the system how large it is, how much has really been added in this system in recent years, how much effort we put forth to be with people who are in a weak position. We will. We use a substantial portion of our tax returns to this category, and we do so so so that it most ratios to those who have least. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Yeah, I agree, it's a really big system, and that's why it would have to be simple. We now see that the balance of pension funds is being altered. This needs to be done every year. Then there's the vacation market. V.E.G. The minister will come up here and say, "It won't be the same, 109,000 bucks. next year. It's not the same. It's a shrink. If not, they should have a index increase of 112,500 bucks. They're putting taxes on them as much as possible, the people who are really trying best to work. I'm asking, "Why on earth can't you even raise this thing by 3.5%, that little 3.5%?" Not about 5.2% as it should be, or 7%. No, you're going to stay the same, and you're proud of it. I don't see how you can be proud to have it like this because it's a tax raise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u44	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator's opinion is that these failings are of great importance. But if we examine their development - what should we give ourselves? 12 years back? - they've bounced out and south, both of them shrunk by themselves, but also by the control height. In that way, we were not moving up to prices when we went up to that right about 110,000 bucks. last, but in that case, we increased the limit of normal by about tens of thousands. It can be reasoned that after a person has found some balance point, such values should be held in price. I understand that in itself. But eventually this will be calculated as a donation to the system, and all the underlying factors, including the upsaturation, have to be taken, which is 3.6% this year, i.e. ... intheselaws. When all these teams are taken along, they can ask themselves, " Is the rules fair or not? ' That discussion will soon be exhausted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u45	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. I'd like to include only the importance of a government fund getting all the money he's entitled to and surely need in this year's journey and what lies ahead. We all know this, and it has been discussed over and over again that the balance of government funds is enormous. The tax research is now being done well. I think a few years ago there was a report that showed that tax fraud could be about 80 billion a year. I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister if he believes that this is enough tax research, if at this point it is not necessary to place more tax research and to work on tax fraud. Also moved to the highest. Ministers of interesting and good record of fraud. I completely agree with him on this matter. [[The president calls.]] But I wanted to ask the highest. Ministers to what has been done in the past of this government and in the past. Secretary of the Ministry of finance to overcome fraud. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u46	A respectable president. We put money in research on fraud a few years ago, and I think it's worked, but I'm thinking that we could do more. Today, it has been mentioned whether we should not better use our information systems to detect variations and investigate them, etc. I'm really on that line, and I think we just scraped the surface on what we could do by using data better. Bounty fraud is the very type of case that actually builds on identifying the underlying data, causing a person to experience abnormalities that are abnormal and to take them into consideration. For the tax research, I have recommended it here at the council more than once that we would add additional contributions to them. We're doing it again and again, and I'm fine with the way they are financed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] According to my best awareness, we are meeting the world's expectations for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u47	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. In terms of fraud, I'd like to agree with it as the highest level. In his speech earlier, a minister said. This, in turn, undermines the agreement on government tax returns and only general interest and the need for people to pay taxes and to know exactly what they are doing. It also affects those who truly need social security. So there is much work to do to keep the group busy. It is appropriate to inform them here that I specifically asked about this at a meeting of the legal committee over a year ago. The members of the Ministry came to our meeting in which we discussed these matters, and I asked if there was a special department in the social security system that specifically dealt with fraud. The answer was: No. I asked: " How is this work being done? The answer was: It's an answering machine. Those were the answers I received on the committee. I think we have to take these matters seriously. A lot of money is involved, and this is also important for those who truly need the social security system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u48	A respectable president. All I'm going to do is say that I think we could do a hell of a lot more to root out fraud. And I think there's a lot to do. I'm not going to argue that reform fraud is public and extensive, but we have to make ourselves feel like they're being monitored for the consequences of trying fraud. It has to do with solidarity and agreement in society, that people are happy to be organized into a lawsuit where there are laws and regulations and normal surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u49	Mr. President. The Bjords'finest costs the rich and the poor alike the 470s, the tax returns to some percent, or percentages yield more money to rich people than poor people, but remuneration costs people as much regardless of income. For years now, I have been calling for some sort of analysis of how much money it is to weigh on the public by means of this endless repercussion. It has seemed that it is creating some tax downs that look good on paper, but at the same time it is raising the cost to the public, and this is actually affecting less income. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Can he say that these changes - these list increases - are not worse affected by those who earn less money?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u50	A respectable president. I can claim that the overall impact of the budget and the government's actions next year will be more effective in making the most of the income - greater. This is the most significant result of the substantial decrease in income taxation, which becomes at the bottom of the tax level, and will increase their share mainly in paying taxes below 450,000 dollars; this will result in their provision of revenues. In addition, biographies have special increases in these groups, allowing them to be chosen, in terms of the salary, to improve more rapidly than in other groups. A high - income individual and the low income also pay their taxes in proportion. When a person goes out to a hot dog and has a hot dog, he may do so with a good conscience, one next to each other; he has returned his taxes, and he pays more than the sum of the tax and the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u51	Mr. President. I wasn't asking about the tax rate change. I was asking if these specific remunerations would result in greater inequities, especially in view of the fact that most of these remunerations apply primarily to companies. This can result in a chain effect, causing prices to rise in the community in general. I've never seen a financial analysis or anyone from anyone else in my life as to how government retails are affecting the prices of the country, and hence the survival of people in the community. I think it's the best. Ministers work very hard to draw out the others, and these terms somehow justify the presence of some overall effect. However, the fact is that these remunerations have never been adequately analyzed, pointing to the fact that the economy is not just one business but a harmony that affects all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u52	A respectable president. It is simple to find that one extra dollar in expenses for low - income workers is more difficult than one extra dollar for earnings. Hence, it is so important to examine the overall impact of the financial and financial contributions made by the State. It simply leads to the conclusion that this government is promoting measures that are more efficient than others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u53	Mr. President. The bill we're discussing here seems very, very exciting and filled with numbers and changes to the others and these laws. The fact is, this bill is extremely important, and we have a financial and business committee to consider. There are changes in registrations involved in many language fields and a number of lawsuits, and we need to consider all of that in context. I'd like to mention a few points here at 1st. and then, of course, we'll look into all of this together on the Committee, and we'll review this with 2. In the United States, it is very important that if tax changes or changes are made, they will be the ones to promote commercialism during this year's journey, in the problems we are facing. It is important and essential for all of us to prevent smaller companies from falling unstealed while larger companies grow and raise prices in a weaker competitive environment. That is why we suggest that until one year, the change in the insurance price will be 2 billion. K. a discount so that all companies get 2 billion. K. A discount. In this way, the smallest companies, with four or five employees, pay no insurance fees in 2021 and can use the space to recruit or continue their work. The discount is good for medium-sized companies, but, of course, all companies get this discount, as we think, even if it was less important to the largest. I think this is a very good idea and it includes, as I say, a quick decline for a small and medium-sized company which will lead to working against the fall of smaller companies. They are extremely important to our economy. We must not contribute to the growth of larger companies and thus weaken the competition, affecting the prices and the benefits of all of us. I wanted to mention this idea. I hope the management is taking it well and we can give her time on a financial and business committee to review what this means for the labour market and the corporate cover as it is facing us today. There are many small tourism companies, so I mention examples, and cultures companies who would really benefit from this but are in serious trouble right now. The other thing I wanted to say is a general insurance system and how it goes ups. First, I'd like to mention a non-paying market for your salary. It's like the highest. The minister went over here earlier, it was 109,600 bucks. per month. What needs to be considered in this context is that it was also the same amount in 2010, but it has remained the same. If this amount, this holiday market for remuneration, had been followed by real pay development, it would have lasted for about 200,000 bucks. today. I think it's every man who sees this has to change. There are steps you need to take to raise the pay fee. Our social security system should not be built up to discourage people who can sometimes win. When these losses are so cruel because of pay paid in the social security system, they can also simply lead people in the poverty trap that many are in here. We need to set that trap free. Then, too, the basis needs to be increased in the same way, i.e. Aims for real pay development, the pension and the disability and rehabilitation of life, increases the foundation and lets it follow real pay development. V.E.G. The minister reviewed it in unsupervised inquiries earlier today to the 69th paragraph. ... intheSecuritiesSecondSecretation Act, not allowed to do that. Then, in the United States, we will say: If we always break up with the employees and those who have to rely on insurance payments, let us change this article. Today, the difference between minimum income insurance and this basic pension is 80,000 bucks. month (s). As the government reports on the budget bill, this difference will be 86,000. per month. If we don't do anything, if we don't stop this trend, the difference will be more year by year, and inequities will increase here. We must respond. That's obvious. The same can be said of child reform. If the amount and standards of these people do not follow, then there will be disintegration. I've said it before, and I haven't changed my mind, or us in the United States, that we have to pick up the children's relief system and look to other Norwegian countries, and we're looking at it as if it were trying to match the status of the children with those who don't have children. It is unacceptable in a norse welfare state who wants to live up to the name of making child reform begin to be impaired below the minimum insurance policy level, as in this country. Other Norwegian countries have largely uninhabited child benefits, all of their highest income in Denmark, affecting child - welfare. In the United States, we say: " Let us take a little more realistic steps than making them totally uninhibited. ' Let's go to the average wage, let's not let them start cutting at 325,000 bucks. currently, we're going to make the average wage that's somewhere between 700 and 800 yards. K. the month, or the year before. Let us take a step this way, so we equal the position of children in the country with those who do not share children. Then, President, we have to put our arms on people who have lost their jobs, who are more concerned with the families who bear the greatest load of the crisis we are in. In the past, it was discussed that reformal fraud, which is not very common, would undermine a solidarity in the country. If we're going to let the people who lose their jobs in this condition carry the weightiest load, if we're not going to give them a helping hand, if we're not going to distribute our burdens, the community has disappeared. It is good and blessed to have extended the income-related improvement period, but the basic non-employment is to be increased and better done. You can do one thing. Donations of cash, jewelry, or other valuable personal property. It's not the government to do, but we in the United States want to take steps. President. I would like to stress that this is a very important project. Finally, I'd like to say and stress that if we really want to work at inequities in the community, we have to watch social security, unemployment insurance, child insurance, and housing, and make that amount come up with real pay development. I'm talking about housing. V.E.G. In his speech, the minister reviewed that the criteria for growth reform remain the same as they have not changed for many years. There is one way to destroy a system not to change criteria, specific criteria, while other variables, affecting what people have to pay for growth, change, e.g. Real estate prices, salary, interest rates, credit rates and whatever it's under there. It changes, but the standard established by the government for growth reforms is always the same as that which reduces the system and does not help those who need it. Mr. President. That's what I wanted to say in 1st. I want to reiterate that this bill, which is unattractive at first sight, is not when you start to examine the effects of it. We need to give a review of that quality time to sleep. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u54	A respectable president. Here's what we're talking about. A member of the state's various support systems and calls attention to growth improvements, baby reforms, and other factors that are important in our systems. If we look to the way the government is using these support systems through a difficult time, we may well find ourselves. To have compensation raised beyond the price of this loss, and to compare it with what happened in the years after a crash, we see a very different picture. Hv. A member of that government, part of his time as minister of finance, and was in the administrative sector all the time. We can take the examples from time to time. Percussive was frozen, he was not allowed to raise according to prices. At that time, certain social security improvements were introduced, and in front of the term period, child reforms were not allowed to develop, as had been the case in the previous years. And here comes why. A senator and he announces that we should have our social security paid not only raised as a price or a salary in the country but also as a pay number. How credible this should be, in view of the reason. A senator has been in the administrative part of his past history controlling all these support systems through a crisis? Then it was a completely different route. Don't people really have a commission here? That's how it sounds to me. Most of what they say to provide the board now, I feel like I'm really doing it: You're on the right track. You just have to do a little more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u55	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister should now know better what the situation was on these systems when the economy collapsed here in 2008. To the highest. Ministers should compare the situation we were in then with the people we are today is absolutely ridiculous. But since then unemployment improvements were increased to 95% of the minimum in 2009. In January 2009, the improvement in social security increased in the same way, making it the best use of the most successful of the network. And I can pump to the highest. Ministers with endless information on how, from 2013 to today, the industry has been slow and slow between employees and those who have to rely on social security benefits. Yes, it is true that when we were in difficult situations, we took out the parts of the child repairs that were not too much for us to pay. But we raised them to those who needed more. And as soon as we saw the country, as we saw we were getting the hole together on the budget, we increased the child support. Then we put a special focus on the interests of children and on increasing child reforms by 30%, if I recall correctly, in budgets for 2013. But since then, when we officers would like to take even more decisive steps toward improving the social security, housing, and child - reform system, we have been able to overcome the bad side. There is no superimportation here. Here we are merely talking about the real situation of the worst people in Iceland. We're talking about the status of the poorest people in Iceland. It breaks through it and the employees, and it always turns down and down into the poverty trap. [[The president calls.]] We have to deal with it, and the government isn't doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u56	A respectable president. I just don't agree that we are in a much better position right now than we were in 2009. If we look at the angle of the state funds this year and next year, it will be nearly 600 billion. It's about politics, it's about economicism. And it is only a matter of time before you recall the route, drawing as much as a public investment was made. Meanwhile, we stress the importance of increasing our investment. Then come those who want to criticize that policy and say: There is more to be done. We're defending these systems, then the systems were run. It's just a fact. A senator on that. The personal discount was not allowed to comply with prices. There was a major decline in social security in many parts of the world that were subsequently dejected and factors such as child support were screwed down. Even if it should have been returned to some extent in 2013, these are just facts. These are facts. Hv. A senator wants to draw special attention to the position of those who have the least in their hands in Iceland. I then pointed out that in recent years, we have managed to handle matters in such a way that their power of money grows each year. Then come the senators. A senator does here and says: Well, the problem is that they have failed to meet the exact minimum wage development. It is only a major challenge to make this happen, considering that in recent years the earners at the bottom of the income ladder have received a special priority. That's why it's cheap to come here and say, especially when the state's budget is 260 billion: we're just supposed to have all the social security benefits come in a bit later. I notice this afternoon, discussing these big and important matters, that there's very little discussion about how we dig back out of that hole. This will only happen by promoting employment, starting up a new application that will return the government's funds to live up to all of this. But this will not happen by any suggestion to increase your expenses without getting something on the side of the income.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u57	Mr. President. Yeah, let's just stick to the facts. Mr. President, in 2009, who were the fliers? Do you remember? They were 18%. They're 1% today. The interest rates offered during those years to borrow were on high ground. In fact, no one wanted to lend us money after the collapse of the economy. Now credit rates are everything else, and loans are practically free. And already the highest. A minister says that we need to create jobs, and what he listed earlier, not to consider the welfare of the people of the country, I say: We need to create jobs. We need to meet both men and women, not do what is best. A government that proclaims sex palaces in their delinquencys and leans on women who still have more job jobs in the country. But we too must improve our well - being here. And it's not enough just to look at companies, and even not all of their companies, and help them break up people. The economy of the households needs to be looked at, for those who must bear the weightiest burden, those who are unemployed in the country. As in Southnes, where there is more than 20%, the area where unemployment is growing rapidly needs to be watched. You need to do both. Of course, we need to finance a short but long - term loan with a more righteous tax system, with a more varied economy, and, of course, with a fair profit from the nation's resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u58	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I would like to agree with what he said in his talk about the importance that we can live up to all the expenses that lie ahead of us and the great leanings of the state's budget. Then I find out what I went in a little earlier in return to the highest level. Ministers, but there are taxes and tax frauds, which are important because government funds need everything in this situation. It is necessary to overcome the tax - culminating lesion. As I said earlier, they are estimated to be about 80 billion a year, an enormous amount that we really remember. Mr. President, I believe we should take these matters into consideration. Sure it's a good thing that we're here to raise the IRS, but I think we need to do better. In addition, during the discussion on the budget bill, I was told that there are far too much lost tax requirements every year, more than 17 billion this year, and increases from year to year hundreds of millions, 300 or 400 million, remind me of, from the last budget. Here's something wrong with our system. It can't be that every year we're looking at such enormous sums. This is a legitimate tax requirement that does not return to a government fund. V.E.G. When it comes to tax matters, a minister talked about social solidarity and reconciliation, and there's no fair that certain companies can get away with paying their dues and the natural ones too when it comes to losing tax charges. This is a matter that is urgent. V.E.G. The minister mentioned it in his speech in connection with the budget that he agreed with me in that it had to be done much better, and I really hope it will be done. We talked about it only earlier, and it's important to handle it, too. But I have to say, it was shown in answer to the highest. Minister that nothing had been done in the time of this government to prevent them. It also involves what I said that can be done better with those who truly need the social security system. All of this involves the income of a wealth of government, which is of utmost importance, and especially in these difficult circumstances. I'd like to come in for a minute and mention at the beginning of 1 1. The bill that discusses official financial monitoring. You ask: What demands does a state fund counter to the work so that there is a normal agreement between real - life growth, so to speak, the surveillance, and the business goals of a government fund? The question is, Is it possible that the SEC, which is actually up to the Seal now, can run this operation just any way? It is said that the price should meet the costs for monitoring. At the last budget, the Agency's own money, the FDA, was decided to cover it. It continues in these laws. It is the government's decision that the surveillance will continue on its own money and thereby reduce the cost. One might ask himself: " Is that really necessary? The bank tax has now been lowered, and the process has been accelerated. I have certain doubts in this regard. I would have liked to see a portion of this money being used to assist those who are experiencing problems with the epidemic. I don't really see a purpose in reducing this price on the business banks, as I mentioned when the case was settled here a year ago, and I'm on it. In view of the fact that the bank tax has been reduced, you might ask yourself, " Is it necessary to go that way too? ' I'd like to mention here in particular 28. that discuss the State Radio. The price paid by virtually every citizen in the country is to be raised, of course not young people and older citizens. On budget, the State Radio receives about 4.5 billion dollars. Mr. President, there is a great need to discuss it at the Senate Hall whether it is reasonable to place so much money in this institution. In fact, I found it interesting and enjoyable that the secretary of finance agreeed with it here in an inquiry class this morning, in response to an inquiry from what happened. paritaprevir Ólason's 32 - year - old surmise on whether it was right for humans to set aside this particular price of choice for special media. I think that's a very good idea, and that's a top minister. to examine it. Now there are ideas about taking the Kingdom News out of a commercial market, and you ask yourself: " Is the government fund to pay for it? These charges are now rising by 116 million. K. in the coming financial year of this bill. Last year there were 120 million. I think it's just a general modern requirement, so to speak, to review whether it's a general social agreement for putting so much money into this business, which, yes, is on a competitive basis. I'd also like to enter only the carbon tax that has so slightly raised in the history of this government. It's just that way. Money from it is now estimated to be 5.6 billion. The increase due to transport is 175 million. The overall increase in carbon charge is a 2.5% raise in 2021. The natural process increases the prices on the litre of gasoline and diesel oil, making the most of the country's inhabitants who have to drive a road longer than they can walk and happen in the capital area. It must be said at the present point that there is a growing taxation in the public and the public car owner. If we just cross it in this bill what these costs, these increases, have a lot to do with the public car owner. Having a car in Iceland where a car is needed, as we know it, especially in Iceland in the weather we live in. I believe that there is good reason to cross taxes only on automobile owners. Not to be overlooked is the fact that not everyone can afford to buy an electric vehicle, and such vehicles are not suitable for all. In this discussion, it seems always forgotten that it is costly for those who may not entirely have new cars to switch to electric cars, they cannot be expected. It's just not everyone's move. It is clear that the carbon pay that has been rising substantially in the history of this government is worst for the most efficient groups and for those who cannot afford to buy a new car that is less efficient. It is also very interesting that the highest. Environment Minister has acknowledged that the results of this payment are difficult to assess. It was noted at a meeting of the budget committee when the Environment Ministry presented the committee in connection with the last budget that the Ministry cannot determine the results of this fee. Of course, the results of the price cannot be determined. That's just a matter of fact, Mr. President. Do we use less diesel oil, or do we use less fuel? We don't have any numbers on this. That's what we need to be able to do. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said that success involves the rapid growth of electric cars. Yes, it is a pleasure, but this tax must be balanced to the people of the land in a fair way, and that does not make those taxes aquifers. Middle-class people have talked a lot about how it is fundamental that the tax is leveled on the population in a fair way. Some senators have simply rejoiced in this taxation that I find very strange. How can we, e.g. Happy at something that is admitted to the lack of appreciation for the results? It's just that way. It's perfectly clear that this has to be done. We know that while automobiles release some 6◯8% of carbon dioxide, automobile owners carry about 90% of these emissions - related taxes. V.E.G. A financial and economic minister would also need to be evaluated for the household composition of the rise in carbon pay. There's need to know. And you ask, "Is there not the danger of taxing the most treatable group in other parts of the bill? Then the plan is to support, e.g. The amount of taxes that you're looking at is fine. It's necessary to get out. The price is to raise by the year, which means an increase in gasoline and diesel oil. The result is vital. We then know by means of the carbon emissions and canals, and all that has been mentioned there are no figures on how many new canals are dug every year in Iceland. There are some information that needs to be available, but all of this seems to be more and less unsearched, but it has to be said exactly as it is. This taxation is made when we do not know what the natural results are. Mr. President. Granted, climates are serious, and we in the Middle East view them seriously, as all classes do. However, we make it clear that there is a right way to go, which leads to success, and which leads not. This is absolutely necessary. It is normal for taxpayers to be informed about new taxes, whether by carbon tax or by tax taxes on fluorinated gases, gases, and what is all of these: What is the result? I am convinced that the public would be more understanding, at least more understanding, that this taxation would be recorded if they knew what the results were. But that is not the case. There is no perspective in my opinion in this case, and the government has only continued in this category to show that it is doing something. The action lies in tax increases, but no one knows what the result is. So many were the words about the carbon tax. Next thing I'd like to do is to get to the inheritance tax, which is 10% of the tax stock of the canal. I'm glad we're here to make some changes in the holiday goal. The tax paid by the tax paid by the tax paid by the tax paid by the donor is annuity tax. We in the Middle East have stressed that this tax will be removed. Those who prosper to leave behind some worldly possessions in their lives for their offspring at death and who have paid their taxes for this reason, they all know that. But it is over, and there are old and new tax issues, both present and past, that people accept paying fair taxes but tend to avoid paying fair taxes, if the tax system is unfair. I believe that this tax should be reduced immediately to 5% and then eliminated. We've been talking about it in the middle of the pack. It is necessary to examine the tax treatment of a legacy that people indulge in. It's, for example. More and more frequent, the pay of an inheritance in advance. But this change is in the right direction, and I'm celebrating it. There are a number of polls on tax recovery in the West, and no matter where the question is asked, in every place the public believes that taxes are the most unfair taxes on the government. The tax is due, Mr. President, simply unfair from the common standards of fairness in the tax system. The genetic tax is bifolding, that is taxing what people will be after their lifetime work, the result of their tax pay on everything else. Therefore, it is necessary in my mind that we take the full step, not too long, to eliminate this tax. Finally, I'd like to say that this bill is otherwise traditional. But it's positive that the main repercussions are slightly lower than the index increase, so it's a good example and relate to the natural biographies, I suppose. However, such a rise is being made. The recycling costs, in fact, are increasing by more than 33%. I think it's necessary that this work be done in the future. It should not always be a government fund, which takes the lead in raising expenses for every year, which later raises the inflation that we can't afford at all, raising the loans of the households, etc. That's why you ask: Is it only because it's all about any contracts, biographies, collective contracts that are going that way today? I think this should be a good example into the future, that men think carefully before they go along the way of raising every single year. You may wonder, " Does the initiative not come from the government but more from unions and labor unions? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Other than that, Mr. President, I'm going to enter this discussion in later stages.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u59	V.E.G. President. I know the government doesn't like external suggestions, perhaps least in the discussion of the budget, but I think it's all right to wonder only in this state of affairs. Secretary of finance, whether things could be done a little different and better, I'm not talking about in the present circumstances. It will be inevitable, however, to mention only the outhandment side, even though we are here on the income side, since all of this remains in its hands and is difficult to distinguish completely. What we see in this bill is primarily the rise in fees and taxes. You must wonder whether this is the time for such a bill, whether this is the time to raise your dollar bills and the various forms of the spells, especially these so - called green taxes, which simply mean that the public, the people in the country and the companies, will have to pay more money to the State when most people, or very many, at least Both professional and household support have been seriously protected. Is this the right time to put an even greater spell on that person? The year's costs are going up, but I'm going to lower the world's highest rate. There's not so many years since the secretary of finance at least. two men we both know, wanted to get out of this cycle by disappearing from these spontaneous increases, they pay every year. In fact, that work was started and carried out, for the first year, if I remember correctly, it was reduced by half, and it lasted to continue. But now all of this is back to old times, and here we raise the centennial charges over the line by 2.5%, and they refer to the prices of the Secret Bank. Is it reasonable, though, that the State always leads to a price? That New Year's Day is not the least because the State will raise its prices and everyone else, or at least A lot of people, so to speak? Because all of this leads to an advantage system in one way or another, when the costs are raised, to create a car crash, this affects what the companies need to run them collects from customers. The government gives the tone at the beginning of each year in terms of prices. Wouldn't it be better if you want to maintain these reductions, to keep at least so that the state follows rather than leads to it? But especially in the present circumstances, you would think that the Kingdom would hold back with such payoffs. Me and the highest. Ministers must agree that simple tax and tax and tax systems and payments can yield to greater wealth, more professions, and even higher incomes to the State as a result of greater wealth and other occupations. Why, though, does the government not now use the opportunity to demonstrate that this religion is there to simplify tax systems and to reduce tax tax burdens contribute to the growth and value of the work? For it is indeed necessary. Instead, we receive a traditional raise bill, and as I could only mention earlier, there are things that increase more than others, especially those so - called green taxes that have in some way be less burdensome or acceptable because they are called green, but in many cases they are extremely strange. I'll come in a little later. We have to keep in mind that taxation is high in Iceland in international comparison. If financial contributions are taken, which is natural, so in most places, it is part of the taxation, Iceland with the countries that have the highest taxation in the world. Now that we, the economy, and the families are under such protection, is it not the time to make a change? To move things in the right direction, to signal a change of direction, and to give more encouraging direction so that you can rely on someone to hire more people or at least to continue the business, because many companies have been in serious defense for a long time. Long before the epidemic began, SMEs had become very protected by high costs, including high prices. Pay to the State in various forms. We planned a last election, which will have been 2017, that insurance bills would be dropped and charged. so that there would not be an insurance fee of the first ten employees to meet the smaller companies in particular, which often get more on the insurance bill than others because of the high percentage of their expenses. Since then, we have offered additional suggestions on the insurance bill, which is so negative. It's a special tax for recruiting. Also, we've discussed some ideas about the income tax system, and I would have thought to be the highest. A minister should be able to agree with us on many of the points that we have highlighted in these topics, even though he might want to discuss the move. The income tax system, however, has become very workwreck, bringing them down to the homes, especially this loss. There is also reason to reduce the number of expenditures that have gone up each year, especially costs that actually work as a nasal tax, a fee that is paid in some way independent of income. This is especially true of those so - called green fees, which increase each year, in fact, incredibly fast and bite to form on all those who own and drive. And there's always the increase in these green fees. New green charges are being invented and special climate costs are now being paid. In fact, it has been done for some time, but it has increased completely amazingly. They are referred to in the development of international emissions markets, which I think the Icelandic government should seriously consider whether to be a participant, since many have suggested that this is taking on the form of some kind of guill. But, as the bill says, the amount of climatic expenditures rose from 1,256 k. in a ton of 3,025, more than doubled last year. Now it's time to raise it still by 400 bucks. of 3,430k. and referred to this international scam, say some, that's at least a very ostentatious and strange criminal system that finds it hard to figure out where the profits of pay will often come, or the benefits. Of course, at the same time, we also need to take on savings if we want to reimburse the tax system, making it more encouraging, valuable. That is why you would have believed that this is also the time to strike the so - called booth. V.E.G. The last time we were discussing the matter, a minister of finance mentioned that the booth had not really grown in comparison with national production. It'd be okay. But now, as noted at the outset, national production can, of course, be intertwined. This results in a rapid increase in both levels according to this control criteria. Minister, as it has now. The usefulness of the budget also needs to be better than it has been. V.E.G. Minister has been talking about waste in the public system lately and it's good at the highest level. Ministers to draw attention to it, for in many areas the budget might be so much more used, including in the largest category of expenses, such as health care, where a system is still being run that could clearly be much more efficient in various ways and at the same time provide better services. There is a famous example of replacement operations in which people are sent abroad, and the cost of the State is even tripled by those allowed to perform such operations in similar offices in this country. There's some political view that I would have held to the highest. Minister no room. However, that vision is more than practical, practical, and meaningful to patients. It also needs to be much more aware that the practical means of investments that the State is taking over. I have been amazed to observe what the government has been willing to set up billions and tens of billions in all sorts of vague assignments, clouds. It is not hesitant to promise tens of billions of dollars of the climate system to produce, and 50 billion, at least as initial payments, in a city line that I would have thought must be revised in this situation. I do not talk about the fact that it seems that the city is not having its part in the agreement, and hence it would be unnecessary for the State to pay the ransom. Thus, many may be able to make better use of the funds and save as well as to reduce the budget on people and businesses and increase by doing so and, hopefully, to increase the income of the state. But there are not many signs of such a thing here, on the contrary, it is a traditional promotional bill. I hope to the highest. One minister wondered if there is anything that can be fixed. There's time. What we need is a bill that takes into account Icelandic reality as it is now, based on the view I think the highest. Ministers have, in fact, that simple tax systems and less laws are important weapons in improving the standard of living, increasing jobs, and increasing valuables in Iceland. It certainly does not do any good now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. In many ways, for example, there was a senator who had very fine input into the debate on the state's budget at this point. I'd like to briefly review tax increases and tax reductions. We have here one bill that deals with the centennial charges and taxes, which we usually haven't raised in the last few years in terms of prices. Thus, we have been seeing the tax base on these payments gradually being indulged. But I share my point of view that it is not possible that we will always put such fees to good use. When we what? A senator sat together in the government, and we cleaned up one year and put everything on zero. It is necessary to remember, when discussing the budget bill in relation to the bill that is especially on the program, that we have a number of other issues that will affect next year's tax reduction. I'm gonna allow myself to refer to the presentation of the budget bill on this. At the end of the year, we get the last steps in the loss of income tax, up to 14.3 billion. We also gain the first objective of the reduction of the bank tax of 1.7 billion, of transport tax deduction, of various measures due to Covid, including intensification of other bank tax initiatives, of 4.9 billion, of which tax payment was dropped, of the innsurrection tax dropped, of the increased reimbursement tax due to housing, car repairs, etc., many billions of them, besides all the other items that we have announced, the interest tax planned today, the capital tax that comes in later days, support for public citizens etc. [[The president calls.]] All of this will be 37.8 billion to tax doctors next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u61	Mr. President. It is true that the government has taken several measures for the economic hardships, in order to speak up as it is now taking place in the community. Some of these measures have turned into taxes, that's absolutely right, to create an extension of the work called everybody's work. It's a very positive project, but it shows exactly, and has shown over time, the benefits of reducing spells to increase employment and value production. The fact that the State has taken these measures, first after the collapse of the bank and then again, proved, in fact, teachings that I believe we at the highest. Ministers agree on, on the encouraging effects of a person's holding onto more of his valuable creation, and in the end he may even be more successful in reaching the State. Rather, you would think that this would be a change in the tax system now. On the one hand, it is a response to the situation, and it can be said that the crisis taught the government to reduce taxes, but you would have wanted it to further progress into a future tax policy. For the income tax, the highest. A minister mentioned, in part, is a positive step, but I felt that the government was leading a high mountain back into the programs when it was attacked to reimburse a three - step tax system just after the system was simplified and the steps dropped to two to achieve such a significant reduction in the specific income range. However, the main message is: Emergency action - it has been shown to some extent that such measures will take place in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u62	A respectable president. Yes, I can totally agree that we should have completed a tax reduction plan which we now rushed in this situation, as such. The bank tax. Of course, it is a little unusual for many to feel that the bank tax declines I have often recommended in a church hall with varying subsidies were not to be considered when the prospects for the funds were ideal. But when we're about to reach 260 billion squares next year, there's an agreement to reduce this tax. The importance of losing it has to do with the banks'work in order to maximise the likelihood that they will be involved with their clients, their companies, and their households. I'm just taking this discussion with great joy. I believe Iceland's IRS has been developing in the right direction, and it is very important to resist that it is fair and competitive and that it may increase the possibility of investment. We're going to bring a bill on an infernal tax policy for the investment of employment which would include a hurry-up or an increase in the possibility to put an end to investments over the next two years, like I'm seeing this, which hopefully can stimulate a very low investment in the economy. Otherwise, I have to say, I don't completely agree. A senator on the income tax system. On the one hand, he says that it has become discouraging. I think it was more encouraging, that was more discouraging. There the outcome is the taxprofen itself, and we've just reached it. Well, I'm sure it's discouraging, but I think we've been getting reforms on the system. And then we've been discussing this with the third tax step before. [[The president calls.]] Eventually, it draws into a tax burden line, and you're supposed to be looking at the peripheral effects. It is true that they are simpler and less involved in simple tax systems, but we are reaching others very important goals by the change that continues today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u63	V.E.G. President. Because it's the highest. Minister will be talking about the bank tax, I think it would be interesting to consider how well these taxes paid to consumers, which was now presented as a major reason for their reduction in taxes. In general, it sounds like the highest. A minister would like to do more of the positive things that have happened in recent years than something will hold him back in that regard. I offer the highest. Ministers, to accompany us to members of the Central Party when we may offer some suggestions on how to correct this and go further in that direction. There's no doubt a minister who wants to walk deep down. There will be practical suggestions for improving the company's management conditions, increasing jobs, increasing valuables, and improving public standard of living in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u64	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize government laws, No. 123/2015, found on deck. 6th This bill presents to the Allied Council proposal of provision for temporary purposes in two paragraphs lays on the total balance and the debt ratio of the government in 2023◯2005. With 1st. it is assumed that a minister is permitted, despite the regulations of sections 4, 5, and 7. law on government finances, turning aside from conditions for total balance and government debt in Article 7. In the year 2023/2025, in connection with the contributions of the Parliamentary resolution on financial policy and Congress resolutions on financial programmes that take up with them. The same is true in terms of the need for a review of financial policy for that year, according to Article 10. In this regard, it is warranted to remind you that during the resolution of financial policies by the Council of September 3, these same conditions have been turned aside for three years, in the course of 2020,2022, as permitted according to Article 10. The law of the law for the conditions that now exist in the economy caused by pandemic crown virus. This bill, as discussed here, shows that it looks as if the economic crisis caused by the viral epidemic was too difficult to believe that it would have been unrealistic to assume in the available financial programme for the 2021/2025 that public financial measures would be taken to the extent that the conditions would be met again at 2023. As I was referring to a discussion at the General financial programme, extrapolation shows that the consequences of the economic crisis caused by the Korean virus will be high and long lasting enough to result in a significant increase in budget survival period, in combination with a rapidly increasing debt ratio. Based on these trends, approximately 6% of GDP would have to be taken as sensitive to 2.5% in a single winter in 1923 if the law's financial law should return. It should be noted that such a reversal would require about 120 billion dollars. Maintenance arrangements in 2233 at today's prices The years that follow would need to continue with considerable restitution measures to meet the conditions of recovery over a period of five years. Thus, on the unchanged law on the absolute financial rules, it would have to go so fast and so hard that it could inhibit very economic growth and could disrupt overindulge the interests of households and businesses. This would detract from the economy and reduce government income, thereby delaying the restoration of public funds. As a result, I believe that if we both have economic arguments and baseline laws on public finances, it is necessary to replace the absolute financial laws over the three years that the law has established and the Council has already decided. This gives us more time to adapt to public finances to the consequences of this dramatic loss of long - term, spread the shock, provide more time to adapt our measures, and return to the rules once the economy has recovered. Of course, the necessary adjustment must be made to ensure that there can be a restoration of the complex financial rules at some time. This program suggests that it will be from 2026 C.E. I also feel that the same viewpoint applies to the situation of the government that receives the total election in the fall of 2021, i.e. This government will have to bring economic policy to five years at the beginning of a new election period, and financial programmes thereafter. Therefore, the bill suggests that the provision of the provisional principle will be prior to the end of the 2025 year to allow the next government's policy to have the same scope for adapting the state of public funds. In view of this temporary arrangement adopted by the bill, the government considers it important that a clear and realistic policy should be put to stop the increase in government debt as the proportion of land production remains over the end of the financial programme. Such policy has a clear support for the baseline law on public finances and is intended to become a guide to all decision making until financial regulations return. The primary objective of the programme, to stop any any later debt rise than in the final year of the budget, is the key to disrupting the cycle of recession and inflation in order to regain the support of the government's financial situation in the future. This will begin to restore the financial strength of the government. The important thing is that we make such a policy our own, while there is no value in the absolute financial code. A respectable president. With 2 mg. it is assumed that in the terms of the Council of Economic Affairs on the Council of Congress, laws allowing it to send the Allied Council to evaluate whether a declared financial objective will be established and their implementation will allow conditions in Article 7. restarting from 2026 C.E. I think it's the right approach, that instead of cutting off the rules and the debt rule, we'll just leave them there, we'll set a new goal I've been tracking, to stop the debt collection. And then the role of a financial body comes in the light of that new goal. By 13. The role of a financial body is to determine whether financial and financial policies follow the values listed in Article 6. and comprehensive financial rules according to conditions in Article 7. According to this bill, the Council will still be in charge of that role, and there is no reason to change it, to evaluate whether and how these interpretation laws fit the baseline laws during that period. On the other hand, where the bill suggests the exact conditions of Article 7. if they are temporarily turned aside, they will not be evaluated for a forward date between 2023 and 202025. Two. (b) What will be considered in the next article? This is because of the decision to determine whether the objective of the government for the state's financial sector is likely to be met and whether it will be successful again that the total financial order can be followed after five years. As mentioned earlier, this is one of the fundamental interests of this financial agenda. I have not seen much disagreement on the importance of the halting of debt in a more predictable future. I'm much more aware that our agreement is that over the past few years, we have strengthened the status of the state's budget by paying them back, we should continue to emphasize the importance of our financial resources being sustainable. I've been the opinion, and it was made clear, I hope, when financial rules were put in place at the time, that we Icelanders have to aim for a more rigid debt goal over time in our financial regulations than many other countries can afford, especially countries that live with large international coins and have their own currency, not to mention it. Our economy is thus composed of us as being more organized to greater fluctuations. But we can see that, for example. Today, the urgent feature of tourism has been in the economic development of the past few years, and a crisis in one of such basic measures can mean major economic trauma. This is evidence that we usually have rigid financial rules that enable good years to be used for preventive measures or to fill the barns when more difficult times come. This is my subject because it is, of course, related to policy plans on when we believe that the financial rules will return. I'm convinced that if we agree early enough to aim for a pitchless equation, i.e. that the initial equation will be positive at the end of the strategy period, and in this way the debt ratios to get worse, this is a very realistic goal. That's what I think the projections are doing very well. I've also been very frank about the fact that if we're going to make ends meet for years, we'll have to be more successful. if we are less prosperous in cultivating the economy, we are not permitted in itself to take much longer to stop the debt collection than this is assumed. I believe that tilting for a longer time is expected to be unjustified against future generations. We have no guarantee that there will be a growing economy forever. Although we will make a great effort to ensure that this will happen, we cannot afford to assume that future economic growth will forever compensate for the tilting of the coming years. These two things I'm going to mention specifically to support you because the main objective is to stop the debt collection at the end of the period and to get the opinion of financial advisers in the meantime on how our main project is going. There are many other things that I'm not going to go into, but here we are not living in a very deep bond market. The government cannot forever finance itself on a domestic market. By sensuous standards, the world is offering the risk of the greater credit rates of the state, and so on. We have no guarantee that in spite of much evidence, growth will remain low. There are multitudes of reasons why this should be our guide. It's all set up here and I believe that there can be good agreements that the financial Council will have this role while policy is this. We have some actions in the program that will help you reach these goals. We first show a huge counterweight effort to support the economy and provide a profit - raise interview. This is followed by an estimate of the maintenance phase required for the latter part of the period. We make this very clear what the scope of the maintenance measures will be if economic forecasts continue and other extrapolated items become as shown by the numbers, then maintenance points are needed in three, four, and five years of this strategy period of 37.5 billion. My personal opinion is that there are things we can do to increase the economic outlook, but there are other factors that we cannot deal with that other way. At present, it is clearly the effects of the virus that can work against us. The assessment of all these plans far into the future is not easy. Also, the role of financial advisers will not be simple. During this strategy period, however, the Commission's evaluations will be on a temporary basis in a different measure of success in the management of public funds. That's what this section of the bill is about. This will include a very important legal arrangement and a very important conversation with the council. I'm not going to have any further comments on how important I feel that financial rules will resume. I'm going to finish my case by saying that although we have on two occasions had to adopt the financial policy, and even though we now have to go away temporarily from the financial rule, we should continue to agree that such laws on public finance are important for a long time. There is nothing wrong with a secretary of finance who needs to come to the council and take special discussions and suggest a principle when circumstances arise. There is hardly any disagreement over the existence of an unseen, unique, vast situation. Still, there is reason to be concerned that there will be less important reasons in the future to follow an example of compromising rules. But then, at the council, there is a challenge. There should not be the use of the possibility of receiving an exception, temporary or permanent, from financial regulations to escape unpleasant but necessary measures; for it would be in my mind to fight the baseline laws. V.E.G. President. I have now studied the subject of this bill and suggest that it be referred to the Council's Committee of Staff and II. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Economic and financial secretary for the history here. He clearly declared what this bill involves, to depart longer than the three years from the financial rule with the intention of simultaneously stopping debt collection and that the rules return to 2026. I want to say here that I think it's very sensible. This too is responsible for politics and the future. But we also need to consider the sustainable factor, and I agree with the highest level. Minister that we do not send our account to future generations. But if we watch freezing, we can say in general that rules are important regardless of how winds blow and whether they are in the economy or in other areas. Then someone might say, " The rules are only when it's better, but not when it's a crisis. ' I think in this context it's very important, like the highest. The minister went over, saying that these years give financial counsel constant, balanced evaluation that the rules will return to 2026. But my question is about meditation, the highest. Minister on this aspect, keeping the rules in good health, not crisis, and asking for support in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u66	A respectable president. I believe that when we look at the rules of sliding, 2.5% of a unique year of financial law, they're built into a considerable amount of space to take down and dip. Then you may ask, " Is there sufficient space in the light of the rule of a five - year - long altruistic budget? ' whether the association of these rules together provides sufficient scope. A 2.5% limp is about 75 billion or so. If we've got 75 billion bucks. In a tilt, it is obvious that some time it will take to earn it. In five years, it is challenging to reach a baseless budget if people have tested the outer limits of the galactic order or gone all the way to 75 billion. This, however, is built into the law, that it is not in opposition to any primary objective that the state's funds take on a more aggressive, moving to a considerable degree. And when it doesn't work out, we'll have some options. A senator mentioned, temporarily decommissioning. It's a very special arrangement. I kind of think it's brilliant. If you plan to go beyond five years, which is the basic rule, it is simply assumed in the law. It takes nothing more than a conversation at the council and the decisions of the council, but it also takes discussion and a need to get financial advice. I think this is very good for democratic treatment and transparency under these circumstances. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u67	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a financial law. Business banks and savings play a key role in the economy by receiving loans, loans and the services of combustions. The state, the depositors, and the general public depend heavily on the careful discharge of business banks and savings. The following years have been discussed, both in the country and abroad, to build restrictions on business agencies and savings to operate risk investment banks in order to limit the risks of countries, clients and the public from such activities. In many countries, special measures have been taken to prevent such risks from gathering in the systems. This bill suggests that investment banks will be systematically important business banks and savings will be limited, but it allows them to continue providing economic useful investment services, such as business control and sales insurance. For more details, trade of a systematic important business bank and savings fund with financing and raws for their own accounts should not be so large that the financial need for them, according to the SEC criteria, will be more than 15% of the individual bank or savings account. A maximum of 15% of the banks that fall under the bill should not be disturbed by the current activity but would limit the growth of their high-risk investment banking activities to the future. Anion Banki Corp, Iceland Bank Corp. and Landsbann Corp. has been defined systematicly and so falls under the bill, but no savings is now considered systematically important. Here, the story could be traced a little further, but I'm not going to do it in any detail. But we, who have observed the discussion on these matters, know that it begins in earnest with the collapse of financial companies in 2009. Because of the situation that occurred at that time, it was a high test of deposit, and as you can see from the General's research report, it was clear that clients had taken risks far beyond what was acceptable. This risk ended by not having the resources to live up to debts, having no cash available to pay, and making major arrangements to put the depositors under cover, which ended in an international dispute because of local banks in the branches of the Icelandic banks. From this point on, there was a debate about the need to make a complete separation between this function, i.e. Business and financial, and there have been ideas here at the council. A few years ago, we put these opinions into a special group of work, which included them and called for viewpoints. As a result, there were ideas that included. were covered in a white book, which the government had in this ideal period, and on the basis of all that work, and on the basis of a bill placed here at the previous council, which included. And it came to pass, as this matter hath come to pass. There's been an opinion here, e.g. about 15% of the maximum. These views have been discussed in this regard as to the need for the situation as it is today. I don't think so. I believe we should use the time we are now, when we are quite far from those thresholds, to set the rules so that everyone knows where the line is for the long future. But everyone can be sure that if you are heading for more than 15%, it would be much more difficult for you to step into that position when it is up. Other information that has been heard in this issue is whether to draw the ring about a systematicly important bank or whether the rule should be general. These are different viewpoints, but this is where the line is drawn. A respectable president. I believe that with this bill approved, one of the main proposals of the White Book would be carried out, which describes a vision for the financial system. I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u68	Mr. President. This may not be very effective. I'm here primarily to celebrate this bill and thank the highest. Minister for. I am glad to see the immediate fulfillment of the promises made in the last white book, won in the time of that government. The case has a long history here, like the highest. A minister took a little off. In fact, we spoke of full separation, members of Congress of the left movement, right up from the turn of the century, and thus stayed awake in the years before collapse. We have been more successful and have become more involved, for it may have been a little more successful when the banks collapsed. Similarly, this work was done considerably in memory as secretary of finance and later economic ministers in 2009 and 22013. A team of experts, who were Jón Sigurðsson, former secretary and general, and bank manager, gave them proposals, and this was among the costs drawn, that, instead of measuring for full separation, there was a limit to how much of the work of a public bank that had borrowed from the public, could be in investment banking. I'm just saying for my part that I'm okay with this, and I agree completely with the highest. Minister. It is very urgent to install this roof, to build this fence now before it starts testing. Finally, I might ask, as is the case of wear and tear, about the payment or discontinuation of financial institutions: Will it not remain that there can also be a way to break up this type of company, financial companies, through the mixed business banking campaigns, can be cut off in the nest?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u69	A respectable president. Thank you very much for handling this matter. I might also have mentioned that, as a boy. A senator came in here at the end, of course, we have, in great measure, changed the law on these activities and built in, for example, new financial requirements and are now demanding financial companies to report some kind of status reports regularly to the FEC. A vacancy was recently advertised in the Penitentiary Bank, and we are about to start building up the return fund, which is then independent next to the deposit insurance. In all this context, it is very remarkable to see how European legislation developed in the years following a collapse, i.e. By the way, the Icelandic route was actually gone. This means that money companies are allowed to cut down and cut apart the body and cut apart, transfer their assets from the old bank to new, and even goes so far as to get on things that we had to make long and complex agreements with the demands, about how to treat valuable possessions that would increase time in the new banking system. All of this would have to be negotiated with the old demands. In fact, the new European Regulation presents a complex process, although well-published legally, and assumes that in the event of a disaster, property can be taken out of place and placed upon the benefits of the old demands, if the value of property grows much in the new bank. I believe the answer to the question of the new principle is: Yes, it is possible, and really there is a considerable amount of time to do just that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u70	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers and it's good to know that legislation has developed in this way as well as the European rights. Of course, I think we have, in our emergency defense at the time, found our way exactly the right way, to set aside priorities, and to have them there, and then that way is able and legal, to save what needs to be saved, especially when a business bank with the public goes down, into some new environment, and receive property. In addition, there are always prices to find. We needed more than an answer from a talk period to have a good time with that story all along. It was no small task to figure it out. But everything went well in the end. I admit I haven't followed this exactly as before or been on my toes with this last impression. But I always liked what was mentioned there as early as 2012 and 2013, that it would also be possible to have, in effect, an accounting separation in one of the reconstituted banks that would cause trouble in the wearing off investments. Of course, it's all about the absence of adverse risks in public interest, local public, financial companies. If it's to allow them over their heads to have some other business, investment business, promotion, I find it very pleasant to think that there's only a certain proportion of the bank, and then there's a way to separate it and make it so that the interests of an individual are in front of others. There must then be others who take the offense, while those in good faith deposit their savings in a bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-08-6.u71	A respectable president. It was even there. Install one of the basics of the new rule order, which is the priority of the holdings. This was an Icelandic way, one of the words of the Icelandic method, which was, of course, controversial. When the banks were borrowing, tenants had been given legal opinion, especially after receiving Icelandic lawyers'opinion of where they were in the order of testing. It was all written out. But then the collapse changed the Order of the World Council, and, of course, people wanted to test it. But it all worked out because there was a public interest, and now it's just a new reality. It's just become the new European principle that if a bank goes so badly, you get the priorities. This has meaning in the context of the topic under discussion. But I still feel that it is important to go where such fences are called, even though such barriers have already been built into our systems. We have even gone so far that we hide funds to a degree that we constantly have a plan on what to do and how to deal with the control, if the bank hits. In almost every case, financial companies should constantly have an updated plan for their funeral if it is tried.
