ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u1	The President would like to announce the following change to the General Work Programme, adopted at a meeting of the Presidency Committee, and discussed at a meeting with the heads of Congress this morning, with Thursday, February 27th, not Thursday. There has been a request from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs that a prior discussion of financial matters for the years 2021 52025 takes place several days later than the General Work Programme is expected, or on March 30 and 31 of March 24 and 25.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u2	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 710 for the publication of international contracts, and for the inquiry. 508, for military propaganda, both of Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son, and for a question on the subject. 788, of the committee, staff and management groups, of the Lord Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u3	To answer, prime minister, financial and economic minister, health minister, education and cultural minister, travel, industrial and innovation minister, marine and agricultural ministers, environmental and resource ministers and Justice ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u4	Less than two weeks ago, the Riotto website, which runs the aluminium in Straumsvík, is a very mysterious threat. It quotes the president of Rio Tinto, who stands at the door to close the plant because of its high power prices in Iceland. It should be noted that in 2017, the president of Rio Tinto did not mention a single word about the price paid by the company to buy acid for itself or 14 billion remuneration, a world - marketed force similar to that of today. A temporary negative impact on the economy would be the closure of the plant, but it would mainly take a short period of time from its workers. It has been claimed by the authors of aluminium and Sampower that energy prices for industry in Iceland are at best averaged, but the same people have repeatedly felt that confidence in electrical prices is needed in which the energy companies in Iceland compete with other markets for drawing to themselves big business. There is a dispute and is lording, in the power of imperfect information on the market. Any lack of information is involved in such a cover-up? Hörður Arnarson, director of Land activation, has formally requested that the Rio Tinto be removed from the nuclear prices contracts to the studio. If it is important to make public talk about electrical prices and its formation. So I ask the highest. Minister if he will exert himself for the public use of electrical power prices for national activation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u5	Mr. President. First, just to mention it, the executives told the company that it was one of the possibilities of shutting it down. But you're right, I read yesterday that the president of the Continent or Civilization had formally requested that confidentiality be lifted from the contract. I've said it before, and I'm glad to say it here that I've felt that there was a lack of transparency in these matters. It makes it difficult for anyone who wants to participate in a more objective discussion based on fact to make it difficult for. Since there is much trouble, those who have this information are committed and therefore cannot even say what they know. I think it would be good for a discussion in Iceland to see that there was more transparency in these matters. One is that the power prices are displayed. Other factors are included in these agreements because there are also other factors in those who can significantly affect the competitiveness of these enterprises as compared to other countries. I would be delighted if they came to the conclusion that they would publish either the whole contract or the key elements to be discussed. I cannot, in my own strength, demand that there be an end to this business agreement between two parties. But now the matter is in this process, and it's gonna be interesting to hear about the company's reaction. As Hörður Arnarson mentioned yesterday, it has become an old contract that commercial factors are less effective at today's publication. There may be a difference between publishing a contract that is six months old or years old to other treaties that are being planned. But I would be delighted if we agreed to discuss these matters from the facts and the facts were published so that anyone who wants to participate in a more objective discussion, based on facts, can do so, and I am among them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u6	President. Thank you very much. Ministers will answer and welcome these reactions, but they will also be asked, too, because I didn't quite think it would be clear whether a minister will apply himself to it in any way. I hear the Minister agree with the words of the Director-in-Long, which is very good, but will the minister employ himself in some way? In the years that follow, more electrical agreements will be revised and even developed to some new ones, and there are opportunities to greatly increase the transparency of the electrical power market by refusing to sign contracts containing the confidentiality of electricity prices. I'm asking whose position it is. A minister is the key to making electricity prices in Iceland totally public in the future and is applying himself to it in the present.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u7	Mr. President. I mentioned earlier that I could, in my strength, make no claim that the contract will be published or this price, at least. not like today's rule, because it's a deal between two parties on the market. I've said it publicly several times that I want to see more transparency, and that's why I've been so happy that these companies, all the way in the media, are open to it, and now we know that this request has been formally sent. We were prior to an independent assessment of the competitiveness of energy-rich industrial activity in Iceland where the company they work receives direct information from these companies and this applies not just to Rio Tinto but to other companies in a major industry here. It will also shed further light on real status, what evolution has been, and what the situation is here in Iceland. All I know about the future is that the power market will change considerably. We're here to not even have an active power market here. If it were, we too would see more transparency in the way the cost comes into existence and how it affects them. So I hope that no matter how he develops, he will develop toward more transparency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u8	A respectable president. I choose to direct this inquiry to the prime minister as the head of the national vessel, as chairman of the National Security Council, and as our representative in the National Security Council. True, this inquiry, as indicated by the nature of the case, may also be heard by some other minister. This request is in my mind about cases of death, about the so - called crown virus. Now we see in Italy, it's just starting to spread, in Northern Italy. Johns Hopkins University, U.S.A., regularly increases the number of registered infections and their spread throughout the world as well as death, only during the short time we had. A senator held a congregation meeting today at about 1 p.m., 15 new ones had been registered in Italy. The virus has arrived in Europe, quite clearly. Now a nice DCologist has twice appeared on Caslight Factors and expressed himself there that it is not the question of whether or not this virus will come to us, unfortunately. I know they're building here on a number of preventative measures. But I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to what are being done to try to prevent the virus being passed to the land, whether or not the procedures around us, the bars and the borders, and the like, should not apply to us as well, or whether we are just waiting on the sideline to see if we're not going to leave because we're so special. I'll bring you some more later, tops. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for asking about this matter that it will direct to me as the chairman of the National Security Council. The case has been taken up at the National Security Council at a meeting held by a psychiatrist and a public security officer from the State Marshal's Department. Well, then it's got the highest. Health Ministers keep the government informed about the situation and are very closely monitored. Already the procedure has been made to ensure that patients in the Land Hospital can be separated from the reception so that there is a special introduction to those who might be diagnosed with this virus and that they do not pass through the general entrance to the emergency room, so immediate intervention is taken. Since then, there have been efforts to sharpen national equipment and to collect information on everything that health institutions are doing. Similarly, there is continued action on international and international airports. There's a lot of information for passengers to come to the country. There's a lot of information for the public and professional life too. They are working on a facility for isolation or for the isolation of individuals who do not live in the country, so that it is guaranteed. Health agencies and receivers have been working and reviewing their communication schedules, reviewing facilities, protective equipment, and equipment so that all reactants are on the toe. There has been a meeting not only with the Council of Justice and National Security but also with the Surgeons supporting the current risk assessment and current measures. But it's perfectly clear, like a snooze. A senator points out that the spread that has now been identified in Northern Italy has called for great action by the government in that country. It will be discussed at European level. European countries have followed their assessment of the status of the spread, e.g. In terms of border protection and other matters, it will be considered, I know, in that field.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I wondered, " How in the world are we supposed to know if we're infected and to contact someone? ' At least that's not true. known that we can walk with this virus and be contagious for up to two weeks without experiencing any symptoms. The request is followed not only by the terrible news received from Northern Italy but only by going to IKEA yesterday, just by being inside thousands of people and as soon as some sneeze occurs, people are running in every direction. We're already on guard, Mr. Honorable President. How could we possibly contact someone and say, "I might have something? How are we to avoid this when we're here to take a minimum of 30,000 tourists a week? I think we're extremely vulnerable. I wanted to know what is being done to prevent this virus being passed on to the country rather than to be protected when we don't know how much it will already be and if it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u11	President. Of course, in such matters, it is important that we rely on practical methods that have worked and given well. This has been taken care of both by the National Security Council, by my special meetings, by a disease - control doctor as well as by the government meetings, and by the best - paying general prevention and the most advanced methods. Although it sounds dull to encourage people to wash their hands and not be coughing in all directions in IKEA, like a whale. A senator describes it here, and then we must look to what has given us a good opportunity in previous traveling elders, who have walked over the inhabited earth. The nations have tried a number of methods, to build screens on international airports and other factors that did not prevent the spread of viral infections. So when we are making decisions for a step, we must base on the data and research we have. I can assure you what. A senator and all else. Our members, whether in the Federal Police Department, Health Organization, or the Center for Disease Control, certainly take the position twice a day on the spread of the virus so that we can best react to it and try to curb its spread here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u12	Mr. President. I'll direct you to the highest level. The secretary of finance and economics following his answer to a written request on the authority of the heads of state to raise the pension of employees submitted by the governor's decision and is more specific. Thank you, of course, the highest. Minister for the answer, very thorough and useful. From the minister's response, it is suggested that when he increased the pension rights of his seven underpriests by an average 48%, the increase in pension rights will cost the taxpayers 360 million. K. Looks like the answer suggests that this decision will or may increase the pension rights of 59 policemen by 55% and the taxpayers cost 1,910 million, which is the number in the answer. I'm going to ask the highest. A minister will see if he can explain further how it can be possible for the heads of state to have the authority to change the composition of his employees' wages for the sole purpose of raising their pension. On the one hand: The Ministry has asked how many of the government's employees have regular overtime in a manner similar to U.S. Marshal's Chiefs Department officials, and what the cost would be if all these payments were added to their fixed pay? Finally: Has a minister thought about whether there is a reason to limit the rights of government institutions to establish billions of dollars of commitments in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u13	A respectable president. First, I'd like to celebrate the debate on the Penitentiary commitments that are often overlooked in all public debates about public employees, and little attention has been given to its impact on future life commitments in general. In this case, our opinion at the Ministry of Economic Affairs is that humans have been within the authority to make the changes in the remunerations discussed in the answer. Hv. A senator claims that it was here for this one purpose. I don't mean to tell myself anything about it, but it's true that changes in terms can have a very significant impact on pension commitment, and in general, they're way too far back in all our discussions. We've made an effort to settle an older pension commitment, but we still have a long way to go by completing it. The question is, Is such a source normal? We are in general working with a central labour agreement and a post-supposed organisation to export it within the frameworks of the agreements. Here, people have concluded that in this particular office, they have the authority to complete this contract. It's just that every time it's worth it. We haven't had the calculation of the type asked for, i.e. what the cost would be if this were to exceed all other government employees in a similar position.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u14	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. From his answer, it will be considered that in any way it may be viewed as an open crisis of state funds through such decisions by the heads of state, with the consequences of a minister's response, that individual rulers can make decisions that will have consequences that run at hundreds of millions, not to mention billions of people as mentioned in the reply of the highest court. Minister. Of course, I must ask a minister if he doesn't think there's any reason to look for a route, but he says in his answer to turn this tap off. At the same time, I must ask if the Minister is not concerned with the euphoric discrimination in the national pensions that are revealed in his response to my inquiry, since large groups of public servants have the visible option of improving their pensions, which responds to hundreds of thousands per month while the income of those who trust in the social security and pensions is reduced for every centenarian they may fall into an additional shot, such as for work or sale at an old summer house, so to speak. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u15	A respectable president. No, I can't say we're here with a completely open tap. We are in part dealing with certain past problems. We have more than one system of pension rights going on today. With the NRR, we wanted to take up a new arrangement. In recent years, basic changes in the pension rights process have been accomplished by our in effect violating our Kingdom responsibilities. So it's far from where we're here with an open stack for all the rulers. On the other hand, there are high - quality rights and such changes in employment may have, over the long life span of those involved, an enormous amount of accumulated cost if it is now respected. I just want to thank you. A senator for bringing this up because it is our common interest to realize this and to keep commitments from building up to the future that we do not realize or are not available to publish without supervision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to have a little place of words at the top. Environment Minister for Black Oil. Last week, a meeting in London by the International Chesalm Institute, IMO, was conducted on the ban on black oil in the north, i.e. North of the Arctic Circle. This is both a prohibition on transporting black oil and the use of black oil as fuel. IMO has already approved such a ban on the southern seas, south of 66 degrees. It has been stated by the EEA that in order to ban black oil within a 200-mile economic law in Iceland, IMO will be approved, and it will also be expressed in answer to the highest degree. Transporter for asking why. paritaprevir The Brazilians of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, speaking of the need for IMO's approval, are turning for a complete ban on black oil. Now it was held last week at the IMO's meeting on these matters, and I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. Environment Minister, if anything has occurred at a meeting that gives reason for optimism, gives us the urge to get rid of the black oil disaster of the Icelandic financial law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u17	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for recording this important matter, which I know, is very important to both of us. When we discuss black oil, it is the subject of what the International Seminar Institute was discussing at the meeting the senator instituted, which is actually what the government has done and can do. I don't have the exact details of the meeting, but of course they can be arranged for. A senator will follow. But maybe it doesn't matter what we've done here at home. During the past year, the value of a new Regulation that I signed in November or December stated that in our economic legal history, the sulphur content of ship oil is being transferred to 0.5% in accordance with the international recommendations and decisions made by the International Council. However, Iceland and I went further with this Regulation when it comes to areas within 12 miles and moved to 0.1%. What does that mean? This means that the use of black oil is actually banned unless there is a cleaning of ships in place of equipment. I mean, we've taken a very big step when it comes to dealing with this situation right now in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, eager to find out what happened at this meeting and whether we don't aim to prevent further traffic vessels driven by black oil. Black oil is a terrible mess. It must be said at the moment. There are waste particles that free the fires of black oil that cause ice and ice to melt and that make it seem hard to forget the pollution of the air as well as to forget what could happen if a ship's spills into the water with the unpredictable consequences to our resources. I'd like to ask the Minister for the rest of this whether it's not expected that if IMO gives the green light, the government will be in full command against black oil within 200 miles.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u19	V.E.G. President. As it turned out in my previous reply, the natural world has taken a very large step in the direction of the dog. A senator mentions. We will, of course, be very careful on what comes from the International Correspondence Agency in these matters, and if it goes beyond the Icelandic government, we will, of course, take that into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u20	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to say to the highest. The head of the marine road and agricultural minister was given a bill recently proposed by the government's consultation with members in the marine road. Of course, there has been a lot of discussion about the large contribution of property in the marine ecosystem, where in a few years, ten of the largest companies and related enterprises, which could at least be considered related to parties, have been considered to be related to them. A substantial share of property in each other, more than 60% of hunting clearances, and 25 of the largest companies, together with those members that could be considered related to parties, at least the public would consider these companies to be linked parties, have over 80% of the markets. However, it has to be said when the bill falls to the highest level. Ministers are read that they prefer a test reading of available laws. There are some changes in places and pixels, but there is really no material change in what is considered to be linked and what is not, and it does not see that this bill is taking any steps to deal with the discussion or the problems that have been associated. It is, therefore, the closest thing to asking. Minister if he is pleased with this test lecture or if there is any greater ambition in this case when the bill is due here for the Council. Of course, this link is inevitable when we watch e.g. In order to ensure that in recorded enterprises the share is estimated to be the cut-off of the enterprises, where they are considered to be the dominant member of the enterprise, that they should submit overexchanges to other shareholders. We still base on the archaic thought that an enterprise needs to have more part in another enterprise to think that it needs to be controlled and that nothing is to be changed there in these bill articles. Tells you the highest. Ministers it is acceptable that the ten companies with more than 60% of the sources can also have 49% in one another?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u21	A respectable president. So it is to answer that the bill is and has been taken in consultation and is the product of the work of a project administration designed to deal with the serious or significant comments made in a report by the National Research Centre. On the basis of the comments made there, this project management was organized. Yes, I'm happy with the work of the project. She's appointed a former state accountant, one government official, one local government agent, and a lawyer and a federal expert at the Ministry. A report by the People's Review stated that the main projects and subjects of the Fish Room were trying to get a realistic explanation of these terms, linked with parties, and actual authority. They've been considering this for ten years, and it's never been addressed until now an attempt to explain these two basic ideas is made. Then you start to talk about whether you're going to be more ambitious, etc. Instead of immediately starting the discussion, let's discuss the proposal of the project management, and I will now acknowledge that it is followed in the bill of consultation. And, yes, I appreciate that there was a solid agreement in the project management on the explanation they are trying to give to linked sources and real authority. In case of a moment. A senator has another approach, it's just coming out, it's fine, and I'll be glad to listen for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u22	Mr. President. Of course, it is the purpose of the government, with the above legal advice, to bring up a discussion of the proposals and bills that governments offer. That's even. they can be discussed here in this area because we have to wait long enough for the government to have a case before the council anyway, so it's good to look only at what is involved. Most of them don't seem to go any further. It is truly wonderful to see this ambitious spirit. It is certainly true that there is some technical explanation that is important, and it is sharpened in the role of a fish lab that is important. But there is no change in what appears to be related today. This is at best a test reading of current regulations. I don't think it's very ambitious, and that's why it's sort of more surprising that it's supposed to take a six-year lead-in period for a company to adapt to changes that are not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u23	A respectable president. Right away. A senator complains that companies may be given a six-year lead-in period of adaptation to their changing circumstances I remember him on the bill he gave along with more companies who allow up to 20 years of time to adapt to the changes proposed. It depends only on how humans feel about such time limits mentioned here, and it is certainly a subject for discussion, and it is likely to be approached in other ways. But I find it somewhat Spanish to see, or to my ears if it could be said so, to complain that the matter is late being presented in this regard. We wanted to speed up our work on this matter because this is the main assessment, in the light of inexplicable concepts and their use, the problem hidden from our surveillance agencies, the Fish Room, to evaluate whether a company is under or above the limit of both the catch sector and the labour market. The main problem has lay low, causing people to be quick to look for explanations and to explain the basic ideas that give us the opportunity to discuss with some sense of reason the limit to the limit and limit set into the fishing system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u24	Mr. President. There's a lot of snarl in the Southnes these days. Actually, Southnesa and I are tired of government apathy and the limited service of the State, especially in the health institution. It is, in fact, incomprehensible the type of work being carried out when spending money to health institutions. For example, the population of the southernnes has not been taken into account, which has increased by nearly 7,000 since 2013, which is the same number of people living on the West. There has not been any consideration for the increase in the government's donations to the Southnes. Einarsson, councilman of the city of Rhojanestown, wrote an article on this situation in Viking News of the Days. That's where he says, by permission of a president: ▪ Our Southnesias have recently suffered the cuts of Southnes'hospitals, and the people have made search for service into the capital area. It is almost impossible to have time at the HSS during illness unless you are looking for extra hours and are thrilled to wait long for twice the price. Then the people of Southnes have not had a family doctor for many years. In the capital area, approximately 230,000 people, and they have 19 operating clinics. That means there are over 12,000 people in each clinic. In the South, however, there are about 28,000 people, and there is only one clinic, and there are countless passengers who come to the country and have to look to the HSS for service. How are you planning to go to the top? Health Ministers respond to Southnes'demand for new health care needs and to take into account population and population composition when deciding for the ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this important inquiry. Of course, we have been in great contact with the Southnes throughout my time in office, and we observe very carefully all the changes that will take place there. Therefore, it is to say that it is the right thing to ask at any time. The senator said that population growth has been considerable, or about 25%, on that date. Ten years, however, the main growth has occurred in the past three years. Southern Health Organization's budget has increased by 22% in 2014-2020. In my time, we have looked particularly at special provisions that have been provided to strengthen home nursing, for temporary support. We have made a special contribution to support the health care sector and special funding to support the Agency as a result of the fall of WOW a year. Of course, it was a very important contribution to promote both health care and other services. Because of this, the surgeon general has made a report on the health care of Southnes. A senator specifically asks about her. There we are, in effect, a new follow-up report, which has drawn much more frequent, i.e. in the quality of their service. There's been quality inputs, teamwork has been improved, doctors and nurses have improved, and at present all nurse positions are fully developed. This is shown in a report of the office. Also, there has been some progress in improving psychologists, the increase in standard values, and the need to improve mental - health status even more. But I'm very aware of that as a matter of course. A senator mentions health care issues and the potential need to add health care in this area. I think that's a good point to consider, but the main thing is that the quality of the ministry is adequate for the people of Southnes like the rest of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u26	Mr. President. V.E.G. One minister says that something has been done and that it can be corrected. But that is not enough. It is so crystal clear, however, that the Southnes cannot tolerate this situation. Some 2,000 Southnesjams have a family physician in the capital area and are actually driven to that position. The government pays with these Southnes to relevant clinics, but lack of funds causes the ministry to be difficult to obtain in the country. The Southnes get the lowest contribution per citizen to health care. A surgeon's public health officials show that there is no greater need for health care in this country than does every nation in South Africa. It's the highest. Ministers do not agree that the sleeves need to be boarded and tied so that the Southnes are sitting at least with the same table as the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u27	A respectable president. It has not been observed in this discussion, but elsewhere it has been found that it is now a test drive, so to speak, a payment model for health care in the country. We have some experience here in the capital area that a specific financing model is being run to adjust the cost of health care according to population composition and population population. We have made a decision at the Department of Health for the problem of shadowing a new model this year, and we have followed it carefully from one month to the next, thus reflecting the real need for financing. We can't say that Iceland's country is one thing, i.e. That the vests and the Southnes are the same. Therefore, we want to adjust this to make special formulations, such as in the Southnes, some of which are different from those in other parts of the country, reflect on the funding of health care. To me, it is extremely important for urban development, structure, and standard of living in Southnes that health care is there at best.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u28	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. A minister for responding rapidly to the request for this discussion is very urgent and quite clear that during the past few months, there have been severe weather clouds in the economy and still cannot see the end of this trend, unfortunately. We see that companies, especially at the general labour market, have been reducing the number of employees to a length of almost unsolved years, and nearly 8,000 and 10,000 people have lost their jobs over a period of 12 months. In a recent survey of professional drivers, more than one third of the companies have already taken notice, including in relation to recently created labour agreements. I'm afraid there's no one to control this. Travel services have been in a lot of dances the last few months. We've seen catastrophic developments in the operation of major industrial companies in this country. We can see that assent sales and concrete-enforcement sales are drawing together very quickly, suggesting that the scope of the construction industry is greatly reduced through this winter, especially during that winter. All of this is the work of many people, and it is clear that they can have serious consequences for the economy as a whole and especially for the survival and management of the public funds if these developments continue to exist. Of course, this is not supposed to come to the highest level. It's a surprise to the government. It has repeatedly been warned that during the past two years, it has gone too far too optimistic about economic developments. It may be said that it marked the discussion of all the budgets and financial plans of the current government since then and not only on the side of the government position but also on the side of a number of commercial interests that have pointed out that the existing economic forecasts are too optimistic, have no support for routine economic development in Iceland. Of course, it is part of the problem that the European economy is one of the most swinging economic systems in the Western world. It means that it is extremely difficult for us to organize ourselves in such rapid fluctuations, and it must be a long - term subject we have to deal with. We need to wonder why it's going so bad to build a powerful sceptre and technology company. In this context, it can be noted that the export of these enterprises has little or nothing different in the past decade. But the short-term subject is how the government intends to respond in order to stimulate the economy. As noted, including. In fine articles written on this development, Gylfi Zoëga suggests that we will not be rescued from the download or resolution that has passed over the Icelandic economy of some foreign element; on the contrary, there is the very possibility that we could be seeing a long - term deterioration. While predicting a strong or tough downturn, it may take a long time for the job to work out of the position and, in part, to be explained by the competitive status of the Icelandic industry, including due to the granting of the Icelandic crown to very high remunerations at home. There is also a concern about the workforce and the ongoing conflict, an even greater concern in this regard. It's interesting to hear, and indeed we've got to hear it only from the highest. Minister of Education, I don't know if the economics have been added to that department, the ideas of increasing investment on the part of the government. As soon as the inquiry was submitted some time ago, I ask the highest. Financial Minister: Does the government take special measures because of the rapid worsening of economic developments? And in view of the fact that it has already been shined, on the part of the highest. The minister of finance and prime minister, for such action, asks me if they have been further developed and where they will be hidden. Does the government consider an increase in the scope of public projects and/or speed them up, and in what ways? The government's opinion somehow reduces the taxes on employment, e.g. with further reductions in insurance costs and/or speed plans for bank tax declines? Both taxes have been highly criticized recently, and especially the bank tax, which may include the tax. reports that the Netherlands Bank has grown to nothing to its business life. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u29	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to discuss these matters at the council, but we see that economic forecasts are developing in a worse way than we had hoped. How vital that we read just in the storm clouds! A senator here mentioned specifically. Clearly, it is one of the main business of the government in making financial plans to ensure that next year we are entering the wave. In a sense, we have already begun to react to the fact that we had come to the end of this powerful economic growth. In recent years, we have been able to see a change in standard of living. The level of pay has increased by 40% in ten years, and we have used good years to benefit from more than one year, and we certainly benefit today. There's a lot of things going on around here. It is vital to recognize that we cannot get everything at the same time; the highest wage, the highest level of money available within OECD, the last working week, and the exceptional investment environment for employment. Somewhere, these things must be weighed on. What we're seeing right now is getting worse. We see that it reduces the investment of employment, and we have reason to be very concerned about it. We need to respond correctly, and we simply need to take an honest discussion about the consequences of adjusting our country's pay levels too high and to what extent the changes we see in economic forecasts are the consequences of what we have been doing in recent years. It is claimed that the government was too optimistic about the economy. I've said many times that we simply base on public prognostications, and it's actually possible to say that those who criticize the economic forecasts are criticizing those who are at their posts. I have felt this way, and I still believe that the government is no more than to base on public economic forecasts, but then we have to weigh what balance and caution are being done with long-term programmes. But to answer this particular question, whether the government intends to take special measures because of changing economic developments in Iceland, the answer is obviously yes. Obviously, this is one of the main factors of the work we are now in dealing with these situations, and it is important that humans bear in mind that we need to respond to the fact that the government's income is yielding. Therefore, we need to improve when it comes to making more money in public business, doing better, getting more of it, and promoting a plan that shows that we are going to live up to what the Kingdom is already doing. Besides, we are interested in raising the financial investment levels of public funds, where we look at these long - term plans, which include: is available here at the council, on special projects throughout the country. We look at all the aspects of transportation, communications, and other aspects of important health issues such as health, innovation, education, etc. Of course, these and their individual arrangements will ultimately be determined by a conversation here with the council. Whether we are going to speed up public projects is asked, and the answer is that there is one of the main approaches for this project to find ways to speed up what we have been carrying in the pipes, including in a transport program. The important thing here is that we find trustworthy ways to finance such acceleration. I think it's time for people to slow down the government payment because we're already in a corner. In the years to come, we are in no position to have a grand payment on the debt of the State. In fact, we have already had more success in paying up debt than we could support. But I would much rather ask men to start worrying about how we're going to finance the palace than for us to be so busy that we get out of debt. There is no particular concern in the present situation. And as for the taxes, they'll continue to be considered, but it's reasonable to say that I had to double up before the council to get it approved. [[The president calls.]] Happily, though, it has been approved, and the insurance price continues to decline by the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u30	President. When we met at the end of the year, the members of the Central Party pointed out the importance of dealing with economic developments and also the problems of smaller companies, which had become obvious and discussed. to speed up the decline of insurance costs andinvestment. We also pointed to the latest budget, as well as the last one, that the government's plans brought too much economic optimism. Of course, you're right. Secretary of finance says that the government has no choice but to look to formal predictions, but the government should be prepared, for the sake of that forecast, especially when there is evidence that this is likely to be the case. But there has been a great need for the government to have a plan to deal with if formal predictions fail. In this context, we also pointed out the importance of taking advantage of the opportunity to slow down. The answer was always from the highest. Secretary of finance: Well, there is nothing increasing proportion, as national production increases that much more. But what is so true when land production stops growing and actually contracts? Well, then it's all coming to mind. Then the booth increases the faster and the harder it gets. Thus, there has been a great lack of preparation on the part of the government to cope with the swings it could expect, no matter what the official predictions it had in mind. Now the situation calls for increased investments and measures, such as a faster reduction in insurance costs. But if it had been better, and there was no reason to give up on slowing down the booth, then space would also be more likely to react when economic goals fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u31	Mr. President. It is important to talk about the economic situation. I'll agree with the highest. The secretary of the budget who speaks of the government's main concern in playing with the wave, and we have operations and financial policies that deal with the situation in the economy at one time. V.E.G. Minister went over that the government will and will take action because of the cooling of the economy. There are a few things that I think are important in the way they are done and with which eyeglasses go into action. In these circumstances, I think it is very important to look at how the cooling of the economy affects different groups, and it is at this very point that it is important to protect the social system and those who are already in a more sensitive position, that it will not be worse. It is also important to take steps to stimulate employment, to look out for different ways in which actions may affect men and women. No further action should be taken to allow the long - term growth of the long - term noncooperative activity of another sex. But we have a worldwide example of such action, so all of this needs to be kept in mind. And then, because of his words, to cut down the booth as a boy. The last senator has spoken of; the booth is public. The booth is our company. That is exactly what needs to be strong when the economy is getting cold.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u32	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister spoke of the need to build predictions, but before long there can be no warnings from a number of sources, including the opposition, and the storm clouds will rise, but the storm clouds will continue to run in full force. Now we are faced with the situation that we have warned of, and we must take the down cycle by attacking the infrastructure and, of course, being busy. Even in the historical development of the past few years, the infrastructure was submerged, and at the same time, it was given directly after, in contrast with the unnecessary, large, and important income stocks. A minister spoke about it earlier, and as a result, we simply face a much more complex task. We both need to act on these necessary structures in order to counter the cooling economy, but we also need to protect the welfare of the common people. This makes a big difference in how investments will be undertaken and how they will be financed. The government has suggested that it will be financed by banks, even at a time when it is clear that we will have little for them, and the public is not interested in it. Of course, it would be wise now to take advantage of favorable circumstances and borrow. Opportunities involve this project, and we also need to look at immaterial things and support the education system, innovation, research, and development, and most important of all, in these last days, show that we may have to consider investing in the people of the country and defending the people who are inclined to compromise the economy that lies ahead of us and that will be a difficult task.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u33	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for this discussion about the economic situation and the coldness we watch in the economy as well as thank you for the highest inputs. Financial and economic ministers. It has been well explained what we are facing and the contrast that we face in our export roads, whether the tourism, the aluminium industry, or the fishing road, and a failure. Then I feel that it is important to remember a few things. Less than a year ago, the government transformed its economic policy and built an uncertainty gap into its policy, which is 0.8% of GDP, which, under such circumstances, can allow space to reach a range of 2,925 billion squares, with government spending on automatic work. But then we're watching the whole state business. If we look at the situation now by means of a special campaign, we must also look at this in connection with the government's affairs. We completed this year's budget with a 0.3% angle of gross domestic product, about 10 billion angles, and then the budget is about to work automatically against the economy fluctuation through reduced taxes, higher expenses, higher unemployment rates, etc. I'd also like to mention that in recent years economic growth will be 0.6% instead of predicting 0.2% of contractions. They are positive in this situation. Third, I'd like to name the government's contribution to the Life Treaty. After all, there are about 80 billion contributions in the form of tax doctors, and a decrease in bank taxation, a reduction in insurance costs, and all of it will work. I can agree with that with the highest. Secretary of finance that it's a song now, the state funds are strong. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The Minister of Education, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, has spoken very conclusively before an injection in the form of a reasonable investment, and I can truly agree with her in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u34	Mr. President. It might be better if it's the highest. Education minister, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir, would be the minister of finance. It has recently described the simple, obvious, healthy idea that appeared in the Porra campaign policy book for the last two elections, that a state fund should be used to balance mood swings in the economy by investing in the infrastructure, which is the only limiting factor in the management of the economy. However, underlying system-based factors in the down cycle are not just high-keys at this time. In my conversations with the leaders of various companies recently, both sceptical and deep - seated enterprises, the same has been true everywhere: lack of money that inhibits evolution. The banks are bringing together the sails of loans to companies in general, and when such loans are given on heavenly interest. Foreign investors invest very carefully at the moment, and to a limited extent and foreign investors are hardly able to look at Iceland, in part, because of fear of an irresponsible control system and an unstable currency. Why can the United States be part of the Asian Development Bank and not want a developing bank in Iceland? The government has claimed to respond with the so - called crisis fund, but not until it is possible after the next election and it is completely unclear how it will be done, how funding will be treated, and what the rules will be. In short, this is a vague promise of the Independence Party, which he claims he will do after the next election. Society now needs a strong economy, not just now but always, and it is the responsibility of the State to promote it. It would be a positive change if it were the highest. For example, a financial minister did something other than flatter himself about vague ideas, such as he did earlier and complained about the way he did last week and complained about the rewards of the lowest paid ones, and instead he focused on creating this blessed stability that he always claims to represent. [[Never.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for your business and good discussions, thank you. paritaprevir The village Þorsteinn of Víglundsson and the finest. Secretary of finance for being with us today. Most people are talking about coldness in the economy, and it doesn't sound like anything, we're totally aware of it. But because I have this motherly feeling about the treasure, I really want to come in on it as the highest. Secretary of finance earlier told me to improve the management of the state. Undeniably, then, you wonder after hearing from his Ministry where certain uncertainties are being flashed, perhaps they lack funding and holes here and where capital funds are missing. I'd like to specifically mention the "S" medication, where it's believed that there's a billion missing. We're buying drugs, both general drugs and S-drugs, and now I'm gonna come up with numbers that I'm next sure of at the highest. For more than 30 billion dollars, the secretary of finance has not been predicting anything. every year. Of these, we are throwing away some 250 pounds [250 kg] of medicine a week. Toni a month, 12 tons of drugs a year. When it comes to making a move in the state and the government business, I wonder if we can't start with this. It's been said that public funds are being treated badly, and the state doesn't know how to fire one or anything, but I think we could do better. Another thing that has really caught my attention is 10 billion of the department's spending on buying out foreign counseling services, the department of many experts in their field of research, a ministry that is certainly not poor with men and experts. When you start thinking about improving the economy, I'd recommend that we pick up so little -- I'd like to bring so much more than the time is over. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u36	A respectable president. It is interesting when government leaders discuss economic proposals through the Morning Press when the government board is not yet facing its decision. V.E.G. The minister of education and cultural culture deserves to thank you for having done just that last week and moved on with this important discussion of infrastructure as a counterargument to predictable downturns. Poor economic conditions are ideal conditions for public investments. Rather than view controversial bank sales as a means to finance and delay projects, possibly for a few years, it is advisable to act immediately to build up when loans are offered in a very favorable way. The internal structure needs to be considered in a larger context than that of falling here and there. It would probably be too much to ask that the government would make its two member states of green community, which is the biggest opportunity of the situation, i.e. building a green-basedinvestment plan. What could such a plan look like? Consider four examples. Increased attention to public transport, by hurrying e.g. City line, lucrative investment. More investment in the education system, more profitable investment too. But then there is the need to be careful not to take steps back at the same time, as is the case with raising the rate of registration at a university by 40%, as is the case in the media today. Then there is a large increase in studies in all fields, and it is sufficient to include 14% of the success rates of applications in the Research Fund to show the urgency of the need and also the end of the long-term project to ensure electronic energy security and data connections so that all the people we have educated in our education systems and strengthened by our research funds can take root throughout the country to create and use opportunities there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u37	President. There's a difference between raising government expenses and making investments. One blows the booth, the other stimulates the economy. However, it cannot be seen that the government has made a great distinction in considering the priorities of what is remaining in this ideal period. We have a great need for investment in Icelandic society, and this need has been extended to the need to build on the outside in the long term of the current government. Like what? A senator and an apocalyptic man, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, has long spoken of concern that the economic outlook has deteriorated from day to day. It takes time to get your investments started. They need to be started immediately if the goal is to stimulate the economy now, as we are approaching the edge of the economy. These investments need to be profitable, and they need to be kept in mind their wise financing so that we don't get caught up in the state's funds to compete with the economy for financial gain, it would be worse for us than at home. Perhaps there is evidence that the government is waking up from sleep, that it is realizing that the expansion of the season has done anything but contribute to economic reform, and that it is falling toward the depth of the year. The situation is that there is not much in the government box and unclear how to finance the suggestions that are also unattracted from the highest degree. Governments, but there's plenty to take. Building to the future is a matter of creating valuable things, of promoting innovation and intelligence, as well as of national safety, transportation, and nursing. Mr. President. I hope we're not out of time in this discussion, but I'm not so optimistic about struggling with political parties and even their internal conflicts give the results the people need. We cannot in this matter wait until the next election. Even waiting until next summer is hard. The situation's pretty twisted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u38	Mr. President. In 2010 the debt of the government broke 85% of GDP. This year the debt will be 31%. At the same time, OECD countries have been increasing their debt and have reached another hundred percent of the gross domestic product. This means that government policy in recent years is to pay off debt has brought tremendous results. This means that governments are better equipped to cope with the potential economic setback. The people's position is unprecedented, since we have a clean holding of 25% of GDP and we also have a currency fee of 28%, perhaps way too much money and all too expensive. In order to say, the bottle is at least half-full, Mr. President, although some would like to think it's half-empty. I agree with the members of Congress who have encouraged the invasion of the investment, which is in accordance with the highest level. Secretary of finance has been reporting the last few weeks and the last few months. However, in any type of investment, it is important. It is important that those investments are profitable, especially if we are faced with some sort of investment or in any way that we are going to finance them by debting to the state's funds, because if they are not profitable to us investors, the decision to borrow the standard of living for future generations is being made. Against that, I will, my chief. President, stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion today. I'd like to get a few words into my mouth. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, who was in a pit before me. Of course, there are projects on all aspects of the government that are profitable, so if that's what worries us, we're not in much trouble. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson does not have to lose sleep over the lack of lucrative projects, let alone in a plan you have to plan for and press. I welcome the highest words. The minister of finance, in which he entered his speech, saw that there was a need for greater financial support in public affairs. It is absolutely essential that we achieve business management so that the financial resources that enter the budget are even more useful than today in terms of the business of the accounts. We see here that there is not one thing to do, and there is no one that is responsible for the situation today, whether it is viewed by tourism, construction sector, or many other business institutions. The number of people without employment has increased rapidly, and we need to enter this matter in a very specific way. The government has to stand down there. If the debate is primarily about decision-making fear in terms of how to finance the case, then we in the middle category may be coming to the work and setting up a plan that we will give to the government groups whenever it is ready to accept it. But the core point is this: We need to take decisive action on these topics, we need to initiate investment, we need to do so on lucrative projects, as we have to do, but the government groups must first be ready to make a decision. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is the prince's decision that must be taken and must not be kept.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u40	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion that I think is useful and important for us to talk to our opinions about where the economy is going at any given time. It is important in the discussion, I think, that economic growth has been evident in the country during the past ten years, and despite all predictions, economic growth in the past was still small. The black vision may now turn to the fact that economic growth in this year will probably be much smaller than the predicted one, and that is not good. Yet, economic growth is expected. In fact, I remember hearing a discussion about it a year or two ago that it just couldn't be that economic growth could take so many years to catch, it never would have happened and would never happen, etc. But now this has happened, and economic growth is prophesied for the next three years, not much, but in the right direction. But what should we do when the economy is merely occurring and growth is not as fast as before? I believe that as a community, we should focus on what we would call green solutions in the economy and green solutions to business management and innovation. It may be the most natural message to come along at this point, and that is what is really calling for in the community. In the infrastructure, it is very important that we do not look only at some spectacular project, such as the driving force. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in earlier, but we also look at where to take action in terms of what groups are the most affected by unemployment, how to cope with them first and last time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u41	Mr. President. In a downturn, it is vital that the State do their part in promoting the economy and working against unemployment. It would have been best to do after the collapse of the bank, but it wasn't possible. It was so high and nobody wanted to lend us money, because we were so in debt that it threatened the nation's independence. It just happened five years after the personalization of the banks, and we have not forgotten the hardships and costs of the nation's affluence. After just four years of major cuts, we ended up living in favor of the riot. The left government was ready for investment policy and financed a budget to implement at the end of the terms of a season while there was still a laxness in the economy. The right rule of Independence Party and the forwarding party, led by the same financial and economic minister to which this debate was directed, followed by the 2013 election plan. There was a loss of opportunity for infrastructure, which would have brought great benefits to the public and would be enjoying us now. We need to take action, but it is not a matter of what is being done, although there is a need for both the maintenance and the development of the transport system and the security of the energy system. Not to be overlooked are men who are unemployed. We need to consider working for both women and men as well as the sexes of the work market. It is also obvious that the number of educational tools needed throughout the country is increasing. Achieving the education of subversive education must be good and equal for study regardless of place and economy. So let's open high school and grow the ever - increasing education centers, and we'll get out of the low space faster.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u42	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank you for this helpful discussion. I traced a few points to my first talk, which are important when we look at the terms of the money, to use in an effort to counter the pace. Of course, we need to look at the terms of the government in connection with money policy and with the work market. Now there is a particular situation where the decrease in the control interest, sharing less interest, does not seem to be getting into the job life with increasing commercial investments, as we hoped, at any rate, it does not manifest that way, a professional investing is contrary to contracting. We have officially made public investments in the historical average or just over. When the amount of relaxation is greater, as foretold for the next two years, is likely to grow faster and faster, we are naturally wondering if we need to go into a special campaign. Of course, there's a reasonable financial management of the past year, where the emphasis has been on, since 2011, is paying off debt, i.e. strong state of state funds. At the same time, we have been able to maintain high prices. Now that we look forward to a business response by staging and laying down human resources, there is an opportunity for us to make good use of the position of the State Fund. That's why I'm the highest. A government to do special campaigns and take on lucrative, reasonable investments in electrical transport systems, communication systems, and transport that will certainly be available for longer periods of time and increased production there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u43	Mr. President. There are a few problems in today's country's economy. I mentioned the previous lack of funding for the economy so that businesses can finance evolution, research and marketing to name something. Of course, there are more problems, but the allergies of the majority of the government for public investments have, in some respects, reduced the ability of the economy. It is said that you should not attack, e.g. The construction of a new Elf year bridge unless there are some private investors involved in the project and then charge expenses. True, you ask yourself, " How did the present Elfjörður bridge come into existence at the time or how the road system came into existence in its time, its heat supply, or other essential structures? ' The fact that no investors in society are to be invested unless some private fortune has grown weary to the point that government funds do not depend on the structure of society. You're right. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kárson made it clear that we have a considerable amount of money, both the currency and the other, and although I really like a big deal about having a fat fund, it's always useful to invest in structure because if you invest in the future it's a good way to make sure that the fund is still a bit thicker in time instead of falling apart. Finally, I'd like to say about this so-called booth that the Central Party continues to point out that it is quite remarkable that they never tell exactly which booth they're talking about. I'm not sure they know for themselves. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for encouraging this discussion, and not unnecessary for us to talk about the big movie at times, especially when the policy has been in dire opposition to the economic goals for so long.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u44	A respectable president. We're discussing the situation of the economy and the responses of the government, and thank you very much. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, for this discussion and minister. Secretary of finance earlier, if I may quote him, "Don't overdo your pay. " I ask, " Is there also in the matter of paying more taxes, the wages below poverty limits? ' Pension pay is incredibly taxed, and that tax has gone up in recent decades. That won't be necessary. If Shockers' bill was approved, it wouldn't have to be paid under 300,000 dollars. and that would be a lot of money. Then there is another element that is a bit strange, and it is that growth is at a minimum. In fact, government funds could borrow, and it would be paid by that, there are so little interest abroad. And I've always asked myself, " Why is it that we're still in these butts all the time? ' Let's just take a look at the Smokejanes track now, it's being buttocked there and then we'll take another one of the pieces that's being done right now, past Stramsví into the Kuaculi. It's like this all over the country. Why is there no economy in this, and no one will see it? Let's just spit on, take a loan, and build the roads because it's an investment. This is truly a turning point for society, for accidents are expensive, not just in money, but in damage to people and to the health system. That's where we're supposed to spit, and we're supposed to do it now because it's already a national profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for your excellent discussion. Much of the interest has been observed, especially by government officials, but this repeated number of cases of success in the business of the state funds. Of course, the driving of a government fund without a financial recession is an achievement. I can totally agree with that with the highest. ... management. That is a remarkable achievement. The economy has not yet been recessed, but the wealth has reached a considerable angle and the highest. Secretary of finance even spoke for himself. that it is important to discuss how we were going to finance this angle. This, of course, is also the problem when the government's response to the uncertainty gap set into financial and policy last year. This was not to add to investments but primarily to provide room for the previously planned expansion of the government when economic prospects were deteriorating. It is called an irresponsible government of government as best happens. Yet, in the circumstances that exist now, once the government has emptied the box and the prospects are even further fixed in the economy, it is important that we spit in and break up the sleeves in public investments. So I think it's important to consider two things: On the one hand, we need to put aside disagreements about how we employ roads or other public projects. We are to set aside a discussion about some special tax or taxation. This must simply be financed by the borrowing of the state's funds. However, we must speed up the projects we have in and that are, as has been repeated in this discussion, and it is important to maintain a successful investment. It is our system, to speed up the double smokejanes track, to complete reform on the Southland road, and to continue to be counted and placed on top of the magazine, but it is also very important to keep in mind the survival of a new land hospital, as well as to have to carry out the necessary structure of nursing services for the elderly who have fully advanced in the current government and are a disgrace to it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u46	A respectable president. This has been a lively, informative discussion. A wide range of views work out here, including that the government has done too much to lower taxes, and then there is a plea that we continue to lower our taxes, so there are very different views. I've talked about how we've lived in the best interests of our lives, and that's because we've made a significant change in economicism in 2019 so that the total supply of state funds would be about 40 billion less than it would have had to be under older financial policies without droppinging a wealth into debt. In fact, in the year 2019, we continued to lose our debt despite a slight angle. Of course, in 2019 the slope is not large, to see a 1,515 billion pitch in over 3,000 billion economys. What most people seem to agree on now is that borrowing is good. Then I'll just say, we wouldn't be talking about taking a loan if we hadn't just been making the money, securing a better loan, paying off an older loan, and putting the credit rates in the position we see today. What I may miss here during this discussion is our job role in improving the conditions of the nation's industry. Of course, there is much to worry about being lost - an investment. Granted, public investments and increased public activities, compromise public finances, stimulate employment life, but we have to dig a little deeper and ask ourselves what else we can do for the job life in Iceland to get oxygen there so that we can continue to increase the number of jobs there. This government has given great importance to innovation, never before been so much earmarked innovation, research and development, tax incentives, new funds to support that activity, competitive funds increase, etc. There we have certainly been sowing seeds for the future and creation on new jobs. Thank you for your excellent conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u47	Mr. President. I'm not gonna have a lot of words here, but I think it's time to follow through with a sound economic and business proposal about Article 1. The bill. The adjustment is on deck. 987 and it says: ▪ Instead of the words, at the same time a financial enterprise according to the definition of the terms "financial enterprise', at 1 mg. a-arms 6. The law of the law states: they also have permission to lend money to consumers by special law, and they are responsible to be under the law on official financial control. The reason for this adjustment is simple in itself. We're saying that if you don't see any of this change proposal... you'd have people who were allowed and under control at the FME... but also records... that are, of course, completely unnecessary, double-worked and confused. In other words, it is that these parties are employed as permissible. This may, for example, occur. Be a map company, and they work under the permission and under the supervision of the FDA to make it clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u48	Mr. President. I'm not going to be long again, but I just wanted to mention that there have been some concerns about the accurate wording found in Article 1. The bill. It focuses mainly on the fact that the exact significance of all these terms is when we are talking about a both electromagnetic signature, an electronic signature, and so forth. It came the day when we were just doing it. paritaprevir In fact, the spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir was just as concerned as we talked about the adjustment that we will make to the 3rd. which is about to add the word ◯computer to the word, i.e. Do not delete it as to be done according to the current bill. It's just that we want people to use the right method of identification, but that time will follow, in fact, the flexibility that is needed to make a good deal of it. It is also good to mention that there is a change in the entry of the bill that allows us to make room until summer to look into it a little more. We still have some specific questions, and we just need to do it right. We're in a little bit of a time crisis right now, but with this solution, we can at least... Be pretty safe. Then we can breathe only in the abdomen until Easter and try to determine if this is not the ultimate solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u49	Mr. President. The members of the United States are individuals known as Icelandic citizens. These individuals have a right here on earth, and they also have certain responsibilities toward the State and those of the same association. In certain cases, however, we choose to give the special privilege of becoming Icelandic citizens. Although this bill is somehow designed to improve things in many cases, the primary factors for what I cannot stop, e.g. that large criminals who have been sentenced to ten years in prison may become Icelandic citizens with a simple administrative decision. That is unacceptable, Mr. President. I also believe it is unacceptable that the government will be authorized to give individuals the right to become citizens of this country who will not be able to present identification or proof of any other nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u50	A respectable president. I come up here to declare support for this bill. I believe that in most respects there are significant improvements and make up for the system of each fault system that has repeatedly made its way onto the board of this council because of the inflexible rules of e.g. That's what I'm talking about. A senator before me mentioned, to prove his identity. International rights, so I'll tell you why. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, however, should not have to consult the states they are fleeing from for identification and proof of good conduct. It is very clear in national rights, so by making a clear demand for that, as in the current law, that the person proves by this route is also asking the person to break national rights. We are also breaking national rights at the same time. So it's good that we're fixing that rule, even though I might have wanted to fix it in a different way than it does here. [[The president calls.]] I'd also like to mention that I don't think it's necessary to impair people's rights, as is being done with this bill, to extend the time it takes for those who marry an Icelandic citizen to get an Icelandic citizen's right from three years to four. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u51	Mr. President. The law on Icelandic civil rights contains conditions for becoming citizens of this country. This is to be a strict requirement, and I reject the unfounded compromises in that regard. Six. The law is to establish a law that the Council can grant this right. It will remain open for those who do not fall under the decision of the administration, as in this case significant evacuation is being made. This too is shown in Step 7. The law says that the exception is the right of the Foreign Institute for this right. I say no to the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for dealing with this case and making it a success at the council. The bill aims to increase the transparency and efficiency of the law and to improve the clarity of a few rules measuring for citizens' rights. It is important that our system is clear and taken into account changing social practices and that the system is designed to help people who come here know what career will do to them when they apply for civil rights. It is hoped that fewer matters will flow to the council, which should be solved by general rules. I thank you for your support, and I'm glad to see him here in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u53	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here so that they're also saying in this discussion that there's at least one of them. One senator who is grateful for the people who choose to come here and seek Icelandic citizenship and would like to participate in this community, take part in choosing us here, and is completely equal to citizens and everyone else in this room. I think it's very important that there are members of the council here who are concerned that there are people here who want to come and settle down and become part of this community. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u54	Mr. President. This issue is a response to a major scandal involving a tens of thousands of miles [10 thousand km] of rental business. They talk about 148 cars. The government's response to this has been soothing, to say the least, and the response to this bill remains. We've got a company on the pro board, what do you mean? paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, moved a deportation proposal that discussed the restoration of this matter to the government that won it better. We Middle-class members will not violate this matter by themselves, but we will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u55	A respectable president. The extremes of this case seem to me to be of such a wearer, if I may turn off a bit, that there is hardly any way to vote for it. It's quite amazing to send them a message to the community that you can actually break against the general penalties and everything and lie, cheat and rip, and that's all you're supposed to do, and all you're supposed to do is hit your finger only and say, "If you cheat a few more times, you've worked enough with the cheating to pay the small fine we're going to lay on you. I just have to say, if I didn't have a choice, I would have taken that rental license out of my car rights at once for a certain time and sent her a clear message: that's not how you do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-62.u56	Mr. President. There's a big misunderstanding going around. A senator who spoke before me. There are judicial decisions in the land that lead to gross violations of the nation's penalties. This case, number 386, actually turns to the car rent where it is being said: It is forbidden to turn down the number of miles. There are perfect laws in this country about penalties and other things. There's an investigation, so I don't understand the skunk problem that came up here.
