ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u1	According to Article 1, the President has received a discourse from the Congress of the Agency on the change of men in committees. Section 16. Congress, so that Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir takes up residence as the head of the General and Education Committee instead of Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglur and Þórunn Egilsdóttir, who takes the seat of the Lineché Anna Savars Sævarsdóttir as an assistant of the same committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u2	There have been letters from foreign and development co-worker at a request every time to provide written answers to the application for this request. 710, for the release of international contracts, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and for the question of cover. 1142 on strategy measures, from Albertína Fjordur, the daughter of Elíasdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u3	As for the 9th session, the matter was distributed after April 1 and therefore needs to be agreed to take the matter on. The president's view of these variants is adopted without a vote if no one objects to it. No one is opposed and therefore accepted, and the matter can be discussed later in this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u4	Mr. President. Today, we celebrate at the United States of America's 20th anniversary. The party was established on this day in 2000 by a number of people who wanted to fulfill their dream to work together in harmony with the collective ideals of peers but not allow conflict to divide. Of course, we would have liked to celebrate our birthday in quite another format, to gather and celebrate a happy day, but we would like to adapt to the strange times and circumstances in which we live and humbly to the complex work that awaits all of us in behalf of Iceland and the nation. (a) What has resulted from the efforts of scientists to get control of the virus itself? (b) What has been the result? It is important to be guided by basic ideals of equalism, social justice, and responsible economic policies. It takes economic stability and a great deal of employment to promote a strong and varied work life that can endure external traumas but social justice is also a prerequisite for all to develop their skills and to use them in their own interests, society, and future generations. Besides, social justice is a noble goal in itself. Therefore, the union will continue to seek to bring together people and to make changes to a righteous society, to take the authority of the people of the land, so that we can implement our affairs and ideas. [[Foreground on: Happy birthday.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u5	The president thinks it's appropriate to wish. Logi Happy birthday to you, Flanders Einarsson of Einars and his company, the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u6	Mr. President. We face enormous challenges in the economy and in the economy. Tens of thousands of people are on unemployment record, and more than 7% of economic growth is predicted in this country. During the past few years, Iceland's basic work, its tourism, is almost like a burning ground. But now it's a good thing to rebuild tourism that is based on nature, environmental protection and sustainability. In each of the government's economic provisions, it is very important that the government step into the structure as it has been done, but measures will be efficient and public support will be conditioned for the moral and sustainable activities, social and environmental. It is important that we do not fall away from the forward environmental solutions to the development, so we cling to our commitment to the Paris Convention but do not delay it, find economic routes, incentives and solutions for sustainable and green structure. The State must be more targeted and more about green investments, green and sustainable development of tourism, environmentally friendly solutions for food production, technological innovations and green creativity in the energy sector and green innovations. Continued action in terms of climate change must be larger in the economy, as we see in the countries around us, with the emphasis on green solutions for the restoration of the economy very clear and strong. A great number of European members of Parliaments and Ministers, presidents of large European companies and labor groups in Europe have publicly called upon green investments and biodiversity to restore economic growth in the continent. But I must admit that I miss the clearer government policy of green economic development based on sustainable and environmental restoration and reversal. I'm asking you, where are the green economics? It was disappointing that the initials around the environment were delayed until the fall council. The environment should not be pushed aside by Covid-19 or otherwise, but on the contrary, it should be in the foreground of aquifer at this time. I'm the highest. The secretary of the environment to the importance of that subject and to his pledge support to that work. Let's put down the lines of society we want to build up here. [[The president calls.]] That society must be built up with human and green solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u7	We've had amazing, tragic, and difficult times, but this situation is temporary. We will and will finish the crisis as soon as possible and we have every opportunity to remain a strong, open, free, international, and economic society. Our health professionals and health experts have been on the bridge and have done well in controlling the spread and limit the mortality of the bridge. A thousand thanks for that. The government has presented extensive and targeted economic measures, measures involved in protecting jobs, a mild blow in a home, maintaining a level of construction, allowing space and oxygen to go into business. We here in this room have developed these routes in cooperation, that I think. Here, bills have made significant changes, and general agreements have been made regarding the important measures under attack. You see, we solve the very hourly subjects that the grappling creates with emphasis on cooperation, cooperation, and cohesion. That's what we all do together, not just the one we're sitting here. Everyone needs to come to the boat and row in the right direction. The communities, the financial systems, the careers, and society all need to come back to the rebuilding process. You see, there is a great source of power in the Icelandic nation, and that power now has to be activated as never before. At the same time that I feel so much pain with those who have lost their job, I hope that they will succeed in making good use of their time, remember that this is a temporary situation, and use the time to care for their own health, their family, and their friends. Most important, now is the time to create new opportunities. I know a lot of people out there have ideas, ideas, ideas, services, events, etc. Now is the time to make these ideas come true, to use the resources available to help and put ideas into action. Activate the pioneers and the creative power.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u8	Mr. President. The final talk was about softening the blows in the homes. So April 20 was expected to calculate the index of consumer prices by the previous month, and this index increased with the result of the increase in GAS by 25 billion today as the annual prices measured by about 6% as shown by an increase between months in the Habitat. In this index calculation of the Haustús today, the quality and services that are not available are expected, not on market, air travel, package travel, at that time, in some places. Instead of releasing these inaccessible products and services, the previous month is compared to the previous month. I ask if this will be the case after the year, that there will be an aeroplane costs as it was in March or something like that to continue the index. Today's increase also shows the need for the government to begin freezing this same index number. This was not done ten years ago, likely the biggest mistake ever made, leading to the landing of over tens of thousands of people on the street. We can't afford to repeat that, Mr. President, and I challenge Haust to draw back these calculations and the decision taken last month and I'll take it back already. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u9	A respectable president. I feel sorry for all the travel services, especially travel agencies that now have financial problems. We entered a matter related to how to solve the cash problem of a travel agency. However, the way the government has chosen is absolutely unprecedented, and it is indistinguishable that the government has chosen the way of taking the rights of consumers so seriously. I stress that I understand a travel agency's cash problem, and he has to solve it, but that can't be done by wearing consumer rights. I'm on a job committee, and this morning there was no discussion because there are apparently some tools on how to solve the case in the administrations. It is also clear that this way of government is going against 72 C.E. The Constitution, the property rights. I ask, a respectable president, why all of this sudden lack of respect for the government groups, including the Independence Party, to the rights of property? Why should consumers not be taken into account? Because consumers are not builders? Because the Neythal Association is not an organization of stakeholders? The way the government groups have decided will go against both consumer property and consumer interests. Still, we need to put our arms around the travel offices. So if the case doesn't change in the activities of the Committee, I will suggest in the spirit of Dana, i.e. To protect consumers but also maintain a normal environment, as normal as possible in the different environment that we now live in. I marvel at the journey of the Independence Party, which suddenly manifests such a strange lack of respect for the rights of property. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing. Senator and chairman of the United States Constitute Conspiracy, happy day to day and good luck to you. I'd also like to present a few of the staff, health care personnel, the police, and the receivers best thank you for their extraordinary performances in the past few days and months. But I wondered what lies ahead for us, a nation that has enjoyed the best. It was said in this chair some time ago that it would take 1,000 billion in the next 20 years or about in order to maintain the quality of life that the people enjoy today. But it is clear that the Covid virus has stopped or greatly slowed us reaching our goal. A respectable president. I wondered what needs to be done to get the job started, and we can start building and using the resources of the country. Just before then, new and green solutions were called. There are many opportunities to do that. Here, there's a lot of energy in the falling waters and the hips of the earth, which can produce thousands of future jobs, well - paying jobs that young people call for, and we also call for the income of such activities. There are also great opportunities for agriculture. Our garden has great opportunities, and we must not let them slip past us. Today other European nations are closing their import to strengthen their own industry, to strengthen their own infrastructure. And that's where we're supposed to be Icelanders. Let's stand by the farmers, stand by the garden of Eden, choose Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u11	A respectable president. In a recent e - mail I received, quote, with permission of the president: The European Union is refusing to negotiate the cost of my child's mental health. The Covid valves in school have been bad enough, but this strike is completely incomprehensible to a child, and the shutdowns in school cause irreparable harm to my child. - Mother in Kopavogi. Why is it so hard to negotiate the terms of a minimum wage person with only 220,000 bucks? a month before tax? I've been asking the government minister in uncivilized inquiry about the genius's figure that the average pension price is about $250,000. every month, no jobs get 290,000 bucks. In a month, minimum wage is 335,000. a month before taxation. I also ask, "Why do you pay $400,000?" minimum. No answers have been made on this difference. It is true that this is nothing more than gross financial violence. Paying money to people who are under poverty is nothing but stupid, and it is ridiculous to maintain such gross discrimination. We're here to work on a righteous society. It should likely be that the terms of disabled people and long - suffering people, older citizens, unemployed people, and low - paying people are decent. It would be fair to have 400,000 bucks. a month before taxes will be minimum and immediately so. In this context, the Organization's proposal for a basic wage to increase by 41,000. in the year 2020, very reasonable. But the answer is no, which is strange, especially in the light of recent increases to us and the rest of the highest officials, as it is said in the news. Sadly, though, once again Jón is different from Pastor Jón, the chief official of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u12	Mr. President. The United States of Iceland's equal party on our anniversary today, and we thank you very much for our welcome from the highest level. Presidents and senators. Yeah, she's 20 years old, she's old, she's old, she's old, she's old, she's old, she's old. She has, like some 20 years old, walked through a number of mature yet firmly rooted in her equalism. As a rule, I would like to be a little grouchy and talk about equality, the equation, the equality of values between us, the people of the earth, regardless of our economic status, gender, race, gender, gender, regardless of our principles of life, yes, just so that we have equal opportunities for development and prosperity. At a time like this when we're getting through the Covid Brimble, the vision of equalism must be that every step you take is always the first question: How does this get out of the picture? Are we forgetting some groups? Therefore, I would like to encourage all of us not to think that now each one must think of himself. Think about each other. What can we do to increase the equation here? It is an ideal opportunity today to increase the equation, eliminate class distinctions, and make sure that no one, young or old, enjoys poverty in our rich country. When we need support, our collective network, our support network, must be made so that it can catch us and leave no one behind. We can do that, but that requires political will. We in the United States have this will, not just on our birthday, but every day. We encourage everyone to go along with us in increasing the world's prosperity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u13	Mr. President. Like others here today, I congratulate the members of the United States and the Conspiracy today. It is important in our political lives that the viewpoints the Conspiracy has its perplexity, and it's nice to have such a small and nice party at the council, just so that it's not too big. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I've cooperated well with both present and former members of the United States and the years to them and theirs for the best. The reason why I speak here is especially to call attention to a particular act that appears to be going on from side to side. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví Gunnarsson, who uses dozens of questions as to the legal function of the individual institutions. I'm not going to reduce the importance of considering the legal role of the individual institutions, but I'm going to wonder about it here and I don't want to answer it in this discussion, but I'm asking the members of Congress to consider whether this is the right way or whether it's possible here to compromise something with the purpose of the inquiry. Some of the answers to these questions are found in the laws on the relevant institutions and can be looked up there in the Hall that is available to all. If you want to go by then. A senator asking about something that has been involved in certain organizations can be done more systematically than what has appeared to us today and yesterday. I would say that if the senator has any defined purpose of this challenge, it would be fair to say that it would be enlightened not to fill the Senate and the job of the consultants with questions of this kind, as clearly as it seems to be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u14	Was Leví given the opportunity to answer? That is the principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u15	A respectable president. Today, there are happy news, many of them daily, good news that the virus is not being detected day by day. The disease is on its way, and we're on the right track. This shows that we made the right decision when we suggested that this route be gone that we all know so well and that we have been informed on a daily basis. Now, though, we need to endure, and we need to remember that this is not done despite the initial release of things that have been banned. We just see it on the road, how it's increased in the last week, that it's just about to fall into the routine. There's a lot of things to be. After this situation is over, there are many lessons that we can learn. I've mentioned it, for example. that meetings or jobs without location have had a new meaning for a lot of people, but the local population has repeatedly called for the fact that these things can be done, many of them, no matter where you are. One thing we trust in is a variety of innovations, intelligence, engineering. We need and are supporting what we already have, but we also need to support new ideas. I can even imagine. In organic culture, in vegetable culture, and in many forms below that. This is an amazing situation that we are experiencing, especially those who are losing their jobs and feeding, hopefully most of whom are temporary, yet it is a very difficult situation for many to face. The government and the General have contributed much to the relief and smoothing of things, and this action is by no means completed. It is important to stand together as a community, and I have full faith that together we will rise from this valley of water and become even stronger society than ever before. And so pleasantly, today is the international handwashing day, which the World Health Organization has conducted each year since 2009, under the heading: a number of lives. Finally, I'd like to congratulate the United States of America on the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u16	V.E.G. President. Now it's going to be a lot of unemployment because of the Covid-19 epidemic that you have to go back to 1920, in the beginning of the global crisis, to find another one of these places. Everyone must work together to find all the ways to keep his work going. I had a last discussion in the council about a situation in the world of Grey Sports, and I intend to stay there because of a meeting that was held this morning on a professional committee. Because of the serious situation of those who are fishing at a gray age in Iceland, a meeting was held at a professional committee this morning, where the situation was covered. It gave the information that strongly suggests that Frodo made a mistake in the calculation of the budgeting of 1985◯208, all of which are laid to the basic calculation of Edro's counseling. In short, the problem is that the wrong index has been used to account for the number of barrels to catch numbers of unscrupulous gray spots. This is in order to use figures from 1985•2008 when compared to 2008, which in that year began to weigh on the gray-free horse, and later in 20123/42013 on an entire gray patch when it was obliged to land the gray patch. If the information presented at the end of the meeting is correct, it is likely that Hafrós's counseling is miscalculated by 20-225%, while the number of grey-free grey-drunk users on the drop should be easy to approach, and it is difficult to cross. So I'm going to report to the Agency to see if this morning's meeting at a job company meeting gives evidence that there are huge interests at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to start by conjuring the Conspiracy by day, but after that, I'd like to consider that in winter, cooperation and oversight have indeed been tested by all of us as public security. In today's uncertainty, cohesion and management will continue to test the continued P.R. of the processing and consequences of Covid-19 in creating public income and in ensuring the well-being of all citizens. I would especially like to make this subject a subject of social action. There are 5.7 billion dollars in proposals currently under consideration at the Council. intended to contribute to the impact of the epidemic on vulnerable populations in the community. They will meet families of long - sick or disabled children who have had to increase their care at home. Resource is used to support children's leisure activities in low - income households to ensure their opportunity for sports and leisure activities and the effort to work for jobseekers and students is in progress. At that time, family violence is being added. The routine disorder may be particularly difficult for children, and studies have shown that violence is increasing where family stress is high. So this emphasis is of utmost importance. Social projects are usually done, if not all, that they will be solved only in broad cooperation between state, rural society, unions, companies and individuals. For example, to ensure the participation of children and teenagers in organized sports, the State needs to channel funding to rural society, which can then bring them to a greater need of work in cooperation with the board members, coaches, and parents'contacts. Children should be at risk of getting out of a hobby if nothing was done. Let us work against it, use the spirit of fellowship around sports companies, and have many opportunities to resist. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u18	A respectable president. Well, I guess I'll start off also by giving the United States a hearty congratulations on your birthday. The whole country has over 17,000 university students, of whom about 13,000 are currently attending the University of Iceland. In a survey of students at the University of Iceland and their watching summer work, 40% of the students answered that they did not have summer work yet, despite looking for them. Interestingly, this survey was conducted before it became clear how serious the situation had become. A large group of students say that they have difficulty meeting their expenses during the summer, even fearing the loss of their home. This situation is understandable to students and their families. The summer has been the time students spend earning money. The government has stepped forward and said that they intend to secure 3,000 jobs in public institutions of state and rural areas, as well as to offer a well-deserved summer education, but this will not be enough. We've been looking for this job for students at the same time reaching private companies so they can hire them out temporarily this summer to face a problem that will clearly be present this summer. In addition, students are not entitled to the unemployment benefits and demand for the students'movement to do so clearly, and it is understandable that students are allowed access to unemployment during some of the difficult circumstances. I know students have presented opinions about the unemployment benefits to the government, and I'm disappointed that this has not yet been made. I encourage the government to do better work for students and after unemployment incidents in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u19	President. By permission of the President: ▪ From tomorrow on, we begin our journey, step by step, toward brighter days. That's how it came to the highest. On Sunday, the prime minister makes a comment on his address to the people. Now the day has come after that morning, and what will happen then? Rather than seeing all the promises of a bright day on the program of a meeting, an old acquaintance appears to be a dangerous, highly dangerous, and highly elated bill of Justice Minister on the change in foreign law. This bill was very effective when Sigríður Andersen published it in the consultation notices a year ago and when Þórdís Kol Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir submitted it to a council. Today, the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is stubbornly putting this bill into practice for the third time, today in which there is little evidence to slip it past the nation. The worst change in the bill is subtle, just withdrawal of one letter, resulting in the fact that a large number of people applying for international protection have no hope of receiving it. These are the people we regularly see in the media, in families who live in flight, and in people who deal with sickness, pregnant women, newborns, and children in Icelandic school, people who have been sheltered in lands such as Greece, where people live in tents for years without access to electricity and water, countries such as Hungary and Bulgaria, where refugees are at risk of becoming violent by the police, countries that cannot guarantee a man - made situation so that people escape the system to protect them. It's supposed to cancel the law that allows us to let these people stay. If this bill is legal, neither the Foreign Institute nor the Foreign Committee of Foreign Affairs even has the authority to address these people for discussion. You can't decorate with solidarity one day, but you turn your back on refugees the next day. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u20	President. Pirata's bill on the continuation of a forced sale has been presented. It rests entirely on the bill that Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjindótttir, then the highest. Minister of state, submitted in its time, 2013, notice, however, it was five years after the collapse, the worst economic collapse in Iceland. Now in the middle of the Covid epidemic, we know that the worst economic crisis in Iceland will probably be for a century. However, five years after the last collapse, during the last crisis, the bill was presented for the delay of forced sales. It is time to give this clear message: The General Assembly of the Icelanders will postpone forced halls, at least for a year to begin with, perhaps a longer delay may be needed. That's what Pirata's bill is about. The bill's out. There is an example for such a bill, and it depends on the constitution of the rights of property. This applies only to people's homes where they live. The car's going to cause this worse crisis. Now the ball for the generals, who can send the message today that they can have the bill printed and put their name on it, or for the government that can pick up the case and apply it in their own way. The buns have been thrown. The time has come for a message to be sent out to the community that we're going to postpone forced sales, people to get that amount of space. About the strikes that were about to begin today. 12 which 90% of the Member States agreed on as a result of the Covid pandemic, Säfling has signed a contract with Reykjavíkurburg and solved a contract agreement, but still some rural society is desperate, i.e. Elfus, Kóppavogur, Mosfellstown, and Seltanenes, all ruled by independents, to negotiate as well as Ephling did with the city of Reykjavík, the welfare agreements there, making as good as Ephling did with the State. The well-traveled contracts of Reykjavík are examples, they're there. You can go that way. [[The president calls.]] It's not on the table to put a law on the strike. What was on the table for the well - being of children that these individuals and the children of these parents were enjoining that rural communities have to agree with contracts like Ephling did with the city of Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u21	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir year's Ármannsson was complaining about my inquiries. If he'd been paying more attention during a discussion here before, I'd done a fine explanation for these inquiries. The reason I'm speaking specifically about the President's conference board is because I missed a comment from the president's office on the subject. A senator could have wished to have a word with me about this rather than talk like that without giving me an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u22	President. Yes, it is important that the president of the Parliament be equal in his decisions when it comes to the task of the council being completely normal. This is what members of the council know about the chairman of the council. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year knows that if he intends to name another senator and talk about his assignment at the council, he will talk to him ahead of time and ask him to answer him in answer to the appointment of the council. This was confirmed when I first arrived at a council. Hv. a member of Parliament, Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, then a platoon member, came up here and apologized for his members for exactly this violation of the principle of allowing members of Congress to react. So did Svandís Svavarsdóttir, then why. Class president of the Left Green. I know this is the principle of the council. Everyone knows, and strange, that the president of the council had not responded and in some way pointed out to the procurator of the Independence Party that he had done so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u23	Mr. President. I'll be happy to admit that it would have been better and more tasteful on my part to do what's happened. paritaprevir The young woman Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, tells us that I was going to mention him in my speech. I noted that I was not calling for an answer. Rather, it was to call the members of Congress to the attention of this peculiar flood of inquiry from whence. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. I'll be happy to admit that it was a mistake on my part to let things go. Not knowing this ahead of time, a senator promises that the next time I take inquiries or other members of Congress from time to time. paritaprevir The book of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, or anyone else for discussion, will I make known in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. Ármannsson That's what I'm talking about for. Of course it's no problem, we'll do better next time. At least I'd like to point them out. paritaprevir To teach a perfectly respected president, the flood of inquiry, as I proposed a joint inquiry to the minister but the highest. It was too much for the president to ask, and I had to divide it for each individual institution. It's just as much work as it takes on a whole but it's still not allowed to combine the inquiry as I would like.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u25	The president wants to state that he agrees. paritaprevir A year's Birgir that it had been convenient for him to have given in to it. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson knows that he was going to compromise his case with his inquiry. True, it is clear whether members of Congress directly wish to have a word with another senator, want to ask questions for another senator, and by themselves they must inform the same individual in advance, or whether they may name him in general. My conclusions are the same as they have been made in this exchange, that under these circumstances it had been normal. paritaprevir A year's Ármannsson farm, as if he had already confessed, would have had it. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson knows. Because of what was said here about asking Leví. Gunnarsson It is true that the president confirmed that the president refused to write a letter of inquiry. A senator with one request directed to the Ministry and requested answers to the legal projects of the Ministry and all its institutions and how the funds were applied to them and to each project. This was done by the president with the reference to 1st. 57st. Parliamentary but it says about queries: A minister of information or an answer to public issues, cr. 1.mg. 54. .., or its unique point, he does so with a inquiry to be granted to the president. The request should be clear, on specific issues and issues for which a minister is responsible, and on this basis that the matter can be answered in brief. The president evidently considered it a matter of opinion whether the boundaries were not exceeded when one of the inquiries was to ask about all the legal projects of the Ministry and all its institutions as well as the funding of their projects and clearly understood. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request from then on offered to submit to the meeting for permission of such inquiries. For that matter, the president may strike, as 2 mg. That's the 57th grade name. It says: ◯Forset as soon as he thinks he can ask for permission or not. - In other words, it's not necessarily that every request is written. - But if you're sure, the President can vote the matter without question at a conference. It will also be done if the proselytism of the request is denied by the president. That's not what it means. The president had not taken a final stand on the inquiry, offered to submit to the meeting, but the question in the case was, Was such an extensive inquiry not clearly out of the box specified in 1 mgr? 57st. I don't think it's possible to argue that when asked about all the legal projects of the Ministry, all its institutions, the funding of all their projects, and each one of them, it is possible to answer in short terms, e.g. in the case of the largest advisers. The president would have been perfectly pleased to bear the doubt of the council, but then he chose it. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is changing the distribution of his inquiries in an effort to ask for each institution and each Ministry. They think presidents are making room within the framework, that it is reasonable and possible to comment on a fairly short matter. This, however, will lead to a question by reason. I guess the senator will be quite a dozen. The president could think of 60 constitutes a question, but it will be settled that the president thinks he is able to write on it. That is why he has done so and thus believes that he stands by the right of a senator to ask questions. I think it was inevitable, though it took a few seconds to inform the background of this case, since it was made public in the way that the inquirer did here and before him others who made comments to the queries. Then I hope there's a complete light for the House of Congress the background of the currently injected inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u26	President. It was nice getting the back story of these queries, but then it's just that I know why. Ármannsson That's why there are so many queries. If there were other and better ways to get this information quickly and effectively, it would be the best. It sounds like the government is talking about electronic administration, it's been talking about it since I fell into Congress seven years ago, but it would be the natural way for this information to be available, that the Americans could see what is going on. It may be wise to put it first so that other means are able to obtain this information clearly and readily available. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is on a budget committee and is deeply concerned with the fact that information on matters pertaining to it is being given to the people of the land. That's very good. Regarding the job of the council, there is no need for a senator to ask a question to another senator. The principle is that a person who criticizes the work of another senator at the council invites him and gives him the opportunity to make a reply in the council. Let's not scratch over it. This is the principle, og the Birgir son of an Aarhus has apologized for what is good. [[The president calls.]] Won't the president of the council just say it's a principle and no attempt to scratch the case? I'm just saying maybe he should have pointed it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u27	The president was not scratching over the matter and stated that he agreed that it was right to do so. Birgir This was under Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear and made him know that he was going to speak. When there is no material support, the president feels there is no need to adopt his words in this way. In this case before and if so, the president made clear his position. A senator would have risked listening had he not had to bring these bad things here now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u28	Mr. President. Regarding the questions contained in the queries why. paritaprevir Consider the case of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, that if the government's institutions are not in the third hundred, they are at least 300. good for the second hundred. Their role is discussed in the law of those organizations. There are laws that are readily available and readily available. Congress officials do not need to let the individual ministry or others look it up. In terms of budgetary management, the budget for each organisation is covered in budgets covered here each year, so this is not the case. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson calling for some secret information. It's all available.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u29	Mr. President. I recommend a committee party on deck. 1099 for the greater part of the Economic and Business Commission on bill for management of specialized funds. The bill suggests that there will be new overall laws on the management of specialized funds, but to date no total law on their function is valid. The bill leads to the European Parliament's rights Directive and Council 2011/61/EU on the operators of specialized funds, called Universal Investment, and includes all other funds other than stocks. The report on the bill says that the main objective of the directive is the order of action between Member States and to ensure a consistent effort on the internal market of the EEA. Legalization of the bill results in the formation of a new surveillance warrant for a person in the Icelandic financial market, i.e. Negotiation of specialized funds. We now have law numbers. 128/2011 about the stock market, investment funds and the retail board. The changes suggested by the bill affect those who run a fund that is different from the stocks of the stocks. The bill produces changes in financial market laws and is primarily due to changes in conceptual use. In other respects, the objective and subject of the bill should be referred to a report. It is proper to state, as stated in a committee study, that Iceland's Federal Commission described the joy of the fact that the bill had been submitted and gave some tips that the committee agreed on almost without exception. The government's legal rights lay down in their reviews a change in the use of terms and accepts the committee, as it is clearly stated in a committee's list. Then the bill suggests that we calculate the amount of money in the law based on the official purchase of euro. However, the majority feel that it is right to suggest that a prenup will be removed from the law when used in the above context, using the reference to that from April 1 onward. Displays only the World Bank's official currency rate and then falls off the publication of the stock market. It is important to draw the attention of the body of Parliaments, also on the report of the Committee on the matter of comments made by the FEARS, where the organization believes that the greater and greater responsibilities of the smaller businessholders of specialized funds are beyond what is outlined in the directive and that they would be relieved according to its requirements. The financial and economic memo to the Committee does not agree with these views or views. It should be noted that current legislation on investment funds is taken into account, looking to investment protection that, of course, matters to a high and system-risk in the light of the Icelandic financial market special. The increased demand allows monitors to monitor the development of the system and its risks. It was then noted to the Commission that in the process of implementing a directive, Member States will meet certain minimum requirements for conformity but will have scope for extending the requested procedure. FEATURE also makes a comment that smaller companies are suggested to be prohibited from marketing with their investors. In this regard it should be noted that although the management board of specialized funds is prohibited from marketing with the public in this country, it is not forbidden that the public is looking for their own initiative in making investment funds. With the bill, there's also some. suggest that the product become the exclusive right of stocks and investment funds to receive money from the public in a way that allows for a so - called reverse offer. Finally, Mr. President, it is appropriate to point out that the more part feels the need to make changes in the bill's validation law, as indicated in the committee opinion, and after the approved legislation on the descriptions of the stocks offered in general tenders or in a commercial market, it was found that reference had to be adjusted to 2 mgr. Section 12. where you can refer to Article 4. Instead of 6. Same law. Adds the extra item an appropriate adjustment form. Other forms of adjustment are technical and mechanical, but they do not have material influence. According to this, and with the reference to the written commission presented here, more part of the Economic and Business Committee will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson son of what? A senator and our former partner here were absent from the case but signed this opinion in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Council procedures for the Synod's regular committees and in advance. Those who sign are considered to be why. The men of the assembly, Óli the Kárason of Meriamur, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Ólafur the son of Ágústsson, Birgir the Ármannsson of Aargah, Ólafur the Þorsteinn Víglundsson Gunnarsson, and Gizzal, with a warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u30	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee on the Economic and Business Commission on the bill to correct the change of various legal regulations for the financial institutions and the appropriate conditions of the management and the Commission of partners. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Sigurbjörg Stella Guðmundsdóttir and Harpa Theodórsdóttir from the Department of Professional Roads and Developments. The committee received a review of the matter from Iceland's Federal Bank. By means of the bill, two branches are suggested. a Union Act, No. 22/1991 on the authority of a partner to reassign deposit centres. Other laws, such as the IIst, are also proposed to change. section of the bill, which leads to the disappearance of that source. However, adjustments to Article 27 are proposed. The Act that the appropriate conditions of the management board and the Commission of partners will be comparable to those of the management board and the executive director of the partner and the private partner. According to the Federal Bureau of Education, it was reported that it was unfortunate that credit centres would be treated by peers who did not follow similar precautions and business banks and savings. The late bank supported the bill's progress and thanked the consultation that had been done with its contract. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under the committee's opinion, you'll write to me as well. Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Committee, Brumur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Smári Mccarthy, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Þorgrímur, Sigmundsson Álfur Þór Gunnarsson, and Willum Þór, Ólafur of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u31	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a panel of committees on behalf of the Economic and Business Committee. 1115 on bill to legalize various laws. I think it's a happy bill, and the Committee ends up all alone in its payment. The bill suggests that in a quarter of the songs that have finished, it will not be missed. As regards the evaluation of the impact of the bill, it says that its approval would have only a result of increasing the clarity of the law code in terms of law in the fields of finance and the Ministry of Economics (U.S. The Commission feels positive that the Ministry is working hard to enhance the clarity of the body of law in this way. In this context, the committee suggests 23rd paragraph. legislation on the alteration of various license laws, i.e. A simple rule of action, recently approved at the General Assembly, which allowed 16 laws in the area of the industry and innovation. Further, the commission points to the twice - proposed bill for excommunication, as shown at the last 180th case in a 149th legislation body, which might be viewed as a further cleanup. So the committee suggests that the bill will be passed on as it is written. The people of the assembly, Óli Kárason, the son of Meriamur, the Brynjar of Níelsson, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, the daughter of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, the daughter of Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, the Smári Mccarthy, the Þorgrímur, the son of Sigmundsson, and Willum Þórsson Tursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u32	A respectable president. As you can understand, we support this case. I have to make use of only this opportunity to talk about the law, how we print the law, and what we print from it. By all means, Mr. Honorable President, I am a computer nerd. I'm having a lot of fun with the Generals' records. I also use the code of law, not just for reading, but for programming. Lately, I've been playing around taking the song collection and putting it in a so-called XML format, which is a computer-lockable format and can be programmed for. With the bold act I have learned that in the library there are plenty of things to be cleaned and adjusted. There are much discrepancies between the definitions of chapters, subsections, categories, or others. Also, certain dates of the text are unclear, which makes it clear what should be translated and therefore how to handle it. I'm not just saying this to brag, maybe a little bit, but not just a little. The reason why I mention this is that by doing the code of law and general plagiarism could be more efficient in my opinion, though notably. Not only that, but, for example, it could be done as well. The media and stakeholders in the community are able to keep a better eye on the proposed changes of law and provide headlines earlier. The most basic example I have ever considered is that a local interests owner should be able to mark some legal matter, chapter, fire, or anything in the law that a person operates very much in his daily work and that he may know about it as soon as a bill is presented which has some effect on the legal structure. This is programmedly seen very small problems if - and only if - the data, you see the code and council, are in a computer-locked format. Doing this, which may appear to be a dry and boring subject, can be done with practical and helpful results. Another thing we wouldn't have to worry about is, for example, how changes would have been affected by modification proposals for changes to the bill. We would automatically receive a so - called make change of documents, and we would be much quicker to get into the legal adjustments here planned or made. Then there is no mention. Rather, the update in the library was a game, and it would happen automatically. It would happen as soon as the law was approved at the General Assembly, there would be no need to await this regular update now, twice, three times a year, often for an extensive work to update the entire Law text on the General Assembly site. I'd like to mention this here because you seldom get the opportunity to discuss these matters, the way the law is conducted, and the way it is organized. I think this may be forgotten a little bit at the General Assembly, just for the simple and normal reason that the most advanced members of Congress have a lot of insight into what it is possible to do through technical solutions, provided that the evidence is in order. After all, it's also some kind of library science, I suppose, or at least Some kind of data that people in general have no intense interest in or very rich insights. Rather, there is the opportunity, a respectable president, and I thought it best to speak briefly and mention the section of the Law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u33	Mr. President. I recommend a greater part of the General and Education Committee, with a revised bill for the protection of informers. We had a meeting with the various members listed in the Committee opinion and I'm not going to read them all up. Many put it through reviews, but they did not come to a meeting. The bill suggests that there will be special laws for the informant's position. The objective is that in Iceland, clear legislation on the protection of informants taking into account the indications of international institutions and the condemnations of neighboring countries, which include the best projects in this field. The bill is a major factor in creating the European Union's critical legal position on the protection of expression and information freedom, in accordance with the content of Parliamentary Reunion No. 23/138 of 16 June 2010. You should recall that in this bill, there are two types of exposure that are being cooperated with, i.e. internal and external exposure, and of course, the difference is made. It is based on the latter, i.e. external exposure, if not permitted at all, unless the former were first tested. Internal enlightenment includes that despite the recommendations of law, ethical regulations or agreements of silence or confidentiality, an employee is an employee who has information or data on law violations or other reprehensible conduct in his employer's activities allowed to share such information and data in good faith to a person that may contribute to the leaving of the illegal or reprehensible manner, e.g. to your next boss. Is such a party obligated to contribute to letting go of the bad or reprehensible conduct? It is assumed that in the case of the official staff, there is not only permission to communicate in the above being but also obligation. Outer exposure means that an employee who has had an internal exposure without a reasonable reason to allow a satisfactory response is permitted in a good way to share information or information to outsiders, including the media, as well as to believe that behaviour according to a box might be a prison penalty. The same is true if such a sharing is considered to be otherwise for the sake of the greater public interest, that the interests of the employer or others must be replaced by the interests of being shared by information. A respectable president. The majority of the time the committee required the quality of their faith. In the handling of the matter, the Committee discussed this situation considerably, i.e. that an employee had a good faith and meaning. In 1st. The bill is suggested that the legislation be applied to employees who distinguish in good faith from information or provide data on violations of law or other predestination in the employer's activities. The Commission made quite a number of indications regarding the term "good faith " in the bill's report that the motives of informers were important for whether they should be protected but that this was not part of the general concept's explanation and could cause some problems. About 1st paragraph. The bill in the report makes it clear that in the term "good faith " to which the employee has had a good reason to believe that the information he is transmitted is true but also that he thought for the public to share it and that he had no other option to prevent the controversial behavior. It also shows that employees who deliberately share false or misleading information or information about minor variations in order to attack their employers or others are not protected by the bill. For the commission, it was of prime importance that it could not be a good religion when it was deliberately imparted false or misleading information or information about minor variations. If the purpose of the job was to strike an employer, the explanation alone will not help to prevent the employee from being protected. It was also noted that in a report to the European Court of Human Rights since 2008 in general remarks to the bill, there was a misunderstanding, that the discussion of the conditions of good religion in that section was merely a paraphrase of the court's decision that would not be in line with the details of the bill on the conditions. Then, too, the Court's decision is not in harmony with the results of many other international institutions or neighboring legislation on the concept of good faith, as if it had evolved from the time of the judgment. It was noted that the quality of faith is an important tool for ensuring that employees cannot carry in their light protection regulations to avoid responsibility for the media of confidential information about the workplace that has little or no business with the public. It would be suggested that the condition be evaluable so that, on a case by case basis, an assessment should be made whether an employee could be considered in good faith relative to an incident and the circumstances of the media. The majority agree with these views and believe that the explanation for the term in the bill is in line with the understanding now laid down in international treaties and neighboring legislation. The majority claim that the above core of the term is to be offered as a basis for the interpretation of the law, i.e. that an employee has had good reason to count the information he provides as true but also that he thought in the interests of the public to share it with them and that he has had no other option to prevent such behavior. The majority, however, suggest a change in word order to paragraph 1. so that the law applies to employees who report information or share data in good faith in violation of law or other important practices of their employers' work. The majority feel that with this change, the emphasis is more clearly that good faith defends the fragile or reprehensible way of doing things. A respectable president. We also had a considerable discussion with the handling of this case about the term "employer's ◯. The committee's viewpoint on the need for this concept was made clear, allowing protection to extend to a much wider group. One report with the bill shows that the concept should be clear - up and that it can reach individual contractors. It was noted that the new European Parliament and Council's 2020 directive for informer protection appears to cover a broader group than the proposed bill. The majority agree with these views and the need for the term to include more groups than recruiting and contractors and thus suggest that an explanation of the term "Environment " should be added to Article 1. The bill. In 1st. Section 5. The bill is suggested in companies or other work areas where there are 50 employees or more workers in consultations with employees set rules for handling procedures in the delinquency of employees or other condemned behaviours. For the Committee, there was a view that, according to the law, enterprises were stratified by four measures, i.e. the number of years of work, the number of employees, the number of employees, and the number of workers usually per year. Therefore, the definition of the number of employees should not be clearly defined. The majority agree with these observations and suggest that the number of employees should be targeted on a yearly basis. Six. The bill is suggested that the law be accepted on January 1, 2021. However, the work board called attention to its review that in 2 strategium 7. The bill is submitted to a 2 mg change. 83rd. the management plan, the method of loyalty and safety at work since 1980. The changes include technical refinements that are critical to take force as early as possible to ensure the confidentiality of the Agency's labour board workers on the basis of the complaints that come through the Agency, thus ensuring confidentiality with those who come to the Agency. So most of the part suggests that a-completion 2 is 7. Get value already. The majority contributes to five joints and to more subsets changes in the technical bill. I'm not going to do any further research, but it's in the committee's opinion. Under these publications. The members of the council here, Páll Magnússon, Guðmundur Steindór Valdimarsson, Jón Kolbrún of the Árnadóttir, Birgson of Aarnar, Jándídrimsson, Steinunn Árnadóttir, Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the tour. I'd like to cancel any argument about opinion that has come up. They have heard that this law does not apply when it comes to the conduct of an Icelandic enterprise, which is either illegal or reprehensible in non - Icelandic jurisdiction. I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether it doesn't share my sense that it does, that this law applies to the work of Icelandic companies, even if outside Icelandic jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u35	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I've understood this as well. A senator put it that way. We are familiar with the discussions here on the Samherja, just to be said out loud, and their business abroad, and all that has been reported there, and is in the system. It doesn't work backwards. We can be sure that those who have already appeared and informed about something, whether it was the person I mentioned and business or anyone else, it doesn't work over again. But I think it's very important that all people who have a tax foundation here are here with their companies registered, Icelandic employees working under Icelandic law, should have the rights this bill offers. I think it's very important that we keep up our pace with that approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u36	A respectable president. I just have to say, as it is, I've been in some trouble with this case. As you can see from the documents, I don't have much more of a committee party, I've been thinking about it more and more and more, and, frankly, I'm not really really about to get caught up in my head. I have a measure of concern that I sincerely hope to be indiscriminate and further look forward to because, sooner or later, an EU directive will include that we establish legislation in accordance with that directive. First, though, I must mention the concept as bad. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir went over, and we talked very much on the committee. That is the term "good religion. " I welcome the emphasis that the greater part suggests. I think it is positive, and to explain the concept so that it is more obvious that it should be interpreted as the greater part, so that you need to be in good faith that the information is correct. There's a reason why some sources understood the concept differently, and it's that when it comes to exposure, it's that mine doesn't make an exception. Without exception, we are in an effort to find out who the informant is. That's going to be a lot of racing for those who are discovered. I don't remember an example of exposure because it's not happening and it's very obvious. Similarly, if it is known who is the informant, all of it is done to slander the informant and make him a bad idea. It's a matter of principle. We saw this in Edward Snowdens's revelations, and we saw this in Samherja's introductions and we saw it in various exposures about President Donald Trump, U.S. president of the United States, where people were putting tremendous importance on the identity of the informant to make sure that everyone knows what this informant is a tragic evil person and what she's going to do. This makes the person anxious about setting conditions that are like having good faith. As mentioned above, this was discussed in detail at the committee's meetings, and the committee's opinion is hopefully clear enough to settle any doubt that this does not mean that the informant needs to be some very noble person. There must not be any point to us. The key question for us is, How can we contribute to the need to get to the surface? That is the question we need to ask. If there is any doubt about interpretation or evaluation, it will be extremely shocking to determine whether a informant will be protected or not. Similarly, it is very important for someone who is considering revealing something clearly because much is at stake, even everything. Some informants stake their lives, not just in the sense that people have a spirit, but their lives in the sense that they have possessions, family, and friends. It's got a job, it's got a job to do. If things go wrong, people can lose them all, and there are many examples, such as most researchers, at least Outside, could tell you and probably some people here. So it is very important that this expression be clear. I hope that's clear enough, I'm going to assume that. However, it's my job here to set these laws, so I myself am perfectly sure of them, and honestly, I'm not. Still, I'm glad that the more part is. The commission also mentions that one of the requirements is that the informant considers it to be a public interest source. I'm not sure how the informant should accurately evaluate all of this in any situation or how it all is thought, exactly what is considered to be a public interest. What if this is a informant trying to recover from someone, e.g. a former employer? This view made it clear to the committee that it was indiscriminate, and it should really be so that such informer does not use protection. That attitude is quite common, just because people want other people to be good. In general, we insist on other people that they are not in a course of revenge, but in times of exposure, they are often given vengeance, and they are not our job to judge the informants by whether these are good or bad people or whether they are doing good or bad to a former employer or another person who is being exposed. That is not the role of the legislature. Its role is that the enlightenment can take place, therefore, we protect informers, not because there is a good person or something that works out especially good. That's how I look at at at least that is why I am skeptical about conditions such as the fact that the informant needs to walk this or that he needs to be some good religion somewhere or some objective assessment by the informer himself who controls whether he is protected or not. It is, in its nature, ecstatic, even worse that estimates lie so strong with the informer himself. It's just supposed to be clear. It is really an independent problem how easy it was to misunderstand this bill and the term "good religion. " This is an independent problem because it is not enough for a court of law to be held in accord with these laws. That's not good enough. It will not achieve the goals we are trying to achieve. Possible informants themselves need to read the law and preferably without having to consult with a lawyer. That can be dangerous. Possible informants need to be able to recognize their legal status and to be sure that they will be protected if they choose to expose. That's totally the first step. It is not enough that the Supreme Court entitles it later. The law will not achieve the goal they have intended for the informer to be unsure whether he will be protected or not have the power and the cooling effect long before the case reaches court, except that it is less likely to become above his head because the exposure itself is less likely to occur. Then I'd like to mention only one particular review of why. A lawyer who's got his name pronounced in this pont and pretty often, and that's the Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst. He sent a very interesting review where he tried the bill to a decree that had not been adopted in the EEA contract when it was written on December 11 of that year. It is the directive adopted by the European Parliament and the Council of 23 October 2019, which is a very recent one, and sooner or later it enters the EEA and thus enters this area. I expect we'll accept it. There is a difference between the approach of the subject in this bill and that directive. In a perfect world, we would have made this bill in line with that premeditated directive, to save both time, to avoid doing what we will do later on, and because it is often, as we must know it here, even from all categories, an excellent guide to the European Union's work when it comes to regulations and regulations. We often get a case from which we are simply better equipped than we have the means to be human and human, just because of the few. I strongly expect this case to be completed, not by approval of this bill, but by the time the European Union's Directive is adopted and brought in, we need to create a new bill. I'm sure we'll change these laws, but I don't think they need to be rewritten. I think it would have been a good idea if our timing had fit so that we'd just done it from the beginning. It is also that if this bill becomes that law starts to develop instantaneously, and people in society, potential informants, and perhaps people who worry that something will become revealed about them, the law will begin to be consulted as it is today. It may be confusing and create a problem later in changing approach unless the change is much larger, such as. when we set up new laws on personal protection. Then things changed so much that people realized that they needed to revise things and perhaps most. It was in itself as difficult as it was before, I think, the whole community that was a positive sign if it is gone because there are so many things that needed to be fixed and fixed. These are the warnings I have on this bill. I don't see how I can stand in the way of that, but I'm not quite at the point where I can support it whole, I think, I'm ready for 3rd. Also, I don't think there's any reason to bring this back to the government because it's a delay outside that I'd rather count on the fact that this work will be done quite specifically out of the EEA Directive, and there's no reason for anything else, except to go over it better. A general and educational committee has, as it were, done quite well enough over the matter in that sense. This bill was made simply before this directive was created so that the timing is not quite appropriate for the procedure, I'll be happy to admit it. I still feel sorry and would have liked it to be different. To say this, it is very important to me that it is quite clear that whether a potential informant will feel affection or not to another person to whom he is not concerned. I think it's very important that it's quite clear, and I hope that it's made sense to me that this part's in the committee program and we'll talk about it. Senators here. The objective is to make it possible for people to reveal what needs to be revealed. That's the goal of the legislature. We are not setting a law code that somehow recognizes unpleasant truths, such as drug abuse or some form of drug abuse, as if we were creating a means of managing that problem. The bill is designed to make it possible for people to become informers. It must be the goal, so it should be approached in my opinion. I hope all these concerns of mine are completely incomprehensible, but they're there, and they're going to be minimal out today. How Would You Answer? Any time she's around, let's stop here. However, I must also say that I look forward to seeing the implementation of the government of the introduction of the proposed EEA directive, hoping that there will be no doubt about any of the concepts involved in this important matter party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator fine tore up a number of interesting issues of opinion that came up in the work of the Committee and consult you when you are considering this matter. This good faith is absolutely accurate, it's a bit of a difficult concept, flat-bike, and we get this from the Human Rights Court, i.e. We're having some problems with this definition from which we find a report. I'm not going to spend so much time with it here, but I'd just like to hear if. A senator has wondered about something. I think he's kind of sort of sort of assumes that there's some employee of a company who's telling the truth. What if some employee of a company is lying and is having some kind of evil campaign against an old employer or something like that? I'm not making shoes that are common, but when we put laws, we have to assume all the possibilities. I'm thinking that because of this possibility, somehow it needs to be determined who will be protected and who will not. If someone is lying about a company and is making a heavy charge that leads to damaging this company very much when it is presented in public discussion, perhaps difficult to defend and difficult to deny, such a person should enjoy the kind of protection we are talking about in this bill? It's an interesting question, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u38	A respectable president. I don't make any comments. Of course, informants should tell the truth. My problem is that this understanding is in the community. It was quite clear that the committee's meetings, from some sources that came and talked to us, were somehow something we didn't want to protect, even if it was true. That's what worries me. There is also the fact that when it comes to measuring the truth, we must not forget that it is also the role of the media. If it happens through the media, it's the media that plays a big part in everything that concerns the informants and sources. There is another smell of that speech. The important thing to me is that it's all in itself that this looks like, or can be painted as some kind of evil campaign, we should not think of it as opposed to the informer's supposed to be protected. That's not the main thing. The important thing is that the informants, of course, I expect them to be true and based on the right data, at least that the informant thinks they're right, that he can get up to the surface. I hope that answers the question. My comment is not truthful. I'm such a fan of the truth that I'll be half pissed off the day if I hear someone lying here in a pita. It all happens, has happened more than once and more than twice, unfortunately. However, my comments do not turn it around.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u39	A respectable president. I think we totally agree on this. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator said something like this: I suppose the employee is telling the truth. That is exactly the definition of good faith. That's exactly how I understand good faith, that the person thinks he is telling the truth, and that he thinks in a different way, as well. The senator reasoned that this information is relevant to the public, that it must be published in the public field and that it should be relevant to the public so that the public can develop a view of the company's conduct which will have consequences for the company. That's where we have a public interest definition, i.e. these two things, that the employee is involved in the meaning that this information is true and that this information is relevant to the general public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u40	A respectable president. My problem is that I don't disagree with the bill, I'm not against the bill, and certainly it's not its goals, I still think unpleasant things are vague and vague things that I think are fundamentally obvious and light. I hope I'm wrong. I'm glad to hear it. A senator should have signed the committee's opinion and described it this way because it continues to substantiate the fact that this is as clear as a test. In my opinion, however, at the General Assembly we have a certain tendency to overemphasize legal data. There have been times when people want to come up with something, one member of the committee suggests putting it in the bill's subject text or proposal or what it is, but more recently it is the way of putting it in committees, speeches, and legal explanations, a paper with or about a bill. I'm afraid it's overrated. I think we're talking a little bit too much, so when lawyers and courts start to settle these issues, they always use the legal evidence. On the other hand, when the Law text itself is not enough, they simply have reason to do so. There's no law, it's law, and that's why I don't think it's enough to put it in the legal file. In the theory it should always be enough, but the theory is not real. As far as the information is relevant to the public, I think it is so important that we consider the role of the media. It is their job to decide what is relevant to the public and what is not. I remember the so - called monastery language. There were comments that people can have a clear view of whether they were relevant to the public, to what they found in the media, and to what they did not find in the media. It is important that the media handle this, not judges.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u41	President. I did not resist the temptation to add a few words to this discussion, I say, and squeeze my balloon, for it is quite interesting and touching very important things, and I find it very helpful that the discussion has taken place and is being drawn up at 2nd. We discussed this case in the first place. Board of Directors and Control Committee. Our review did not reveal how to follow a committee party, even though it is mentioned as part of the guests involved in the case, a report that we sent out a report. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. We have access to some of the points mentioned here. I've asked myself some of the questions, such as. Yeah. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has come to the same conclusion as before. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson crossed through here for example What Megas's best record in my mind now means before we started working on it, but now it really matters what it means. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson came before us on the responsibility of the media and their role in evaluating what is public - and certainly so. I myself have received information that has been leaked. I've done it as a journalist in a brown envelope at a parking lot. It has been snuck into my pocket at a bar, has been sent from encrypted addresses, etc. They've been true and on fire, in my opinion, of course. I've written out that news and I haven't. Today, however, the media is not the only way to communicate it to the public that people feel is needed. Each one can do so in a number of ways. This was discussed with the European Union's Directive, and we discussed it only on a board of administrations and monitoring committees as well, and we received a controversial lawyer, including the U.S. to our meeting, and there was the landing in our review, where this is a relatively new release or directive from the European Union that will pass through the whole process we support and have had as our trust and trust, e.g. When we've come up with a situation like the third energy package here in the Generals' sales, it's time to wait for that trial. We don't know what this is going to look like after a discussion with the European Commission, but all these questions were also raised. The management board, as well as the management board. A senator came in because these are true and right and good questions that all of us need to consider. I wanted to put it in here. I understand the bill as it is that it is in good faith here to say that it is not deliberately lying. It's always hard. How will you prove it, whether you are a journalist, to receive an envelope on a parking lot or a informant who runs into any evidence? However, the bill is a progressive step, part of a number of those being stepped to access information and ensure protection, etc. I am happy that this step has taken place, and I am absolutely convinced that these legislation will develop. This has been referred to as the European Union's directive, but in general it will develop these legislation. So I think it's a first step.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u42	A respectable president. I may be in places similar to what I'm looking for. paritaprevir I'm glad the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, I'm glad that at last a whole set of laws on the protection of informers in Iceland, it's a very important step of progress, but I'm in the same place when it comes to the concept of a good faith, I think it's very important that the good faith only applies to the truth of the information that the source is mediating because once there's something else involved, as soon as it turns around the mind that is behind the exposure, we've got a weapon in the hands of those who don't want to get information into public hands. Why do I say that? Why is it that information must not have come out because the informant somehow wanted to attack his employer? Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson merely made us want people to be good, and that's why we want the good minds behind the exposure. But there may also be a good mind behind wanting to attack an employer, whose internal enlightenment is not in order to stop, for example. to pollute groundwater or to stop selling life-threatening products that the employer knows are dangerous. Why should a normal person not want to get even with such an employer, wanting to strike him? It is possible to be a good person and be in a spirit of revenge or to want to attack an employer who does not respond to the natural indications of lawbreakers. That's why I feel like this weird elimination analysis, that the plan was not to attack the employer, not belong here, and be fully commercial. If we know of bad practices and report them, and nothing is done to change them, what should we think of this employer? Should it be warm? Is he supposed to be good? Should we be informing about the wrong practices of our employer with tender affection for the same employer? Or is it possible because the way the employer operates that we informs us about illegal activities has been completely wronged? I just wanted to make it happen that people who want to attack their employer don't necessarily have to be doing it out of a bad mind and can be doing it for the interests of the public. I think the only thing that matters is whether the information is right, whether it is proper in the introduction, and that the matter should not be about what is behind people's minds, since it is always appreciated and therefore a total lottery whether the individual's mind is appreciated or appreciated. This is a warning to me about this bill. Also, I feel disappointed that the European Union and Council directives have not been taken more into account because these legislation will come here, and there is a considerable distinction between e.g. internal and external exposure between the directive and this legislation. It will be a dull thing to break up the definitions that are now introduced into law in another definition when the directive comes here, which it will do and will take effect. I just wanted to come to see that there can be a good mind behind wanting to hit your employer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I just wanted to make it right, and I want to state that I sign this opinion because this is not the particular motive, the good or the evil, held by employees when they come up with information on questionable conduct or legal matters but clearly shows, in the discussion of Article 1. The bill in the report, that in the term "Good Religions " to which the employee is fundamentally concerned, he has good reason to count the information he provides as proof but also that he thought in the interests of the public to share them and that he had no other option to prevent any deliberate conduct. This is how I understand the concept of good religion, and that's the way it is. I don't think that there's a person who's allowed himself to be controlled by whether he's good people or less good people. Rather, it's a reason to believe that the information he presents is true and relevant to the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u44	A respectable president. Maybe it's true that I'm not right to have the concept of a good religion, to be there. This was a great stumbling block in the discussion of the European Parliament and the Council on the current legal directive, i.e. The Council's decree, in the discussions that took place before it went into effect and was almost in order to destroy the foundation that was found there, some Member States' will to give informer protection to the good faith of the informers. What this does is that it raises doubts. It gives us a mental tool to determine whether or not the exposure is valid. To decide what is good in faith, court decisions are put into the hands of the courts. I believe that, of course, this consideration will help you to understand that this applies only to the person who needs to have had a good believe that the information is true. It's fine in itself, but it's worse that the bill is not clear, and it's worse over the head that this term is in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u45	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to a new set of co-work projects on roads. This bill, one of my priorities, has been in preparation at the Ministry since then. Two years to increase the necessary funds for road work. Pressure on land has increased dramatically in recent years, including due to the increased number of tourists. So while we wait for the tourists to return, it is wise to make good use of the time to prepare for the project, with points pointing to the last days and weeks. In other words, the objective of the bill is to increase substantial funds for road construction and meet the great need for transport investment. It is thus estimated that a work together project presented here on roads can produce up to 4,000 years of work involving design in high-tech projects and construction at a time outside those activities that result from such activities. Therefore, this bill is a very important tool in order to promote domestic activities over the years, to promote the economy and to increase the number of jobs. Now that a predictable recession is following the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has presented an investment campaign that includes a significant increase in the financial investment level over the next few years. As a result, this bill also has a welcome investment opportunity, for example, to form for the long - term pension fund, the long - term investment, of 15◯30 years of age. The bill is an important part of gaining additional funds into the investment campaign and creating a powerful cooperation between private and future State. At the same time, the government has put great emphasis on promoting and investing in the interiors of society through a special temporary amount of $18 billion investment, of which the nature of transport workers is about 36%. It is important to react rapidly but also make long-term plans as far as possible in the troubled situation the community is facing, continue to build up roads, airports, and rejects so that society will be well equipped when the Covid-19 epidemic becomes available, and we will see tourists as we saw them. So let's make good use of the time and move on. The government has placed great emphasis on the construction of all its activities, especially on transport. In review, over the last two years, I have provided a road program twice. There is a substantial increase in funds in the council today. The amount of money on the road will increase by 4 billion each year for the next five years. The 214 billion will be rushed within the 15 - year period. The budget for maintenance and service will increase by 1 billion per year for the next 15 years. Then there is a agreement to direct government funding in a transportation contract with the rural areas in the capital area, which will be scheduled later for one 45 billion projects of a total of 120 billion. A transport program for the council also lists the first international flight policies and the first overall policy on public transport between settlements. Transport is a major factor. In addition to the transport program, there is a quick funding and cooperation project on road projects as discussed here. Thus, by quick action as the bill is designed to speed up the budget for projects that would otherwise have had to wait longer than expected. Economics require that cumulative need be met by measures in the interest of safety and practicality. The importance of investments in order to achieve important projects is that it is clear that they will not be hurried unless there are other means of financing. Forebearance is that in July 2018, I requested proposals from a group to new funding routes that could help to speed up the construction of a major transport workers for traffic safety. In April 2018, the work force submitted proposals that presented options for funding and methodology in prioritization of projects. Various methods of financing were implemented and benefits and defects were assessed according to local circumstances. In addition, there were various advantages examined in the organization and the management arrangements for quick funding, including those of the Watch Tower Society. taking into account involvement in the financial affairs of the state. The main basis for the decision to cooperate with road projects is that road users should have a different choice, since a user's fee is not required. The work on which we work together is the key to shorting distances and providing significant improvement in road users. Depending on the cost of business, user fees are expected to be largely dependent on costs and management. In addition, it may be reasoned that a work of cooperation has a maximal advantage when considering the benefits of transport, with more than no demands on the service. In this way, society gets more for the money when it comes to cooperation. In addition, it was found that with this method, there is often a good basis for strong incentive for innovation, which could possibly lead to a reduction in the cost of performance and success in design, performance, and operation. There are a number of reasons why private companies have been consulted to improve the development of transport systems. First, cooperative work can be a way to maintain an investment during a difficult year's trip. Second, a cooperative project is a way to enable the benefits of private transport, in particular innovation and flexibility in the structure and maintenance of the road system. Third, cooperation projects can help the taxpayers get more for their money, the services become a better and risky exchange between government and private interests. Finally, it is proper to note that experience from abroad has shown that private workers usually complete projects in shorter periods than public members, especially where public funding is often distributed in much longer than the need for the project. In order to open up the possibility of larger roads being a government and private cooperation projects, it is necessary to entitle the sources of the road to hide foreign sources by contracting specific projects, their design, the necessary preparation and construction of the workers, their maintenance and management. A respectable president. I'll have a few words on the goal of the bill. It is suggested that the objective is to increase the necessary funds for road work. The bill consists of enforcing for the Vega project, acting in accordance with an assignment, in order to negotiate with a private person on the road to work as a teamwork project. This means that the road structure can assign private workers to care for funding, design, necessary preparation and construction of the projects, as well as maintenance and management for a certain period of time. Cooperation involves paying for the project, including user fees, shades, or fixed pay of state funds for contractors. It is not unusual for a private person to take some financial risks, whether the funding itself and/or the lack of a road weight. Whether traffic forecasts are held is equipment. It is often seen that market members have knowledge and experience that can be used to work at risk projects. Nevertheless, it can be assumed that the contractor's offer to cooperate with the State on projects increases to the level of risk that he accepts in cooperation but to vary in the amount of resources and projects. At the end of a contract, the State will take over the workers'business free of charge. We know this kind of assignment. It's describing the Whalewalk model. The project proposed to be a cooperative project on this bill is as follows: the Ringway northest of Selephoss and bridge of the Elfausá, the highway around the Horn of the Earth, and a new bridge there, Axes Road, a double Hölflfjörður, a highway through the Mýrdal and a tunnel through the mountain of test, and then the Sunway. In all cases, road users have made a different choice as all their projects provide increased traffic security. The bill contains information on each project as well as information that affects the calculation of the user charge, such as the cost programme for which it is available and the information on road shortcuts. The main purpose of the bill is to provide permission to finance partial or total cooperation in the roads. However, the pay period should not begin until the completion of the procedure and will not last longer than 30 years. All or part of the expenditures may depend on construction or construction costs, maintenance, operating, development or naturality of an investment road. The bill is authorized to negotiate that the possession of the workers can be in the contract period, but at the end of the contract period, the workers will be counted as the government's property without a special fee. In some cases it may be reasonable to assume that a government - owned company is concerned with the payment of manpowers and is concerned with paying for private property, as per the closer agreement, that the road office is authorized to form a special company or to hide a special government member to care for the unique aspects of cooperation work. The Parliament and Parliamentary Committees will do well, and the Committee should also consider whether to allow the Road program in particular to be able to borrow in exceptional circumstances if financial funds from private partners are too expensive. This isn't part of the bill, I'm adding this because of the discussion we've had in the last weeks and months. The user fee is further developed in the bill and clearly stated that the registration should be published, the payment of the user fees, and the collection of resources. It is suggested that additional loads be put on if construction is done without paying for access according to a pre-registered currency. Remuneration is expected to occur in most cases spontaneously. It is suggested that the user fees and the additional load beeve that legalized for one year on a vehicle that drives for a resource without paying the user's fee. There is also a requirement to monitor the terms and the terms of the remuneration if the wage is not in accordance with road requirements or rules set on the basis of these requirements. Just about a year ago, plans for the legislation were published in a court of agreement on the government on the 2nd of July, and reports that the bill was published there on November 14 of November. The results of impact assessment by the bill were that of the approval of no increase in financial funds beyond what is expected in the framework of financial transport. A respectable president. The main objective of the bill is to recommend a warrant for the Vega program to negotiate with a private member to have cooperation on specific important projects. Such projects bring benefits in the form of time savings, reductions in environmental impacts, reductions in infrastructure and transport, as well as increased transport safety, all of which contribute to national benefits. In the present situation, the bill answers the urgent need to build up for the coming time, new pressures on the road with increasing tourism. This answers a greater need for increased activity. This answers that there are more lucrative investment options for long - term investments, to make up the pension fund. So I suggest that this bill be referred to the environment and transport committee and 2rd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u46	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. It's good to have this situation in here, and I can't wait to deal with it on a environmental and transport committee. I have a few things that I would love to get answers to at the beginning of the day that we have a chance here. I'd like to ask the Minister a little bit about this with a choice of missions. The review showed only the point of having the law open so that it was just open, that there were conditions to be met, and then the road would come to them with ideas. It's a little special to see in the legal process, and what's in charge of this? One of the conditions is that these are big projects, and it is quite certain that these projects are not all big. What, though, determines that these assignments are urgent? I'd like to curious about a schedule too. If this is how it's done, is it really possible that it's just going to start going fast? At the same time, the natural capital agreement inside, such as a subject on the schedule, is being referred to in this contract for quick charges. I was wondering, in view of the fact that this is a big business that is about bringing in and out of the city and then talking about building on the streets of the city, they're also talking about haste: Have they ever thought that they might not have to be as high as feared in view of the fact that these major projects are being carried out by that strategy? Is there a possibility that there will be some savings in this way for the inhabitants of the capital area that may be expected to pay quickly? How's that play over there? These are the questions in the first round, I have a little more that I'm going to get into the next minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u47	A respectable president. A minute is not a long time to answer big questions. Choice of tasks - why is this not fully open and no task listed? It is simply because it was reasonable for the council to do this by decision, and that these laws could at any given time be changed, increased, or decreased depending on events. In other words, it would not be enough to decide on the terms of a travel arrangement, and then a minister would just self-impose it at any given time. So there is a legal reason why certain tasks are being chosen. These tasks are then selected because some are in the time line so that they can start as soon as the bill is finished. They may then be available at the end of this year and will be started. The road has prepared for this. Others, such as a typical project, have always been spoken of, as is the case with the Shady Way and a double whale - soil march. The smaller projects may be choice and meet conditions in a different way, abbreviated, a traffic security, and a time line. Then, about the interaction with the transport contract, these are the user fees you pay for. But it will be better for the person on the road to the road to take a shorter and safer route to take the old route. This involves the application of the roadfarers at any given time and has nothing to do with the transport arrangements. [[Up front.]] There are other projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u48	Mr. President. I'm going to use the second minute to make a comment, and I'm going to raise questions about wording in the bill, which speaks of the largest use by people who spend most of their time in the world. I understand that men are paying most of what they're going to use, but with a little bit of this, I'm getting a little harder. I refer to a discussion of these cases at earlier levels that included those who used much - and again, I have in mind the people of the capital area who run the big streets that are being paid off, the capital area extended - they were mentioned at some point that it was even some kind of subscription and that the tourists - and there's something special to be talking about in these times we're living now but this is supposed to last longer -- exactly this monopolice, so to be paid, so to say, i.e. higher. So I'm just wondering if they pay the most in terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u49	A respectable president. I just agree with what. A senator, I think this wording needs to be examined because, above all, it is, of course, that the most used, but obviously there will be discounts for mass travel, so the relative city that will be the most likely to go for that trip. So this expression has to be adjusted if there is some misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u50	President. The initiatives allowed to provide a work together, as shown in the bill, are the findings, the round road northest of Selphoss, and a bridge on Selfishäsäsál, etc. The thing that matters there is whether the people who have to use this transport are in favor of paying dues, in favor of going to that arrangement instead of finding another way to finance roads in Iceland. For example, as it would be possible to replace a dollar's amount of fuel, which is a small amount paid for a mile [1 km]. You can use miles to figure out what people are going to pay for, and they're just crossing them on a year's basis. There would be one way. There are other ways to finance this. I don't think the majority of the people in the country would want to pay dues unless they were forced to do so because they would otherwise not be carried out. Yet, it is a key factor in these projects. I'm going to ask the minister, has he ever considered it? Are they the most important people to use the construction, transport reform, in favor of paying roundbacks for this? It is also difficult to see whether the public as a whole is in favor of it or not. It would be interesting if someone polled on charges, at least by what I've heard, the general public would object. It is also important that other roads may be delayed because of this. The government has to bring in some kind of funding because it says that the private person cares for all or in part about financing, or in some other way takes a risk of the construction and operation of public monuments. What is it in whole or in part? We know that the Vault tunnel went in such a way that the State was responsible for various things. Then it all got better, and the state benefit that supervises such things said: It's just as defined by the state's conduct after all the mess and the state's involvement with more and more money. [[The president calls.]] This also needs to be done with care. If a minister starts, you should answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u51	A respectable president. It is good to have an opportunity to correct some of the situations at the same time. Senator. Right away. A senator speaks of other road transport every day as being quite the opposite. By taking the initiatives into other funding, other projects that might be extenuating are quickly rushed. Take, for example, the Elf - Year Bridge, supposed to follow the road, which was to begin with, I think, 2025 and be ready for 2028. Today, when taken out of parentheses, this funding is available between 2025 and 202028 for other projects. That's pretty obvious because it's taken out. The benefits, however, are that it will be completed at the same time that the road, 223 or 2024, by doing so. At that task, most of the work, the views of the population have changed, even encouraging rural governments to move on to some of the places that included. has been selected. Let us take the road around Axi, which would obviously be very back in order for all the projects on the land to take priority. It can be triggered by a desperate wish that the local people will be placed to strengthen their positions in a rural society and be willing to pay a price because it shortens the way some 60 miles [60 km]. This is of benefit to the user. That's the big change. Regarding what the senator went over, he was considering more of the overall rules in the system. It has nothing to do with this. It's the Hagular tunnel model, and if the people in Iceland were asked if they wanted to do what they did, do what they wanted to do, and do this transportation thing all this time, or if they were waiting for their priorities to make it so important that they were ready to do it, I believe that men would have wanted to go to work. [[The president calls.]] The same applies to other projects. Transport exchanges and changes in funding in the system are all a different matter and apart from this. [[The president calls.]] This is a matter of special importance and of great importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u52	This is a special matter in the sense that it is not being watched by revenue models to find an alternative way to obtain income on roads. This is not a special matter in that it is just talking about how to finance roads. You can do so with a mileage, so everyone sits at the same table. We thus finance roads in Iceland. So there's a possibility, well in the picture. Of course, for these projects especially, people may be happy to take certain tasks out of parentheses, i.e. Certain projects have been set aside on prescripts, some of which are taken out of parentheses and financed. It's just that it's not everything. It says here clearly that private people care for total or partial funding. So if the State cares for funding in part, they eventually get money out of a government fund, which is a common fund of citizens, money that might otherwise be paid for other projects. So it must be clear. It's the highest. The secretary of state and transportation to say that what we have here is not relevant? Are these private people to finance this whole thing, or is the government also going to finance it? Then it comes from a common fund of the people of the country. If it's the Hagular model, it's probably worth a lot of people in the country. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, if this is the guard model, there are a lot of people in the country who are really opposed, that the government is set up and hidden as a private project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u53	A respectable president. So I'll reiterate it, it's the Half-Mundre. In terms of part or overall, these six projects have been carried out on two projects, i.e. The desert plain and the Axes, where the traffic's smaller. Although smaller projects are a good idea that the government, in part, funded to maintain low expenses, to maintain payment will, to initiate the process. Still, it fits in equally, in part, directly with a transport plan, to form 50% or 40% depending on what is needed to get started, and then to get to the partners who are ready to implement it. I just want to say that when men set out to take the Waffen March Road gangs, I think I was over 70% who would never drive them. When asked in advance, they are often very negative because there are some people who paint dark pictures. But when people look at the rearview mirror, they say: Of course I would have liked this, and in recent years I would have wanted a lot more such projects, so we would not be stuck with all this need but too little money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u54	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill on the cooperation of a road project. I noticed that a private person can be assigned to collect the roads. We're talking about the amount just over 100 billion, that is, between 103 and 11 billion to 30 years of age. But we know very well - we have the Wallahuin tunnel, not as a role model, but as an example of how things can get out of control - the publicing of projects and other projects so that it could become much more. But if it's done like this, then there'll be six currency in the ring road, six requires that will be paid, maybe five hundred at every place, we don't know, three thousand in all. So who will be the local collector? What's the cost of collecting? It seems to be a mystery. Then there's the other thing that's remarkable in this, and it's just here: his natural profit from his investment. What Is Normal Reunion? Has anyone found out exactly what it is natural to profit from such an investment? I don't think so, and as a result, there will be unpredictable costs. We forget one thing, too. A person who runs that road with $300,000. pay is three thousand dollars to pay. Then there's another one, and he's driving the same way, and he's also paying three thousand, but maybe he's got a million bucks. In itself, he is paying a much lower proportion of his income. Both of them are using the same route, yet the person on the minimum earner pays a larger portion of his income in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u55	A respectable president. It is good to have an opportunity to correct a problem. A senator. This model here is the Whale Farm model. It doesn't mean you're mixing guard tunnels into this. This is not the type. This is quite another example here being suggested. Clearly, the price will vary depending on what the project is and what the benefits are, and the benefits will always be the ones to be used because they can probably drive the other way. There is another choice. It only costs more to drive because it takes longer, it spends more gas because it gets another safer way, shorter, and less cost. So the benefits are his if he goes the way, always. That's the whole point of this. Nevertheless, it is normal for a person who takes the risk of the project to benefit normally, but the improvement is divided between the user and the person taking the risk of building. It's the Haggard tunnel model. And how did it go, boy? Senator? It worked out that the project, the property to the State, was completely delivered to the day and ceased. The exact same thought is to set off fast - speeded missions in order to improve traffic security, to make benefits for those traveling there. The benefits are theirs. They can probably drive the old way. She's just more expensive to the subject. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice, but I can't agree completely with him. Nor did he answer the natural interest of investment. Consider the example of Axi, how many cars go there? What would be the cost of each car? Not many will. You can't imagine that there will be many who drive there. If you are going that way, you are going to pay for the cost that comes from doing so, there are large amounts of money. Has the cost been calculated? True, we know that there is another way to go. [[Up front.]] Isn't that just cheaper? And so any other way?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u57	A respectable president. Take Axi as an example. There's not a lot of traffic expected. It was the year 2018 220 cars a day. The statue, however, is between 60 and 170 miles. If that's a hundred bucks. on a mile, the benefits are 66,000,500,000. except for the shortcut to class What's the whisker? A senator willing to pay for it as a percentage of this amount? [[Up front.]] What does he think is a large sum of money, when this road can be used to shorten, which this would save in transport for those who have not been able to go down to the foam but on the Shire or from the Shire, to shorten this way? This is the benefit that needs to be changed between the user and that is the benefit of going this way - and the risk of going into the program. This involves a model, just like the Whalewalk model. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u58	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this bill and must agree with his statement. I'm glad the government wants to invest in the wood. It can be saved, long time in many parts of the country, and, of course, we're supposed to board sleeves in this regard, especially now. I also agree that the number of jobs here, especially now, is very important, so it's all good and urgent. I have one question for the members involved in this process. It's considered to be the highest. A minister to make it a condition not to be a business - drive or company when he or she goes into the project? That the company or the union we're making up is a failure, as if we've been fighting for many times in the Union when it comes to roommates? Well, we're trying to make an equation in Iceland, and we know that this kind of taxation is more aggressive on those who have the lowest income and the lowest entrance. Because there's a pricing on people regardless of the economy, we can at least do that. Does the government really make sure that such projects are not being made?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u59	A respectable president. The bill is quite open, and it gives us a list of the different factors involved in allowing the Road program to make a deal. Is it merely the financing, or is it the financing, design, construction, business, and maintenance? It is also said to be allowed to negotiate with private members for the collection. But I think the most natural and most likely, and would stand for the making of the road to the state of the state with that company, the body of collecters. So it's an unfashionable company that only handles the collection. Because I couldn't answer it. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson has been developing in Norway that the cost to collect is below 5%. It was much higher when all kinds of profits were involved. I think this is very important. You have to realize, though, that I don't think there's anything out of a project that makes such a cooperative thought that it's done on a social foundation. But there is a risk that needs to be taken from the company that goes into that expense. The question, then, is how this division is. Such negotiations are well - known in our neighboring world of experience. That's why I mentioned earlier that it might be wise to add to the bill a warrant for the roadmaking that it can borrow to start a loan in terms of private funds being too expensive. There is such a model from Denmark, and there was such a case. So the bill is open. It is primarily authorized to carry out these projects. It is defined as these six projects. Then you can plan together how to make the contracts individually.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u60	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It made it clear that if a private partner gets into some kind of trouble, if it becomes more expensive, if something breaks down, the state will run for the baloney. Of course, it is not a great risk to do a private project that is so corrosively loyal with belts and shoulder ties from the State and the taxpayers, and therefore, I reiterate the importance of the state's coming forth and representing its inhabitants and making sure that treaties will not be agreed with those who are going to do so and the partner's hook on it. I think we must understand the importance of such projects that it is not for the purpose of making a lot of money from these projects that are actually never lost. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're talking about transportation, we're talking about road systems, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u61	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here and reiterate what I've said a few times, that in this ideologies, it's for the user. It is cheaper to take the new route. You don't start paying until it's done, it'll cut your time, it's safer, you've got a new job, it's safer. It saves emissions, it's climate-friendly. It is a positive, inexpensive way to the user. Of course, what the contracts are made to make sure that someone is ready to go into the process is the project that the Road program is being made with this. Is this the case with taxpayers or the State? No, it's not. That's just what this needs to be done. The agreements and the lessons we've learned from other countries and the Roadmakers and the Ministry have been studying. Two years have gone very well. All I can ask is what? Councilmen from the city of Reykjavík, the city of mayor, have spoken for reimbursement here: Are they expecting taxpayers to be sold? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't think so. I think people are trying to install a system that works to speed up projects, create jobs, and make a lucrative investment, including for the national pension fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u62	Mr. President. As long as we wait for the case to be brought to the committee after the year 1. may not necessarily be a long talk on my part but rather such a nudge of things that come to mind and answer steroids. This is clear: We have been waiting a long time for this matter. We've been talking about it for a long time, and there's been a long way, both here and outside. I know that those working groups who have been involved - and the list is not supported in the introductions of the bill - have done it a tremendously well, and many were involved. At any given time, we on the Environment and Transport Committee have received some good information about where the situation has been going. So I have no doubt that much and detailed work is behind all of this. I think it is very important when me and the politicians begin now to keep in mind that what really matters is the interests of the public, on the other hand, that they get on their way safely and that the road system serves them, our transport system, as well as the tax that the common people contribute to the fine is also new in that it serves his best interests. And then maybe we'll come to this interaction. We know that it may not have worked as planned over the years, the money we would have wanted to see about transportation, and that's why we're here. What I'm really trying to say is that if we're gonna take a cold interest in it and we're gonna get these things right, this is a way to do it. We have not been opposed unless these paths are less likely to be taken care of, i.e. temporarily abdicating when equal care is maintained and well-validated. There are some things that are good to kill on and, as I say, we take this into the committee and here, my colleagues sit on an Environmental and Transport Committee, including, and we're all somehow masturbating the sleeves. But there are many other issues, and we also have a transport plan, and it has to do with this, of course, and then it's the capital contract. Things like choosing another way to the highest. The minister will be spoken of clearly as one of the coagulators. But I say for my part: I don't think I've driven the Hagland since the Hagland tunnel came, so it may be a mental choice rather than something else. But it's clearly one of the coagulators. What I asked earlier, "Why is it this way? " Why don't we just have clear conditions, and then it's the Roadmaker's way of presenting ideas, it can even be the local community. Of course, they have, and are not the most unlikely to do so at times, in order to develop ideas about how they want to see things happening within each community, agreeing on some business, etc. but it needs to be a interaction of such action and then of those who are funded by taxes directly through transport programs and government funds. Because there was a temple tunnel referred to here, in fact, in other context, this criticism was brought up on all of them as a personal project, and it went a certain way ahead in the order of the state - intensity operation that she was, public action, and many failed when they realized that they had not been at this point in their priorities if they had been from the beginning of public construction. And then you wonder, and that is one of the things that are open in this bill, the proportion of the ones to be paid by the private hand, or we pay by user fees, and the perpetuities, and the proportion of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of money, i.e. how much this has to be in order to justify the priorities of the project, just for example, I specifically mention this from the guard's tunnel experience. So that's one of the things we need to address, i.e. what this task is, how much it should be meant to be included in this package, i.e. how high or low the share is really funded and then how it affects how the budget is calculated. I mentioned it back here in answer to the highest. Minister, the one with the cost of ratio, how we figure this out. It needs to be adjusted to a considerable extent. One of the reasons that we are in the position we now have a road system is a natural huge number of tourists and the fortunes that give us a number of us back up soon, but we also take advantage of the opportunity to build up this wood that is so necessary. While here was full of tourists, the fact is that it didn't work quite well, I'll talk e.g. for parking lots, getting the tourists in, our system wasn't prepared for this, e.g. with rental cars and stuff. I can see from the reviews of this discussion that there are quite harsh comments to the high - traffic fees in the tourism sector. So this is a key - and now I look at the Chairman of the Committee especially because the ball is there - that it's one of the things we're looking at, that we're really good at these things when it comes to the project. Calculations of profits and such - this is an enormous open project. I just have to say, I can't wait to deal with this because if we do this well, we're going to look forward to seeing something that we haven't seen for a very long time, very important. But there is an enormous need to bear in mind that the interests of the public on the other side - they are clearly strong about getting it right - not being eaten, so people start paying extra money and think we're supposed to be doing through a government fund. We're going to have the highest. A minister has a meeting to review these matters. These are big political questions, too. On the one hand, they are very large politics and on the other hand, at least I'd like to see us make it this way that it wouldn't always be political who would decide what would go through because it's just gonna be complicated, it's gonna be difficult. But that's another story. It's just complicated. I think it would be best if we somehow managed to arrange the knots with this case that it was just relatively clear, cold food, which assignment would be in there. They would not be affected by their assignments in designated territories regarding other projects that will be funded from a trust fund. I'm gonna finish this. What a wide range of meditation that was! I can't wait to keep taking the ball from the top. Minister of the Committee, and that's where he's working.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u63	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill to legalize a work-work project on roads. In fact, it can be called the great roadtoll. I'll just say right away that I'm far away from making roads right, and these are excellent projects and a great need for them, and I don't object to them in any way, especially not because of traffic safety, because we know the consequences and how expensive it is for society to make traffic accidents. But there are many questions that persist in these projects, and we can only start by taking what was gone last, and which makes me kind of speechless, that is the Axe Road. According to the bill, the cost is 4 billion, 4,000 million on current prices. It's supposed to pay off in 30 years. If we figure this out, it's a simple account, and if we share these incomes, we're talking about 120 million, in 10 years, 1.2 billion. That's a lot of money. It's so quick to count, and I just couldn't figure it out, but we're talking about 200 to 300 cars, and if we're optimistic and say that there's a way of going that way, there's going to have to be a lot of money to pay for it. If the cars that go around there pay and pay for these expenses, I think it's perfectly clear that most people figure it out that the other section, although it's worth a mile longer. Then, of course, in this case, what it takes to drive each mile is an account of whether people are in a fuel truck, a diesel truck, or a power truck, so it's time we put taxes in a car on a mile - off bill, and then we also come under weight because we know it's not equal. The weight of cars affects broken roads, and we know that the largest cars, freight trucks, and others, should, of course, be the highest - paying factor. But I'm happy with what came out here, but I'm also afraid there's a way to hide the private fee, and I really hope we just go that way. A minister said, and the Norwegian have done, that the kingdom shall take care of this, and it shall be as cheap as it can be, and all of it, one to care for it. Then there is something else that we must consider. As I have often pointed to before and have often been terrified of our roads and, for example, in a lot of shock. At a time when I went north on the Coast, there's this butthole route in the road system, where you're coming in with tools and tools, park some 10 to 15 miles, and then the malar road is coming up for the next 10 to 15 miles, and then it comes back to these pieces, of course, it's expensive, and hopefully it's over. So I'm sure it would be a question of whether and how this will be presented. Will this be extended in its whole or in part to meet the most practical value of this project? Then there is another, and it has been observed that there will be about six currency sides on the road, but as noted, other options can be chosen and to take into account, I take the Vaultway as they are today. There's a driver who gets to the Roadway, and he's only on summer pass on an electric car, and he doesn't go through the tunnel if he's not in a hurry. It's much more practical for him to go by, and that's why I ask: In how many cases are we going to get into such a situation? And then there's a lot of questions we've been pointing to, and I'm also afraid of a lot, that's the cost plan, that it's going off, because it's expected in all cases where there's a lot of things going on -- Alf-y bridge, Hornhjörður, Axway, Havenjoin -- that everywhere there's to be less than ten, plus 20%, and I think that 20% of driving isn't too much to be expected because we know that it can put up unexpected things like this in practice and we have hell to do. We have a temple tunnel as a pattern of how things can go completely out of control, and the cost goes far beyond what can be viewed as normal. Then it's the payback. As I've pointed out, I'm afraid this could be very expensive for those of the lowest pensions and the lowest remunerations because if it's a certain dollar number per car, it says itself that on the higher pay the people make it easier and the cheaper it is for going this way, feeling much less, feeling up to three, four, five times less, in the context of pay paid. I have also pointed out that, of course, this is also true, as we know, of fines. It's very strange if we look at the fines they've been paying, and it's in this bill, that if people go through money - related gates and they don't pay them, they can be confiscated and only taken by people and sold into debt. So when people get in a situation where they have to pay tickets, both traffic fines and other fines, income is a big deal. And that is why it is incredibly unfair in itself when we post it so that, for example, everyone pays the same guilt regardless of the reward. We know that the Finns changed this, and the purpose of fines and fines is the subspecies, that they themselves say that the highest wage is more likely to attract those who are at the lowest rate than those who are at the highest rate of breaking off because in proportion it is more affordable to those who are very well worth it. But if we're looking at what's going on, like the Sunway, it's been on so long that you don't even see it in a mirage, you don't have anything to believe that it's coming. It is somehow as if it is - and you have the feeling of driving because of the road situation in the city that the biggest enemy in the city of Reykjavík is driving, and it doesn't seem to matter what kind of automobiles they are because there is always a more efficient, more efficient automobiles, electric cars, and so forth. It doesn't seem to change anything. It seems to be the policy of shutting down roads rather than of making it easier for traffic to and from the city. I believe and agree very much that it is long ago time to take the round road northeast of Selephos and the bridge across Self - Satisfaction. It is long ago, that bridge, and long ago it is time to go into action, and also on the Horn of the Earth, and the double of the Wrenchroads. It's just the best part. But I'm very worried about the cost and the natural interest of investments, it's been guaranteed that the state of responsibility is on it and I'm afraid that these things, i.e. The cost will be removed from all ties, and there will, unfortunately, be no roof for the sum of individual roads and for the overall impact of the collection of roads during the period under which it is permitted to collect the fees, that it is not under these circumstances. Then it'll just be a matter, as I said with the Axe Road, the cost to him, whether it should in its nature be in there. I think it's a procedure that the little round is that the state should just take care of her; she should not go into this direction. I think this channel is the largest project to take place: the whale, the Elfjörður bridge, the Horny Bridge, and even the highway around the plain of Micr and the tunnel through a mountain of testing, and the famous Sunway when it will be determined. I think we're going to argue about whether there's going to be a tunnel or a bridge or whatever. You're kind of losing faith that something that happens to you comes out of it. But I still hope that it will be, and I also hope that there will be a way to find this process and that it can go because it is necessary. But, as I say, we have to be especially careful that those who have remembered to take advantage of this, that this is not just for those who are more wealthy to get around there, and we also have to make sure that the debt is fair and it comes in on discounts, and then it would also be possible to connect all of these places, and those who drive the most of those places would get the best fees. But it's going to be tough, and I really hope that there's going to be all the angles and things in context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. What I come to say is little more than talk to him. I'd like to emphasize that this bill is not a list of any assigned projects, it must not be taken that way, and maybe it does. The senator's not. This is a much greater authority, an open check on whether this route is available in the six projects. Of course, they vary. He mentioned Axe Road and the Alf - Alf - Year Bridge, a very good example of projects that are different because in one instance, Ax Road, traffic is much smaller than the Alf - Year Bridge and, of course, it is harder to accomplish this effectively. I'd just like to point out that the shortcut is nearly 70 miles [70 to 70 km] short. What does it do to us? Now I'm talking about this 4 billion investment that we'll say comes back in 20 years or maybe 30 years. It's climate, it's a chicken business because these 70 miles are two hours'drive, and it's a groundbreaking case, it's a very tight request for this over there. It is a certain equation that is being created between the regions of East and Eastern Europe. A senator himself mentioned the safety issue. This figure is estimated to be 50 to 60 billion per year in death accidents and other types of accidents, so this is of utmost importance to us. Remember, too, that the number of cars will increase when this road, which is rather boring today, is opened as a whole road. I think that when it comes to this, in the big context, we don't have to get ahead of ourselves worrying that this is a way we can't agree to try. Then I'd like to come in at the expense side here later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. Ari Trausti's senator for the counter-reference, and I completely agree with him. But I see a problem on the Axe Road - and I understand very well that this is an essential road for the people of the East - who are the ones we wander about using most of this road? There are tourists. What are tourists doing? Are they taking a shortcut to Eel's position? No, they'll take the feather. I say my point, in most cases, if I were to go, I don't go there much, but I'd take the feather, I'd like that, unless I was in a hurry. That's why it's a question of how much cost and that's why I took the Axis road out and I think it's a national project, and I would say the necessary state of state as soon as possible, absolutely. Driving Oxi is not fun in the condition that has been run in and out of the road. It is a malar road, and in many respects it is dangerous. I agree, too, that there's nothing like taking it and an elf bridge that's everything else and a much more traffic going on and it's also been a long time to take the traffic out of the Selefos shop. I'm just wondering why it's inside this package, like Axe Road.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u66	Mr. President. Only with the Axe Road back. It is now, for example. I think if we both look to local tourists, foreign tourists, regardless of how much we rolled this bullet, Axer Road will be the biggest hit. I predict that. Then we can just see what happens. Only on this cost. V.E.G. A minister pointed out the average to drive a gas or oil truck 1 mile, that's 100 k. Electric cars aren't involved yet, they're only a few percent, or tweezers, but we're still basically in this old one. What, then, would an Axe Road account be high, 2,000 bucks? Let's just say it will be. People think it's awesome, but it's $6,700. Going the other way because it's the real cost of the car. When it comes to thinking about the economy of people - men pay the fuel and oil a litre and, of course, if they drive the Axe Road, it's gonna cost a lot less, we can call it a tax. And if they drive the longer way, it's more expensive. So for the man who runs a car, whether it's a poor man or a rich man, so I put this on the tip, it's savings, it's paid for someone driving the Axe Road in this case more than significant, it's a big deal besides what I was pointing at. No matter how we look at this, we're always better for everyone except if it's so bad that paying up the four billion people that are going the way. Of course, this needs to be done in a very good way when it is being carried out. Whoever it is, the treasure of life, or anyone else, I trust it will turn out well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. Trausti But if we take this and figure it out as they say, 200 to 300 cars go around every year, we're talking about, in terms of this cost, that the total cost of this project is huge in each car. But I also realize that the Axe Road should be in there, carrying the tunnels down to Seydir off the ferry. These two should be joined together. But it's not in here, it's kind of crazy that all these rural communities have been united, and their main focus is the tunnel, that they start. They demand that this tunnel come because it's there, in the spring and in the fall when people are going to the ferry, at great risk, to stop because of snow, and on a very dangerous road to go. This tunnel should be in there more than the Axe Road. But as I say, this is the kind of project that I stress to be made, but I don't think it should be in this package at all. I would've just split this Axe Road out and put the tunnel, and I'm sure the Easterns would be okay with the tunnels in there and the state would take Axe Road and everyone could be happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u68	A respectable president. Often, when I have new bills in my hands, I start at the back and read myself through them. I often think it's most beneficial, and that's how it was. What I first considered was a chapter on the occasion and the need for legislation. What does it say? Does it say that these laws are necessary because the State cannot prevent them? Does it say that these laws must be approved because the State cannot dig a tunnel? No. The need for this legislation is the state-of-the-art pure religion that the government of every time is so bound by the government's law on public finance, and the excel tables that it shows up, that it must not go to expensive projects although they are economically practical, just because it does not fit into the excel document up in Arnöli. It may be noted that this bill appeared in March and the past - sometimes referred to as a long week in politics, but the last two months have been an eternity. During these two months, the standards for public financial law have gone out of the way, so people now realize the value of the state's entering and building a common foundation for public money rather than using accounting blocks to get past the laws on public finance, such as this bill is largely about. When I finished this chapter, I looked back in the chapter on food. There I was particularly cutting along the environmental impact assessment because these are large and extensive projects that have the environmental impact of the nature of the matter. It's rather thin thirteenth, that part is supplied with these words, by permission of the president: First of all, transport benefits, such as time saving, a reduction in environmental impacts, reductions in infrastructure and vehicles, as well as increased traffic security. In general, the environmental impacts of transport are reduced and are expected to be the six that are discussed in the bill. In fact, this is not always the case, and in fact, it can be taken as an example of one of the projects below, the largest or least the most expensive, the Dizziness Way. Roads are increasing traffic in the capital area. It's just the conclusion of a report that the Minister introduced here a year ago. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ As the waterway increases traffic distance, it is likely to increase total traffic in the capital area (through the phenomenon a supervising demand, e. induced demand), decrease transport incentives, and increase the negative external impacts of traffic, such as air pollution. We must pause at a time in which all activities, especially the prerequisite for transportation, are to be reduced. It's just black on the white side that it doesn't happen by Sunway. Not even significant reductions in the annual year - to - year cycle are pointed to as an advantage of this action but of driving, which is coming up from the north. It will, of course, be shorter for people to drive down from Avéri to Reykjavík than for the people living in the north. [[The point is, I'm not going to drive north...]] In fact, a city line from Southland to the Cape Altaics has far greater transport capacity than does a Bayway. Then there is another negative problem, which appears on the above report on Sunwater, that has not yet been identified as an analysis of what a major investment in transport may be like, but it is possible to make money to the community because we are not talking about small things. We are talking about the cost of building monuments that increase emissions at the same time that we are supposed to be reducing it. But why is the Sunway chosen when there are no strong environmental reasons for it, there are no strong views on easy traffic compared with other options? Yes, that is exactly what the report said and found out how to do a paper with the bill. I'm going to read it, with President's permission: The scope of the project and the clear analysis, as well as the presented assessment of payment will make it practical for a cooperative project. We are suddenly setting priorities for transport improvements on the basis of something that has nothing to do with transport, but only on the basis of how well the relevant procedure fits in some payment model, which is designed to escape the laws on public finances that are well meant to mean nothing other than man - made sentences that are not a matter to be replaced if necessary. I continued reading, Mr. President, wondering what kind of interest is involved in such a bill. Is that what it is, e.g. The interests of the State or ours here at the Council of the Council of the United States to create a means of avoiding such problems as the nature of a transport program to choose the next major transport initiatives on the basis of the total interest rather than the payment and financing options? What about the interests of taxpayers? Because as amazing as it sounds, the bill just says that it is more expensive to go to these projects. It says, by permission of the president: The European environment has been that because of the risk and high financial costs of private partners, cooperation projects cost 20◯30% more than projects that have been funded by conventional methods. Do taxpayers have nothing to say whether they pay a quarter more to drive than they would have to do if they were simply paid out of mutual funds? This has been referred to as an example to the Hagular model and perhaps not for a long way to search, since a double Svellard tunnel is literally one of the bill's suggestions. There's nothing undisputed about the hippopotamus. On top of the conclusions made by Government Reunion that the project had not been less expensive by passing through that model than it had been in the government, the cost of Spal's operating period a billion dollars to charge through the Havenan tunnel, and hundreds of millions of rolling in cash with owners that were better cared for most of the public members, but also privates and investors that reached the hook's partner. And then, by all means, Minister wants us not to call this the Wading-The-Wall model, and I think it might be dedicated because we don't necessarily agree on what it means to say. When I look at a Vadala and the project as a model, I see a project that is put forward under the premise that it is in the hands of a private member, but it's actually a government operation because it's not profitable enough for private people to be able to cope with it. I'm afraid there will be some testing of the smaller projects in this bill added to the Ministry after a group on this model returned. It will likely be considered in a committee. However, there is also a picture here that we may need to pause, which is the basis for building a foundation for global interests rather than whether they can be charged or not, whether public financial legislation should determine the priorities of transport. And then maybe stop just because in the two months that have passed since the premiere of the day, the most unlikely people have said that we are at the turning point and ahead is Iceland 2.0 as the highest level. The Secretary of Economics and Economics has put it. We need to ask ourselves, " Are the projects we are doing today in behalf of the future? ' In a sense, because of the way cases have developed in the last few weeks, this bill has already become an inheritance of the past. It is written within this narrow, financial ideologies that are going bankrupt these days, when general agreements seem to be gaining the importance of the state's living on the foundation of society. When green investments are better and better, it stresses gray investments without environmental assessment. It would be possible to invest in bicycle highways, start a sighting of train transport to land, a large bicycle parking place, and subsidize the exchange from a gas truck to an electric wheel, and what it is now. But this bill needs to be carefully examined by a committee if something is to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u69	President. I have to admit, I was at times surprised by the speech of two people. A senator I thought spoke of as if there were almost outing terms for projects to take, speaks of gray investment projects that should not be used for environmental assessment. It's what it is. A senator that each of these tasks does not have such an estimate? Environmental evaluations are not performed here in the hall of this house, Generalis's wall. And again I was surprised when I heard what was happening. A senator talks like this should start pushing and starting. It is very clear that this is the authority to publish in this way. Of course, all the work done on every major project on the Roadmaker will be started. But not what, Mr. President? It's so far out of the way that half of it would be enough to stand here and act like it's being tried to get past it. Hv. A senator knows better. I'd like to ask you what. A senator for what he said about the Road of Swimming. There were many good things to do. Senator. That's what I'm talking about. A senator against the transport agreement made between all of the rural communities in the capital area and the state, including the United States. Are you concerned about the waterway and the organization and possible projects around it? Of course, with the same originals that I mentioned with all the other projects? That's what I'm talking about. A senator against that contract?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u70	A respectable president. Hv. A senator was surprised when I began talking about environmental assessment in connection with this matter, perhaps chapter 6 of this series is entitled An Assessment of the Effects. The environmental assessment of the effects of the bill and its contents and even though it does not have to measure every hook and tickle of all the work involved, it's about the big picture. The big picture - already the largest project made, as it has been, including in this State report on Sunwater Road - it is grey. Since it has not been worked on the Sunway in a way that is likely to reduce emissions in the capital area, I was surprised to learn that the waterway was introduced into this agreement between state and rural society in the capital area. But it may merely reflect what the starving policy of construction in the capital area, and any conflict in urban development has made the rural communities in this area long-eyed and is eager to tell desperate ones that they are ready to swallow the sour pill that the Daffron Road will hang there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u71	President. I'm not surprised, but it's wrong. A senator if he says my words again, so I'm surprised to hear it again. A senator has mentioned assessments of environmental impact, not at all. I was surprised that I thought it was a problem. A senator would speak as if this were not an assessment of the environmental impact of these projects. Of course I was surprised, because that's absurd. You can't find that kind of food in the bill. Such evaluation must never be found in the law, that the assessment of the environmental impact of individual projects is found there, for we have laws that are being revised today. In fact, I lead a team around there, and hopefully I'll be able to make them even better. That's where the environmental assessment takes place, Mr. President, but not what? Otherwise, we'd be here with a new environmental assessment on Southnes line two. It's quite extensive. That's what I'm talking about. Is it true that such an environmental assessment should follow each individual agency authorized here to do a different way of negotiating funds? It'd be a little strange if it were. I don't think so, Mr President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is deliberately throwing dust into the eyes of those who might be following this discussion. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator knows better and knew well as the former Minister's assistant how all of this works. It would be reasonable, if we want to be reasonable in the way we tell things, to talk about, of course, the environmental impact of the earth. We're trying to strengthen it if something's wrong. But, Mr. President, I cut to it. The senator did not answer the question, the one direct question: Is it? A senator against a contract made by six societies in the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u72	A respectable president. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator thinks I'm throwing dust into people's eyes because it sounds like he's saying the same thing. What I said, what I criticized was that this bill has not been determined by environmental impacts, such as bills are often and often, as larger plans are being made to enter this council. [[Up front.]] To evaluate the environmental effects of the big film displayed in a bill is, of course, not that, as I said in the previous answer, there is a complete environmental assessment of every project discussed in the bill. Of course not! But this is exactly the same thing I said in my previous answer, and I don't realize what the senator is doing saying the same thing and acting like I didn't say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u73	But aren't you going to answer the question?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u74	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a roadside cooperation project. All can be seen from recent discussions that the current budget and maintenance are much short, but necessary. This has been a continuing debate and funding rated significantly behind the bank crash, but achieving the proportion of success has been severed so that the road has some chance of reaching its tails in the maintenance need and in the new need. I've made several interviews here at the council that considering how high or really low the amount of money the state's funds have made from driving and driving, and driving vehicles go to road repair and maintenance, it should only be useful as an incentive to increase that share. But it seems to me at the moment that there is no more part for such a approach at the council, and that has been a test for it. Second, at the beginning of the year, the Central Party made a special suggestion that the roadtype would be granted to obtain access to the matter from a committed project, as it were, that a union would be established that would have the authority to take a substantial amount of loans that would be paid over a longer period of 20, 30, 40 years. I'm not sure we're supposed to get involved in the reimbursement process of 20 years. Their life span is much longer, and we need to look for ways to make it wise in these areas. I want to celebrate -- I hope I'm not giving it the best. A minister's words in the mouth, but I heard him in his background speech earlier mention it as a possibility of work. Environmental and Transport Committees, for example, that there would be a review of a source of loans in a particular partner as part of the implementation of this case. I think it would be wise to consider the committee's opinion because the matter as presented here seems to be a relatively narrow approach to what needs to be done. Of course, it is possible to wonder whether this matter is closely linked, or not, to the events ahead, which are the overall revisions of land traffic costs. But I don't think that's all that matters in itself. I would have liked to see that approach coming at the same time. I think it would have been wise to work these two things together, and in the context of a transport programme that is now being worked on an environmental and transport committee. But I don't think that's the big issue in itself. We need to find a way to get projects going faster. That's what I think is a major problem facing us. In this context I have -- or I'll allow myself to say the entire Central Party - never to be a special object on charges. But while the other two routes are not gone, i.e. to increase the proportion of revenues the state fund receives from driving and driving vehicles or to provide a warrant for going into debt in these areas, we have to look forward to this as a means of solving the problems we face in the financing of transport, and thus always under the premise that the traffic, the driver, the person with the initiatives, will benefit from the implementation, at least as high and preferably higher as the price required. This is, in effect, an emergency plan if the result is to be paid. In the current bill, it would be wise in many ways to redesign the bill - and it will, of course, be considered on the Committee - to some extent, to the extent that it becomes more general and open without me having any implementation on the basis of how this conclusion would be chosen in my opinion. It would be wise to look for an export that would be in place in a frame that could then be added to form a synonym within a written order. This is what I wanted to say in general about the financing and my position on the roads. It's not an option, but while there's no more part to go for either of the two ways, I think the importance of speed of transport is so high that we have to have that way open. I just want to go through my assignments for a while. They're listed in the bill and there are six of them. It is a round road north of Selfishurus and bridge, a highway in the Hornhjörður, Axes Road, a double Hölfjörður, a highway around the Snow Valley, and a tunnel to test the mountain, and, of course, the Sunway. I have to admit, I think, and it seems all that those who wrote the bill got into a bit of a tight position with this approach that there's one way to go. In fact, I notice that one of these projects is not determined by another route. It is a round road around the valley of Micrdal and a tunnel to test mountain. I do not have a basis to read from this text whether the current road will be decomposed or if it will be viewed to prevent winter service, such as alpine in time. Still, this raises the question before each of my assignments, what is another way? When isn't there another way to go? If a bridge breaks apart in the Southland today, we'll make it to Hafnar, just drive north and east. There's always another way. Where should the definition be, and who should make that decision so fair? I don't think it's possible for anyone today to say that driving around Hagjörður is a practical alternative way, compared to the Haggard tunnel for people who go to Reykjavík. It's just not, except for the enormous cost the state's budget has been saved over the last 20 years after the tunnel was opened, so I think it's getting too much nonsense. Of course, this will be considered in the Committee. But what I wanted to do about the projects myself - because this has even been called a Covid case - I haven't quite figured out how that connection will turn out, because if we look at the projects, it's not that part of them is something close to a project. We round the northeast of Selephoss and the bridge of Alpha River are already ahead, the environmental assessment is over, and the road line was introduced into an established organization. Everything's right there. In the course of the Horn Sea of the Earth, environmental assessments are completed and the road line has been established and, as a result, a license has been issued and it has been decided to enter this first section, as stated in the report, by permission of the President: The decision was to enter this section in order to maintain the locator's license open. - I'm sorry, sir. To keep the contract open at the moment, this must be, just a miscalculation. There are two of six projects that are close to time if there's money and there's more to it. Then comes Axe Road. It is not yet done, and we know that these things, especially on a roadline like there, take a considerable amount of time. As for the double Hölfjörður, preparation is not started, as the bill says, and choice of passage cannot be made, so such a project is not nearly in time. As far as the plain of Micrdal and the tunnel of testimonials are concerned, it says, by permission of a president: It is a new project that still has a number of loose ends in preparation. I suppose there's quite a bit of such a thing going to work out. Then we all know, unfortunately, the sad story of the Dizziness Course, and how much has been involved in this vital work. So not many of these six projects offer to get started in some decisive way, and in this context, I'm skeptical of putting this case under the Covid hat, so to speak. I wanted to keep this thing going here. There are tasks in there that I know, as well as a double Halfland march. I drive there most of the days of the year or very many at all, and there's to form a view that road users will have another way, as the bill says: The budget for transport projects is not expected. Estimated as a private and private project. What does this mean, that there will be a physical new Haggard tunnel at the side of those who are now? So as a rationalist, it's a long shot around 50 miles [59 km] from Halfland. I don't know exactly how the writer of the bill got to convince himself that this was a reasonable or reasonable argument on the subject. Of course, there is no shortcut, but there is no shortcut. The current tunnel has become free - free, and so forth. A frequent increase in the discussion has been suggested that it is only required by European Community rules that new tunnels are made parallel to the present. It is all a misunderstanding, and the principle referred to in nearly a tunnel that is opened considerably after the opening of the present Half - land tunnel. So there is one thing that needs to be considered, and I look forward to getting the case to a committee and, in fact, stated in a Senate speech a few weeks ago that I was urging that the fastest would be spoken of and accepted for another impossible case of the government that turns toward a foreign nation. But that was not done, but it is now the highest standard. Minister for this today, and I look forward to taking it for the treatment of the committee. I'd like to repeat one at the end. My first feeling is that a general frame where projects could have been inserted in later stages might have been what -- my experience is that it's the opposite. The Environment and Transport Committee was calling for an agreed transport programme last year. But the situation is clear, and I'm glad it reaches the council and hopes it will be. The Environment and Transport Committee may add some aspects or adapt them to make things better than at present, as my opinion is. But of course, each person seems to be unique. I'm not going to have any more of these words to 1st. and thank you very much. A secretary of transportation back to the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u75	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ólason's trio for a very perfunctory speech. This in which the state's income, income from traffic, and so forth, is sufficient for real transportation, and I'm not so sure, even though they're more successful with the media, that there was material in all the urgency we really need. I've ever heard that about 70,775 percent of the transport procedures that were supposed to be there. The other to some extent goes to the secondary expense of traffic, but I shall not swear for it. I really think we need to go this way. I don't think it was just a coincidence which projects were chosen, selected transportation reforms that are attractive. They're bridges, they're Elfish on the other side, they're the Horn of the Earth, they're the natural Whelf - Avengers, and then they're less attractive on the other side, and why? Yes, just to see if that way will prove to be possible, because, as we have seen, it is not a list of tasks for us to win with little or no means but with no authority. So about this Covid package that I know I had a word for here, that was because it was being shaken here on this bill. I linked it with the transport process, it's a Covid package, because it's being carried out, it's working for people, it's transport, it's transport, it's the other thing that counts, not this bill, and for itself, but it's part of the ability to deliver a transport plan, that this will come on. On this point I was ashamed, negative comments from a senator, and I'm going to come on the other way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson answers, but I wasn't thinking about it at all. paritaprevir and his speech yesterday when I - Yes, that wasn't the meaning. [[What?]] To tell you the truth, it came back to me. paritaprevir he answered that they had died yesterday. But the reason why I actually mention this Covid context is, so to speak, a expectation control. To say, "Hey, it's not a case that's all about to run off as soon as this bill has been completed." There are significant preparations to be made for many of them, so in this context regarding investments and employment in the present, it could only partially fall under that umbrella. About the rate of taxes, because I understood why. paritaprevir so that he was going to enter it in a second answer, maybe it's best to give a little bit--now, well, I'm still going to give premedication for that discussion when I have time. I think that if we were to develop projects that were on the basis of a committed project, whether it were the national company of the Roadmaker or how it was implemented, the current growth environment would be able to get along very well with such a restitution of transportation and with our middle class proposals at the beginning of the year, to see that there would be 150 billion debts of construction, but to use probe, he was not entirely planned for transportation. Yet, such figures are still few in the growth environment we are watching and working today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u77	Mr. President. Thanks again for the answer. When I was talking about the other way, I wasn't talking about that debt line. First in my opponent earlier, I was just doubting that the government's income from traffic would make haste. It may well be that this course of debt is fine. What I meant about the other route was thought - provoking. A senator on what was meant by the other route, i.e. Where it would be possible to avoid going to the same route that would be being put on a cooperative project. Of course, that is the course of action. So if there's a bridge on the Hornfield River, it's about 12 miles [11 km] or 10 miles [13 km] off. That was in the case of Hölfjörður gangs over 60 miles, etc. Of course, it is always clear what is meant by talking about going a different way. Of course, we can go around the country east, that's not what we mean here, or some country road around the Southland, a thick town, and who knows what to get to some way east of, etc. What does that mean? Then, just this Covid thing, we agree that this PPP bill is not a Covid issue, but in the context of which I was discussing Covid issues that are of course relevant to us, whether it is a professional or other economic or transport or what it is, this bill is part of what it is. The Environment and Transport Committee needs to be clear, funded with all logic, just like the capital contract that follows, in order to deliver a transport plan and it's important in the Covid context. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Ari Guðmundsson's report for the counter-relevant action plan is the expected most important strategy to be put through on the structure and development level in the community at the right time. A senator agrees with this. It's not an option for me that this case won't be over right now, and I can feel it in my head too. The Environment and Transport Committee is that the matter, as it were, is the most important thing in the Committee, and such issues as this. Then, of course, you may be waiting to learn more about the extent to which construction bags have been announced by the government, i.e. how their proportion will be spent on road projects. But only if humans have a different choice. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator came to the core of the matter, that the option actually fell off, that was, in effect, the point that I was trying to present in my speech earlier, as when the Half - ravishing tunnel was done at its time, the road actually ran off as a highway 1, the southern city of the capital. Of course, the same will happen with a portion of these projects. So it is not a real option from the development and forward to the future of road users. That's why I've had doubts that there's a reason to link myself to that very specific premise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u79	A respectable president. We are here dealing with political debates and delicate yet very important issues. This bill suggests that a new path will be followed and that the term guide will be used effectively. We are building a guide to how we will shape the future with regard to the construction of transport workers in our country. It is quite simple to believe that this applies only for a longer period of time to the six projects presented in this bill. We are taking the first steps to take, known in many neighboring lands, where there are truly different experiences. Some users, citizens, have been raised up and protests have been made to the point where income - stricken families and individuals are more difficult to deal with. Norway has established an organization against road charges, and it makes the tone clear: Enough is enough. According to the League's chairman, the limit to how much money the state can collect, the big problem is that 70% of the road money in Norway is not going to take the road but to other transports, all of which are good. The struggle is that road roads and road costs are more effective on those with the lowest income. Of course, for this, we're concerned in Iceland, at least. Even officers. It provides an example of a person in Norway who earns 400,000 Norwegian dollars a year and pays a maximum rate of 34,000 Norwegian, i.e. Less than 500,000 Icelandic. The maximum amount of money, like the Norwegian arrangement, is 75 bucks a month. This subject is close to paying about 10% of the revenues in reimbursement. The case is different with a million Norwegian dollars a year. The opinion of this organization is that the State should take it into its own hands. This Norwegian group insists that the State handles this funding to make this equal community distribution, that all in society contribute to the development of these infrastructures because they serve the whole community. This mass group, called by President's permission, Folkeaksjonen nei til mer bompenger, established the political scene in the last year's elections and achieved considerable success, presented in 11 rural governments and in five states, reaching people everywhere, 51 in the countryside, and 17 in the press, reached e.g. Nearly 17% follow to Bergen, Norway's second - largest city, where these issues are very controversial and where people have been very aggressive in paying dues, even within cities. There is a heavy budget in Norway, the road plan is set up to 2020, for about $33 billion, and the road costs are to be paid about 40 billion, i.e. About $380 billion. The share of expenses is multiplying, and it stands as a serious strategist. We in Iceland want to pay attention to all these speculations and concerns in Norway and to learn a lesson from the experiences of the Norwegians and other nations around us. True, Norwegians have been most difficult in this regard. This may be recognized in general, and it has been said that this will not be done in this country; it will be slower. The track's scared anyway. In many places it is thought of ways in which changes in transport methods, road construction initiatives. These are the European Union's issues, the funding of traffic workers and the expenses, of the European Commission's agenda. It is an interest in reforms in this respect, to establish even a harmonisation system on European indicators that do not differentiate between Member States, that is consistent with traffic across the border, and in the relations of the citizens in the Member States. One of the basic messages in this discussion is also environmental, but a fair payment of road transport across the border is emphasized, not to be a random or suitable policy difference between individual countries and between countries. The next EU target, as far as it will be achieved, is the key to paying and paying for the use of human operations in proportion to the use used. It is obvious that traditional fees, like most of us have been paid, are no longer sufficient to ensure the construction and maintenance of the road system. It is informative to read that the European Commission suggests that traditional road keys will gradually be pulled out, but instead there will be temporary temporary temporary temporary temporary user expenditures, which will apply for a particular period of time, one year, one month, or so an even shorter period of time, even one day. There is no reconciliation between these plans or proposals at the EU level, but as far as I can see, it has also been on a program in the EEA and has been in charge of this discussion by the Norwegians. A respectable president. This discussion speaks of road expenses while others refer to pure taxation as well as other costs paid by traffic. They're nuts. The arrangement is unjust, since unlike the size of the family and the economy, it takes an interest in individuals. The costs on fuel and automobiles have paid for many years insufficiently for the construction of transport workers in Iceland. That's a word that has at least Stay on the ground. We've drawn our feet on the funding of these infrastructures as necessary, and we need to make better and complete use of the commercial resources that are available to them. There may be room for that. We do not necessarily have to infiltrate this system for these reasons. We can set up more options than these, and we shall do so. It is practical to look especially at the development of these unique revenues previously marketed for road construction in the past decade. It's a little perfunctory. A respectable president. The person standing here may not have developed a final view in this regard, and his meaning is not under way. One thing is certain, and there is no wisdom, that it is necessary for us to develop a far more efficient, more efficient way of life. It costs money. It's the only way we'll ever be able to do this unless we put more money in this category of litigation. This has the highest level. Ministers have killed, and on this we agree. investing in these important structures also saves a lot of money. Our lives are precious, and we have lost too many directly because of the conditions on the road. We are faced with positive results because such efforts have been made. Consider just one example that is the Smokey Way, a marvelously successful operation to increase traffic security, and we hear much less accidents on the busy journey. The environment is such a second cry - out factor. In this large language, it is important that the council guide the way to many people. We now have a 1st. the bill of an alleged major initiative opening up to work on road projects where the road will only be in part or not at all but the private members can handle the implementation and operation of a particular milestone. They're opening up a financial risk factor for willing investors, as mentioned in Article 3. The bill, and the public are supposed to pay more in addition to the existing fees. Isn't that the way it works? It's risky business to start projects for investors in the state's shelter. Although the exact amount of time spent in the tunnel remains the same for 30 years, the vigil is still the case. In 1st. The bill identifies the initiatives involved in this system, six very different paths, and different advantages. If you put yourself in an investor, the benefits must vary. According to the bill, independence parties or partners can accept individual tasks. It is sobering to consider the ideologies of remuneration as to how collections will be administered in praxize, whether we might look at the number of systems at the same cost. How to ensure that e.g. The management isn't getting out of hand? In Comb 4. has nothing to do with it and will not be understood differently, so it is intended to legalize specifically that the tax and additional burden should rest as an act of legalizing a vehicle that is paid to pay off access to it and that if it does not provide access to it, it should go forward with all the other commitments on the vehicle. Isn't this a full march? In the 3rd. it also helps to ensure that there is no longer more than 30 years for each act. A few years ago, I recall a heavy elder's nap of the Höfjörður project, which is often quoted. There were various thoughts that, in view of circumstances, it would be advisable to continue the payoff for a while, it would have been so good. Happily, it was legally bound, not in the process. I ask and will seek to be clear in the commission whether it is quite clear that if these plans are to be carried out, there will be no extension of the currency unless it is by the coming of the council. A respectable president. The whale has been referred to many times. Ministers have done this more than once today. The Vaults carried out well in all places. However, this was not a bisness, but it was primarily an adverse community project that enjoyed well - intentioned public life, although laws were unsurpassed, of course in Western, Western, Acdéri, in Cities and rural areas, but the benefits were gained by improved, improved, safer transport, and positive environmental impacts. It is empty here to say that there is another way. While humans can flaunt the fact that they are able to lead a whale farm, they think that there is a realistic alternative in the sleeve and the rush of the day. If the authorities, if the greater part, were to open up to the manifestation and the ideologies that an unfavourable task should be considered, it is a far more reasonable approach. I think there are a number of ways in which we can learn quite a lot from the Faeroes. In these terms it would be desirable for the Environment and Transport Committee to discuss this big issue. I am convinced that the committee wants to put forth earnest effort to resolve matters and discuss matters with insight and understanding. A respectable president cannot agree that an ever new curse will be cast out of indifference on the citizens without regard for the economy of the entire community. Let us learn from the experience of our neighbors and do so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u80	A respectable president. We deal with a very important and good matter, which is a cooperation project on road projects. I'm glad we're back on the traditional Congress program. This is one of the things I thought were critical of so-called Covid grass and I think it's even more urgent than before, so I celebrate. I've previously described my opinion that I believe in looking for cooperation with private people, and if you need a payment on a heavy project, I will not oppose them. Of course, such a clear, positive frame of mind must be left over. I do not recommend an increase in tax returns to the public, but let us also look to the future and what is the best way to earn money for our road system, which is so important to all of us? I can't really come up here and talk about transportation any other than to remind all of us the fact that in recent years, capital funds have hardly been observed. I'll lead them to an answer as the highest. A secretary of transportation gave me one council since then, that I think, where it was found that 16% of the new funding had gone through to the capital area where about 70% of the population lives and nearly all tourists pass through. Of course, I'm not saying that we have not been assigned to a country that we have undergone and still have to attack, but it is important to maintain this fact. The more important it is to consider that cooperation with the rural communities in the capital area and I know that we're going to do it only afterwards when the minister of finance recommends his bill. There are opportunities to work with a private worker when it comes to the road. I'd like to mention one example I know well from my country, Mosfellstown, where private citizens who owned land, both Leirvosthommels and Leirvog pitting territory in their time, pressed heavily on the Vega along with Mosfellstown to go to a different corner of the Westland road. It wasn't on schedule at the Road Building, and it had not been found funds at the time to implement them, but they began working on the Convention with the Vega that paid it back in some years. These people also found a more practical and environmental way to implement the procedure. So I think there's a lot of work to do with partners, privates and experts when it comes to seeing if out there might be ideas of making things simpler, environmentally, less expensive and more practical. I'd like to mention in this context specifically on the Sunway. It's a matter of growth that I have an arrangement for the council that I haven't yet made. I'm just going to see how this excellent bill here angers before I go to it, but the suggestion may not be least to describe the political opinions of the person here regarding that project. I believe that the waterway is probably the most efficient but the most expensive way to take over the country all over the country, but it may not be the biggest thing when we have to plan a number of projects. That's why I believe that taking the Sunway only in private may be a good solution. So, the Parliamentary decree that I intend to propose, we'll see how this bill goes, and we'll have to hide the secretary of transportation and the district to prepare and provide the bill for the treatment of the Sunway on our own. I'm going to read a portion of the report I'm writing on the motion, which says that the waterway is one of the most expensively practical tools considered in Iceland's road system. Despite a large increase in new donations in recent years, it is clear that if the waterway should be financed in this way, either a significant increase in government funds would have to be made or a significant decrease in other areas. Therefore, we feel that this arrangement of interpretation has won D.C. Road construction is an ideal project on a private project, so we have intended to assign a transport minister to study that route. In fact, we're talking about a personal project in every respect, i.e. The preparation, funding, and implementation, as well as the management of a set period of time with the fees collected, the state would take over the Dizziness Road. I think it's an important connection. I think the waterway is a very important link to the path of the capital area. It is an added link to the Grafarvogs area, to the city's pavilion system, and a significant reduction of the pressures on the Avenger River River, where the pressures are unacceptable during major periods of stress. Then I'd also like to reiterate that it is important for the public defence to increase the number of connections out of the city, as well as the waterway would cut distances between Kjalarness and central city and improve transport from West and North America to the city. Of course, there would also be significant improvements in traffic through western roads through Mosfellstown. I decided to come up here and mention this specifically. Of course, the breakdown is one of the projects listed in this bill. I think it's important that this bill gains speed and speed up on the environment and transport committee. I hope that the bill will make peace so that it can be started with an even further improvement in our transport system, for as all in this room is aware, we have increased tremendous financial resources for transport in recent years, but it is simply that we need to do more. One way to do so is by means of the bill. In particular, I mention the Sunway, and I'm eager to see if there are no interested people out there who just want to do the job and do it and, of course, enjoy the benefit that it may be for some time, but in the end, I think the benefit will be for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u81	A respectable president. Hv. A senator speaks of just as an inexpensive, more economic and environmental possibilities, and of course everyone can work and work on that goal, I think, whether private or not, I hope that public members are also working toward the goal of making everything less expensive, more economic, and environmentally friendly. If not, then we have very serious problems with certain key users of publicization at all, for in the end, it is just people who take care of this business, wherever they are at work. People are just people, whether in private or in public business. I agree with that. A senator to the Djord is an enormously interesting project, and he has been. It's actually been in the maps for years, decades. There is a reason, it is really necessary for an organization in the capital area. However, there is this decision on the private basis and on the priorities of the projects we are working on in a transport plan and on official fees that are not fully targeted at the moment. The fuel costs and the like have been taken into account and we have set our priorities in a transport program. Then I've complained a little bit over the past few years that you'll never get a full priority order, you don't necessarily get to see the depth, what are the future challenges of the transport program to see if there are any tasks that we're doing in the order above, because obviously we're using the priorities of transport. These are the most important projects, most practical, profitable, environmentally successful, etc. it is the main project we can see, that it should be funded by public funds, but it is missing the others below. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I was wondering what. paritaprevir could help me to see where the Sunway is, just in that order. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u82	A respectable president. Like what? paritaprevir has been on the Daffy Road for a long time in the maps. So it has been on a major organization longer than the one here on earth. In 1975, I think it reached a major organization and has been there since, with a slightly altered picture. This may not be the least of the reasons why I'm speaking of a complete personal project on this project because there have been conflicts about exactly where to use it, what technology to use, and then, of course, the technology and knowledge that have moved ahead in this time period. That's why I think there's an opportunity to see if anyone's interested in going on this project and having the solution from A to O and the business and the capital and all. I'm not saying that public employees are not constantly thinking about practicality, and I think that it's very important that innovation also comes up within the public, just the absolute basis for us to make our system work, that there are people there, and there's powerful innovations. But what I'm talking about is that there are even more opportunities when we use mixed routes and we also turn to private people. It is only often that different ideas arise there when people are in a material position. For this priorities, that is the problem or task we face. There are relatively few of us here in this large and vast country, and we have a large network of roads, and, of course, safety is the first factor. Then come the side of the environment, and then there's a regional policy, so all these factors depend on. That is why this important project, the Sunway, has not come up too high on the list, but this is what is here, because of the financial cost of this project and so many others we can offer reasons for being even more important, so it's just a project that we're stuck with here in this chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u83	A respectable president. This is exactly a bit interesting, that this radical performance is going down on the list because it's so expensive. It's really strange, because when we're here at the council - we're under constitution to work according to our convictions - we get the very priority list of security, efficiency, and things like that to weigh our perspective on how our priorities are going to stamp and say, "It's my conviction right to do this, regardless of the cost of starting at first, we don't get such priorities. After taking into account even the cost we might place in second place when the secretary of finance does not. The minister of finance may put the financial commitments behind them on top of a list. As a result, this important work will be brought to a halt. There's something in these lines that I have some tips on the development of transport plans in general, including financial and financial programmes, how they are worked and priorities between them and really just the projects that are on this list of the Alpha River bridges and the like. Where is this in setting of priorities, regardless of the cost of traffic security, efficiency, interest, environmental considerations, etc.? Where is that list to get us senators to say: These are the most important projects regardless of cost. Of course, we weigh where we place the cost into the account. The result, though, is that for more than four decades, this project has not benefited from costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u84	A respectable president. Perhaps that's why I speak for this way, going on a private project entirely, so if private people could see their advantage in making such an attack, we would let them do it. But this is our mission. I think Dizziness is an important road, but just like I said before, it's not the most important thing. I still set the city line much higher than I did, and it is far more important for all the traffic flow in the capital area as such. Take, for example, the case of Westerners who say that they do not get to the doctor in the year. Of course, we can't put the Sun path in context there and say, "Hey, you'll get another way. " Even though the people in West England can make quite an effort to reach the capital city of some good road, there's no doubt a great way in Kjalarnesi, and I know that at the height. A travel minister is working on it, but then we still have an excellent system for living. But the other can only be environmental, that I think, and more practical to attack this way. That's why I'm recommending the way I represent, i.e. The private enterprise in exactly that process. I'm not saying that when it comes to our transportation, it is the solution to everything, but it would be very exciting to think of these expensive, long - awaited projects in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u85	President. I'm glad we can finally discuss this matter here. In fact, I must say, I am a little surprised to see how few have been in the hall under this discussion. The last time we discussed the matter, I could not understand it, but it prevented us from discussing the fact that a meeting attendance of 20 people was being held. [[Up front.]] Here we are what, four, five, and we've never been more than 12 in the hall under this discussion, I've counted it specifically. But it's a good thing we're beginning to talk about it, because it's one bite in the whole transport business. We're working on a transport plan at the moment. The Environment and Transport Committee, we take a good sound for a discussion on the establishment of a urban society and then it's this case because all of this is one large and more important thing, it's also part of the overall way we look at round-up and the government is looking at a number of things in this regard. Here it is watching, as it has been so many times - I'm not sure that no one ever wondered when the ideas of a Half - ravine tunnel came up in its time that the Half - ravine was to be a word that would be used as often as they have been here today. But that's exactly what we're talking about, and we've been in there, and I'm just gonna come in. It is important to keep the concept in place, what it is like to carry out the projects set out here for special purposes. But I came, Mr. President, into the bigger picture and the pieces of the puzzle, there are plenty of them. Part of them is the capital problem that I believe is one of the best political reports during the current term, that six societies in the capital area, and the state, with all the groups that make more of the local community or in the board of directors, have made up for this progress. It's part of the bigger picture. It's one of our major projects in the coming years because we have a declared goal of stamping out the income products of some kind of fixed income, and I realize that there are definitions that can be lured into but that are the fixed income stock to survive the road. We have the declared purpose of excommunicating him, not of fuel or oil. Therefore, we need to consider how we usually drive, and we are working on it. Here's one bite to the puzzle. Here are some projects that are being watched, some of which are part of another bigger picture. There's been talk of a lot of people, and I'm telling you. paritaprevir In order to avoid making a suggestion before me, President Haraldsdóttir's wife committed the controversial procedure. The members of the council of Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir and Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson spoke of it earlier. In the capital contract, the preparations have been made so that I am not really the reason for being unstable, although such an agreement was reached by stirring a pot again, for of course all the projects that are here - this is a license to be carried out. Of course, there are organizational matters that will go to an environmental assessment that I had a place to say. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson earlier in our discussion. There's been some comments in the discussion on this bill. This is not to be surprising to anyone. The list of these projects was part of the publicity material found on the DCS website from the introduction of the capital contract, which was last year, in which these six projects are directly referred to. Paybacks are all kinds of things. The simple way to criticize the bill is to say that once again people are to be added to the blame and to be giving up on a common financing. This would not be correct criticism, for there is one other way to pay a price. There is a cut-off that is speed and traffic charges, as mentioned in the capital agreements, which are intended to function directly on the road. Then there are clean green road charges that should have the declared target of reducing traffic, fewer people using the man - made automobiles to be paid to make use of. There's also construction fees. These are the ones that are being looked forward to where the implementation charges or expenses should be met within part of the procedure as set up here. I ask all of us who are involved in the important discussion of the future traffic arrangements and their receipts, to talk about responsibility, and to look forward to a number of different ways. As I mentioned earlier, the President is actually authorized to look into and establish a partnership for each of these projects. Of course, it is provided that each act meets all the requirements for such projects, internal organization, etc. This is shown in the report, by permission of a president: 0-2, 0-2. are listed in six characters the tasks allowed to be offered in the ways described at 1 mg. It is important, as I mentioned earlier, to look to it for what kind of payment is being taken care of. It is important to what conditions are for her, which restrictions are placed on her. V.E.G. In his historical history, a minister did well. It will not be paid until it is completed. There will be a choice, people will see either a advantage in the use of the new project and paying for it, or going to the old, maximum payment for 30 years, and the most important thing in my eyes is that the State will then possess the project and all the constructions along with all its property will be owned without a special price. It's that my mind knows a huge part of the bill. Hv. A transport and environment committee has, as I have been in the past, been working on the transport agenda in general. It's a bite of that big puzzle, too, with the bill that comes here. Without my intention to become more dramatic than needed, President, I'm going to say that we, both agents of that committee and then all members of this hall, are now facing a new thought when it comes to traffic. We face the challenge of rethinking traffic in Iceland. This is part of it. The issues I have considered are also, and I hope that we will succeed as soon as possible in making the cases before the council, both here and there. The Environment and Transport Committee is already, on the basis of the legislation to work on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u86	A respectable president. There are two things I want to talk to you about. A senator. On the one hand, it is this new funding after the fuel and diesel prices, how we manage to finance, as we do today, the transport system, which fails to cover the transport programmes. The tents do not cover part of the transport projects proposed for transport, as they have always been. True, some have gleaned for credit taxes and such things as those on a more general basis and have compared taxes with the projects. It may not be quite fair, but it is a certain viewpoint, all right? But I hope the fuel stock is disappearing. From my point of view, the only way to use a mileometer is to use it, just as if we have a thermometer, a power gauge, etc. at home with us on the use of the transportation system, if I allow myself to think very briefly about it. Regarding my priorities, I wondered if any of these projects or possibly all of them are actually put aside for transportation because they are simply suitable for this financing model. Are they possible, on the grounds of traffic safety, etc, the important thing that they should be in the transport program financed by the public funds collected in a transport programme? As shown in the discussion of why. paritaprevir The secretive nature of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir about the Sunwater Railway is put down because they are suitable for this model. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u87	Madam President. In terms of financing, once we've achieved the good goal of excluding oil and gasoline costs by making clean and bright energy exchanges in transport, I'm excitedly waiting for the results of a financial group that has been ordered and is working on what the best way is. I've heard all kinds of ideas about it. I see the pros and cons of a lot of ideas. I see a lot of benefits on a kilometric idea like what it looks like. A senator mentioned. There's a problem with her, too. There are all kinds of ways. We are not the first country in the world to go that way. I am impressed by the way things have been done in other countries. I know that's what they're doing. I'll no doubt have a greater view of this when I've finished studying the work that the group is producing, and hopefully soon. I can talk about my ideas, and I feel that there are a number of viewpoints that need to be considered in this regard, but I'm open to as the most reasonable and efficient way. I hope, Mr President, to what? A senator will not hold that against me, even though I do not go to more detail right now. In regard to priorities, it is clear in the bill that these initiatives are a key policy based on traffic security and based policy, as well as emphasis on in all cases the selection of road users. I trust that in setting priorities in a transport program, where a declared policy is to have the security issues and other viewpoints in the foregrounds, it has been done. Maybe I'll come in a little bit better on it next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u88	A respectable president. Of course, if the results of the group include a good explanation of why the cost of a mile is unacceptable and something else is better, I am willing to change my mind. But I have lived in countries where there is roadtoll and stuff like that and after I'm overcrowded and compared with those opinions at the moment. But new evidence can always change one's idea of what's true and true. In regard to priorities, such as cognition. A senator reads up, it's simply a project that has to do with security. The bridge by Selephoss is an example of this, and perhaps a Way of Swim by Mosfellsville would be interesting too. That's why I ask: Are these projects really important that they should be the top priority of the list that they are part of a transport program like that? Their priorities are lower, leaving the budget that has already been paid for the most important projects in terms of fuel - related traffic security, etc. It's easy to charge a price for going over a bridge, it's easy to charge a road over Axi if you go along that way, there's nothing else that's available but turn around and go around. This is a good job, if you put it that way, for this financing model. I'm always trying to figure out how the priorities art was before it was decided to prosecuting this, depending on how the financing model worked for each road, because it certainly makes a lot of difference for people in the area, on tax payments and fees, when one community gets this kind of performance and not the next.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u89	President. I agree with what. A senator sees the data coming from the work force and, of course, all the data that we can share with him. I have heard various viewpoints regarding criticism of all routes, personal protection issues, and viewpoints that concern looking at miles of cars. Are you going to pay the same centenarian number for a mile on a hollow road as on a crumbling track? You're paying for the same thing for the gas cylinder. There are some such views. I'm just open to it, and I think I am and what. A senator will likely have discussions on these matters when they arrive at the council. In regard to priorities, I can only repeat what I said, that a set of priorities are set in a transport program, and I trust that when the road and the Ministry won their priorities and set up a transport program, either five or twelve years of age, they were followed. I don't have any grounds to wonder, I wasn't at this job. I'm looking at this, like I was trying to come into my speech, as one big picture. It would be wise for me to make sure all the pieces of the puzzle fall into place. What happens if something doesn't change its priorities? I don't have the basis to stand here and say it does. I trust that, as I say, at work that was done in priorities in the transport program, the standards were applied.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u90	Madam President. I'm going to say something about this bill from the highest level. Transporter on the cooperation projects on roads. True, this is a controversial, political issue that we are here to discuss, and it has clearly been evident in this discussion. Councilmen who brought up before me. It is a large political issue that deals with increased penalty for car owners and road users. That's the point. The government chooses to throw it into the council now in the middle of a epidemic, which is like throwing in a chicken house in the middle of the cod, and not just that, but there are no tourists now, but it was the very ones who were supposed to pay most of these projects. This was the way it should be, and the place where it is just in it. But hopefully the tourists will return as soon as possible, and we can make them pay for their desperate road systems. This is a controversial issue, but it is necessary to undergo marvelous improvements and innovations in the road system and have so been for many years. The road system has increased much faster than its structure, at least In the last ten years, if not anymore, mainly because of the growth of tourists. With increased traffic, road safety has been reduced, due to increased traffic on narrow and often bad roads. However, we have not been severely affected by accidents based on official figures. Although serious accidents may not have decreased, the number of fatal accidents has been substantially reduced over the last few years. I have often felt that driving has improved dramatically in recent decades. Also due to the development of a driving area, such as the development of much progress, high - driving, and other factors as well as the security of areas around us and on major roads. This has increased the awareness of drivers and road users by education and other means. The roads have been our aggressors in recent years, and they are actually dangerous in many long chapters. So it is very important to take up a new venture, as it seems to be expected in this bill, using the method of negotiating with private partners for their complete or part of their implementation, and then to collect a road tax. Of course, that's just half the story because we don't have it. We don't have a transfer, e.g. in the amount of the weighed money, it is covered with anger. Many of these projects have not gone further into the government program but only as ideas and hardly at the drawing table, e.g. A channel that is only a dream that takes many years to reach some stage of construction. I haven't objected to the charges, Madam President, but it seems clear that tourists are paying much of this damage, or it seemed like this virus epidemic had arrived. Their journey was so great that last year, in large measure, the spells would land on tourists and local travelers or those who had to go to work would be a great discount, and this would be a small charge that there was something that men could possibly bear. When I arrived on the Environment Commission last year, I agreed on it with a specific advance, which included a series of instructions. in what I'm talking about here. I will not challenge road expenses to account for the loss of cars and car owners, so this is not an increase in spells on normal citizens, an ordinary man who has to go e.g. to work or where it is going or where it is necessary. Or it may be great that the distance savings is counterproductive. But in many of the situations mentioned on the bill, such as the Elfjörður Bridge, this is not the case if I take it as an example, which saves 400 yards. Of course, the payment on such a project could not be too high to save some money for those traveling there. This could save time, not money. Of course, it's all a shame because there's no plans for what people have to pay, how much this costs, how many years, etc. I would have also wanted to see in this bill how the government was going to bring down other charges at the same time, against those charges. It was in general about the bill. If I give myself some time on the bill myself, I'll have questions and concerns about Article 1. There are six ways or projects and no more. Why is this not simply an open source, avoiding mention of these six projects, especially because some of the projects are very distant? So I make comments on 1st paragraph. there are six projects, rather than just a general authority to negotiate with private citizens and thereafter to be paid for them for a certain period of time. About the duration of Article 3. it is said that a payment for each act can last for 30 years. I think it's all right. While men may wish to have a table and possibly reduce the price by a few percent, it can be noted that there was a payoff in the Havenan tunnel for 20 years and that many were busy and far enough at the time of its opening. People looked forward to getting away from it, but then 20 years later, and I feel that 30 years is a long time for one project. Of course, this will be discussed in a transportation committee, where I sit and this will be discussed with visitors and clients. I think it's a very long time, and before you know it, there will be more projects on this list that must be taken in our difficult transport land. Here are the empty feathers and mountains that need to be bridged or drilled, so it is not missing on the wish list. I'm going to do a little on these six projects, but before I do, I'm going to come to Section 4. First, I feel that this is a long - range source. This is a broad record of the person who collects this fee, the guardian, or whatever name he is named in this bill. He has very extensive sources according to the bill to collect the tax and the additional load. There are some provisions that he needs, e.g. Not to go to court or to agree or anything like that but to go directly to an forced sale on a vehicle. In so doing, he too has legalized the vehicle. I haven't made it up to myself if I'm opposed to this, but I like it. At any rate, I would like to warn against paying bills or mortgages on a car where the owner's car is not to be found, i.e. If he borrows somebody's car and he sees a drive through there and he gets the stress. Then, according to the bill, it probably goes to the car, and there's a mortgage on the car. Of course, it's not the owner's fault, and he can totally come out of the mountains, perhaps later, and must be put on trial because the car will be set on auction if he doesn't get angry with the money as soon as possible. In this regard, I want to point out the highest. To be noted, this is usually a very low cost, a very low amount that collects relatively large costs. In view of many other collections, these charges are low, and I realize that people can't drive through a tunnel all the time without paying for them, of course they have to pay for that fee somehow. But once or something like that is very harsh and expensive. I generally think this, without me making it up to myself whether I'm completely against it, quite broad sources of 4. gr., especially with the borrower, I mean the extra load, not perhaps the expenses myself. If he drives through there with no respect for payment, the owner gets the jar and a bet on the car. The time is so fast that I'm going to finish what I was going to go through, so I don't have to give another speech. But I wondered about these six projects: Is there any agreement of these six in front of me? Is this about to happen this summer or fall? Is this a matter of movement, since it is now being submitted, late in spring, and in the middle of a epidemic? I don't think it's the waterway. I can read it up here, but it looks like years before she gets to some level. I don't think so. That's what I'm thinking. I was going to have more work to do, but I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u91	A respectable president. Hv. A senator pointed out that at times it is the question of how expensive things are. Regarding Vadal honor tunnels, it did not go on for very long what the cost would be for them. At least I'm concerned that some of these projects could be just such a best practice while others are definitely Hahbjörður, such as e.g. Double of the Hahfjörður tunnel. So there are pros and cons in the projects here. But I have continued to have questions about where they really are in priority with regard to transport and when I consider the matter in that light, from the perspective of the policy plan, these projects are somewhere in priority order when it comes to everything. And the question we have to ask ourselves is about the expenses we collect to finance gas costs and so forth, and natural only by taxes, because we make more money than we can get through the previously marketed income. But we need to ask ourselves, for we just want to finance more than the amount of money that these marketd income reached, how we do so. Are we doing so by means of a tax price? And with what reasoning do we bring certain projects higher in the priorities of the plan, which have not already been paid for by the collection of taxes in the years to come? Or are we raising other curses? Are we raising the gas charge, or are we borrowing loans that we pay with interest on the project being prepared? Or do we slow down, especially from service? These are questions you have when you see a suggestion like this, based on the precise choice of these projects in order to fit the charges. I think it's interesting, but it hasn't been explained, and I thought it hadn't. A senator makes a good impression on that subject. [[The president calls.]] The question is, How expensive is it? [[The president calls.]] There are many unsettled questions before we settle this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u92	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The woman Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for his meditation on this subject. That is just right, and interesting thoughts about priorities. What is the priority? If we only watch these six projects, I think it's the most urgent, and I think most people could agree, to go very fast on the Sunway, I think it is. However, it is the longest away from us in time, and probably the longest of all six projects, so priorities may not be put out on the idea of who best uses us, where the need is most, where is the biggest traffic, where are most of the accidents, etc. It's not that. It's, first of all, some kind of political tape, and second, some kind of work that's going badly, like the Sun path; where it should be, it should be there or here, under or over, etc. This gives the problem, as other projects may be simpler and more difficult to deal with. They'll get back on their list of priorities. Such reflections are not a cause for concern. The senator is fully justified, and I welcome them and may further approach them in my second answer. But I would keep, e.g. with the bridge over Elfish, which, of course, I welcome very much, much like the highest. A secretary of transportation, perhaps more is in sight than the Sunway. I'm glad she gets to the top when the current bridge goes away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u93	A respectable president. Let us consider just the options we have if we just think about the transport program as such and then on the roadside. In some countries, road costs are useful to all the people, transport to all citizens, although some use less than others, depending on their dwellings, but all around the country are being improved in a variety of ways in the transport system. Then you may wonder: " If there is to be some injection in the construction of a transport project, why is it not just a small increase in the total cost rather than set a road tax on one nearby community? It has a truly economic impact on that community, although, of course, the benefits are also made, most likely in that closer community. But the same is true of all the other projects that are being tried to destroy all over the country. There are three over the South, one in the West and one in the East and one in the capital area. In other words, the last one was in the north country, the Caddy Hall, and that is part of this model. I called for a similar project in the Valathian debate when it became fairly clear that it would fall over to the State anyway, whether other parts of the country would not want to have similar projects, since it was really a state-sized project, which would have probably been simpler and inexpensive to pay only by raising the fuel price a little rather than paying for these particular years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u94	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for these questions and speculations. I also wondered about the uncertainty he encountered in his first question. I think that in these six projects, there is the uncertainty most in the Hagland tunnel, and of course it would also be uncertain if there was a channel in the tunnel under the channel, it could be a lot there. Of course, everywhere there is some uncertainty, but maybe not a big one in the others, I think, if I remember correctly, I may forget one of them. Then I wondered about the currency, savings, priorities, and shortcuts, like at Selephoss, where the savings are only 400 m. Of the Vikings of Snow Valley, he's two miles, maybe three. In the Hornfjords, it's 12 miles. Of course, people save gasoline and travel time and may be able to pay up some amount of money between them. But I would like to repeat what I said in my speech that the middle class has opposed the increase in the price of car owners, if this route had to be gone, something would have to come back. First, there would have to be some savings on the road in time and distance, of course, and then some sort of decrease in car owners' curses as well as discounts. This route is completely unexplored about how much this would be, how much savings it would be, and what the government's going to take for that long. Is that 30 years, 10 years, 15 years? It's just the frame, that's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u95	Madam President. This has been an interesting discussion of controversial matters, as has been shown by members of Parliaments who have just emphasized that it is not quite the time to present such issues now when we are dealing with the viral epidemic and important issues associated with it. So it would be a bit strange for me to bring up a case that is so controversial and that is not a solidarity among the people in terms of remuneration and an increase in tax recovery, perhaps something that may be something that the public of the country does not need in these difficult times, in times of unemployment, and when families have less between their hands. This bill allows the road model to make a contract with a private member on a so-called co-operation project on specific transport projects. So this is, in effect, a private rat, so to speak, a road rat, or a road block. I think it's personal normal just to call it the private funding of transport projects. I don't think a cooperation project is relevant, it's just a private project, and then the state comes to pay for it in the end, and that's what it's all about. The Independence Party has been particularly interested in this, and here the members of the Independence Party have expressed their joy with the bill and have been particularly interested in the introduction of private transport initiatives, as well as in various interest groups of stakeholders, companies and investors, called very after the arrival of private partners for the construction of the past few years and particularly for transport. Madam President. Of course, the personal enterprise has much to do in various areas, and I do not view it as being spoken down specifically. This is a small question about politics and how men are involved in it and how they envision significant developments in the future in this regard. Of course, it has called attention to the highest level. At the council, a secretary of transportation was strongly opposed to this route, reminding me that when he sat down in the transport minister's seat, although the export may have been changed only from the original point of view. Here's a suggestion that humans have a choice that may not have initially. There are some ways that cooperation has been successful, but sometimes it is little more than hidden loans in fact because the government is taking over considerable long-term financial commitments to private companies. It has to be kept in mind, and it has been observed here that the financial expenses of a private driver are equal to those of the state. That is why it is usually more practical for the state to finance projects in the usual way than for private workers to do so in adverse loans. It's been pointed out. The European Union has had this examined specifically, and their accountants have studied cooperation projects with private partners, including on a road program, and they decide that this arrangement has not been successful. I feel like there's a bit of this discussion, looking to people who know it very well and have studied it, and we're naturally to learn from it. These are political parties and members of the European Union, who are deeply looking at things they think are of the good, and I would say that there is something that strongly points to the fact that this is not the most acceptable way of thinking and that it should, of course, be considered. The faults are varied according to their judgment, and the benefits are also limited. In Britain there has been overemphasis on cooperation, the privatization of infrastructure, and, unfortunately, that way is fraught with thorns. The prime minister of Britain, Boris Johnson, went so far as to call such projects stealing, referring to the enormous cost they have spent on the taxpayers, and then there has been a lack of maintenance and so on, when the private enterprise has emphasized the greatest profit. We know at home the high cost of the Vádle-leaf tunnel, so there are cases from here also that cost has gone beyond control. The bill's report highlights a number of factors that are worth stopping. First, the increased attendance of a private party is specifically justified in the need for this by government laws or financial regulations and, in fact, no other choice. This calls for cooperation in place of traditional investments, which are being run over by the state fund. Thus, according to this principle, the cost of transportation is, in effect, not exactly a practical approach, but to ensure that the costs of transport work fall outside the State books and thus remain within the laws on public finances. This is a very interesting approach that I feel is not being given too much attention. This is interesting in view of the fact that, as I said, the European Union has specifically warned against the approach to choosing cooperation projects ahead of other advantages for some of the accounting reasons. It is equally interesting, however, that in the bill's report it is recognized that Europe's experience was that because of the transfer of risks and higher financial costs, the joint work cost 20◯30% more than projects that have been funded by the standard method. Granted, it is important to engage in the transport projects outlined in the bill, and all of these are fine projects such as the highways northest of Selofos, a bridge on Selfish, a round road around the Horn of the Earth, Axes Road, a double Hölflfjörður, a highway around the Mýrdal, and a tunnel of testing and Sunwater. All of this is an important project that we would have wanted to get into the program as soon as possible, but the question is: Are the taxpayers willing to pay up to 30% more for going this way? I think that's just a very reasonable question. The government seems to take account of the holy truth that the public is burdensome and inaccessible when it comes to implementing, but the private sector is more flexible and creative. Then you say, "Is that the government's message for e.g. The road arrangement and the fine people in it? The report of such projects by the European Union's accountants, which I referred to, depends on the level of delays in these cooperation activities, the lack of competition, i.e. Participation in tenders, and costs were greatly exceeded. You might ask, " Is there any reason to believe this is going to work out better here? ' The natural purpose is to increase. ..................................................... The work of the Committee needs to be carefully reviewed and given particular attention to the cases showing that more money is being spent on these projects in particular. They seem more expensive. All of us know that transport investment needs a great need and a need to improve traffic security and statues, etc. We agree on all of this, and of course all these projects on the bill are important. Who doesn't want to drive through a new Elfjörður bridge and a new Axe Road and through a mountain of testing, etc.? The question is, Are road users willing to pay the price set up there? What will be the price? The price, though, has been high. The bill also shows that those who drive for construction without paying for it may be at risk of taking a bet on their vehicles. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason did well earlier that the work at the Committee has to be done very carefully. There are extensive sources, and this pledge is more than any other commitment on the vehicle except the financial fees. Then any forced sale on the vehicle could be demanded without the premeditation, if the debt was not paid. It is a vast source of information that you give in advance and need to review carefully. All of this naturally results in the cost of government funds, the collection, and all that goes with it. V.E.G. A minister in his ledger speech, as I recall, said that a system is being installed that works. All right. Of course, private workers can cover transport projects. I agree with that, and we have a good example of that, i.e. A whale tunnel, and I'm not going to belittle it at all. But it's just a question about that way. Are we willing to pay 201⁄230% higher prices for a route that has been shown through research in the European Union, we have examples from Britain, and we have examples here in Iceland, such as. Cradle tunnels, where things go way beyond all schedules? These factors must be very carefully considered on my behalf in the work of the Committee, Mrs. President. I've got a lot of emphasis on that. As noted in the Middle East, we have emphasized that the road route of roads is not good unless there is a decrease in other fees against automobile owners, who have become far too high on the land to my judgment. This is only a change of course, and now it is emphasized that there is an alternative way for the individual to go. Then you come to the safety of traffic and whether alternative options will not be as maintained in snowstorm as you are. I know now, for example. that the experience in the Vaddle tunnel is that it has been detracted from snowstorm, the security factor, for those not going through the tunnel These are all the things that have to be done carefully and think about all the possibilities and how this could develop because we have only examples that show that it can be more dangerous to choose the option that is being offered that is not paid for. [[The president calls.]] However, Mrs. President, I expect that all of these aspects of the committee's work will be carefully reviewed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u96	A respectable president. A while ago, I asked the secretary of transportation and rural administration about roads. I asked: What is the real type of road to a road file, and what type is desirable for each track when only according to public traffic forecasts? We have a road file that has a list of desired roads for the next 20 years, i.e. when building on some particular road, it is desirable to be built in this species, and not another one, etc. The type depends on the width and width of the shoulder on the road and on the manner of the road. What is truly interesting, as shown in the reply of a minister, is that the road simply does not know which kind of road to Iceland really is. If I wanted to ask you about a road somewhere in the North, what would be the answer: "I don't know. " We have to go over there and take a look. Yet, the road model built this section, probably according to a schedule on which road type was chosen at that site. I was surprised that there were no information and a summary of the roads we were driving about. When I was being considered on the Forest Route, I noticed that people from the Smokelands band came to us and presented us the roads here and around us that would have to be updated instead of going the other way, etc. They said all they had to do was make small improvements. But when we asked about it, the road model said that the roads were really different from road files. In fact, up to half of the roads are not registered correctly. It is very interesting when we consider which roads we should prioritize for traffic safety and really what is desirable, since we are likely to want to know what the situation is now to compare with how we want things to work out whether or not we'll be able to get some results in traffic security. But there isn't, so it's very interesting because I assume that the government at least tries to explain why one person is selected above another. Official financial laws are very much about what I work on, not being visualized, which say these are the possibilities, A, B, and C. If we choose A, it's gonna cost this much and we're gonna make a lot of money, if we pick B options, it's something else, etc. However, this simply allows us to see a road program that is a final list, a set of priorities, but we are not able to see the priorities involved. Why is this operation on top of the list more important than others? There may be good reasons, but we may not be able to see them. What is the first project that could not be made up of a transport plan? What challenge is that, and why did she not get in? I think it is necessary for the General and really the nation to know that these data are basic to the transport process in order to make a decision on transport funding, whether or not there are various ways to finance the overall policy. Are we going on a targeted fund - raising campaign as if it were a road tax? Perhaps it is in one process and not another. Are we generally just raising such subsidies as fuel, in order to finance the scope of transport? It might be very clever to do in the sense that the road system's pressures have increased tremendously in recent years. The need for maintenance has increased tremendously, and there are just people driving and causing this added stress that is needed to sustain them and that has a special currency to pay for them. There's some structure here. Is it a general means of improving transportation, or is it a special means of transport? There is no explanation like that. Overall, the transport programme is funded by a specific or general budget of funding through duty, but in recent years, the scope of transport schemes has been higher than the general financing initiatives, the public, the general pot we all sit on with the income tax and the company's credit, etc., fishing expenditures and all of this into the big pot. And out of it we've been funding extra transport improvements. It's a matter of politics, whether it should be done in general or only through the general financing route, which would be the car expenses. That I know it's quite good to keep this salt of the roads in between, that not everything is funded by the fuel costs, since it's certainly a good thing as more than necessarily just those who drive the streets by having good transportation. But the discussion will never get there. It often stops, however, that the car - car tax is being superseded, which would otherwise finance the transportation system. And all right, there may be evidence behind that. But the discussion always stops there. It doesn't apply to what I really think is important, i.e. To see the basic priority order that we can use as a decision - making tool regardless of cost, as we have seen about the Dizziness Course. It is one of the enormously high - cost projects, such as a tunnel to Sufjörður, which has constantly been pushed down on a list without a objective basis for the availability, security, and a variety of such factors. If we watched the exact same projects, the Faraway or the Sun Way, without the dollar number, but because of the safety issues and the like, would we say, "Yes, we're going to do this? Or would we say no? In turn, would we change our mind when we see the dollar number behind the project, based on the assumption that we are actually financing it anyway? After all, we need to get involved anyway. Why, then, do we constantly delay it more and more? Why don't we use the swing balance role of the State Fund to cover it for a certain amount of time? If the project is profitable, then, in all cases, it is never negative to borrow from it unless, of course, the interest rates and other zeros out the profits. But if they just zero it out, once the loan's paid off, it's a profit. In the end, you're getting a lot of money. There are a lot of things that matter, since private people usually have worse ways of financing than public. Clearly, when it comes to such personal projects, it is not the financing that leads to a more practical approach to private projects than the public; it must be on some other basis. You will also have to ask yourself, " Why can the private person rather than the public implement them on more practical grounds beyond the difference in financing methods? ' Why can the public not do the same? It is interesting to ask about it and to find answers to that question. At least I'd like to hear someone explain it. I have asked in the discussions about these six projects, not necessarily one individual but, in general, where are the projects in the general priorities that we finance by means of general means of fund or fuel costs and, in fact, by taxes as well? Why are they not in place in that schedule? An example of a project mentioned in connection with many other projects is forestry. That is interesting and something that we would like to avoid having no perplexing reason to engage in them above others. It would've been time for Vella-Vainways to come to the end. Of course, how much time that would have taken would have been based on the way we used money in transport. But the problem with discussing issues such as this is that we do not get enough perspective on the discussion and the overall context in both the funding and the priorities of transport. And because we need it, it's the context with a bill that's completely lost. We cannot put it in proper perspective with a transport plan, and we cannot explain why these projects are highly suitable for road projects beyond using the system we have generally seen to be using to finance transport in our country. My main criticism of this bill, and actually the next bill too, is that when making decisions on progress or actions in Iceland in one way or another, it is in the end simply a guess that this is a good priorities or a good project. It is not explained why and when compared with the benefits of closer to the project and the benefits of the community in general on the project, etc. By comparison, it would otherwise be possible to determine whether the advantage of the closer community of construction would be considerably greater than the benefits for the whole country. If so, it may not be unwise to set a course for a limited group, which would be much greater than for others. But that, of course, is not to be found in this bill, for as is always to be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u97	We here receive one more issue from the government, which is a good promise but has not worked, as do many of the cases that have been obtained from the government, but the Council has been able to adapt somewhat to Congress. It would be possible to have many words on the subject as such, why it is evident in this form, etc. But I'm going to keep that discussion. However, if we go over what this case isn't, it's not a case of Covid, and there's not going to be a few thousand jobs because of this in the immediate future. At least three of the six projects listed here are in the developing stage of thought and will not be realized until after a possible decade or a half - decade or so. So, as I'm saying, it's a good thought or something that didn't work well. I also ask myself in my priorities here, especially because of a double whale soil march. I'm surprised that this idea has come in here because there's nothing to call it. There's been one accident in the tunnel so serious, anyway. That accident, however, could have occurred anywhere and in itself has nothing to do with the tunnel being one lane in each direction. There may be one particular reason why I've come up here, because we've already talked about it, middle-class people, that the method here is the least of which we think we're going through. Of course, it would be best for the income that the government has made to do more than it is now, in second place, to borrow very long for such projects. But then people fall on top of this transformation in their attitude toward roads. That is not to say, there is only one transformation yet since 2017, i.e. Just before the election. However, there is another issue that caused me to come up here, and that is the discussion that took place in the Senate room earlier today on the Dizziness Way. I must admit that it made me understand clearly how far in priority the Sun path seems to be with the members of the capital, and I must say, for example. to discuss why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was completely incomprehensible to me. To be honest, I don't have logical support, such as that city line has greater transport capacity than the Sunway because, like the ideas I've so far taken care of, it's a long way between these projects and it's not connected and I honestly don't understand what they were talking about. It was also said in his talk that it would be more expensive in the future and that it would be difficult to travel about in Reykjavík if there were to be a reality. I don't understand either, and I have to say that I'm sure those who are sitting in a car for 40 minutes now twice a day, to get out of the country in the morning and go back in the evening, don't understand either. In fact, there is one solution to this flow problem, which is driving in Reykjavík to East and West, a very simple operation that I have painted in this platform and in other ways only a few times. The first time I opened up on this subject, I was seen by the look of pity, which is all right. But my idea is simply this, so I'm going to report it once again, that it could be made possible to make the Ring Road/Mightway a single-way street from Nland Avenue west to the Engraded River in the East, saying one-way street to the east. This would be inexpensive, this can be done in just a few weeks. There are several traffic signs that need to be turned around and taken down some traffic lights, but otherwise it is a simple procedure. Similarly, the Seaway could be removed from the same starting point in the East, i.e. from the gaudy years and down on the Snorra Way to make it a single policy west. This would be the largest of eight lanes under each direction and at least four lanes. This would mean that public transportation could have its own lanes all the way. But as I'm saying, this idea has been very, very rarely taken. Another thing that's good to her is that you can experiment with her, do this for six months e.g. If this is completely delirium, it won't cost much of it to kill a person's finances. But so I return to the Sunway and the councilman's position on it was not one - that I heard, that I may not have heard all talks -- that mentioned the role of the Sunway as a security factor in the capital area, i.e. if we need to empty the western capital area with short notice and within a short period of time, for example. There's fires, earthquakes, anything like that. No one I heard at least mentioned this safety point, this security role that the Sun path would certainly have on such a year's journey. There's another one that's totally clear if it came true, i.e. with what you've seen on pictures - it's actually ruined and severely impaired the possibility of land connection with the Klepplade or the Saturday or the inside of the planned building projects in this area - we need to be careful not to interfere with the dangers of Sunwater. It's, for example. certain that if a low bridge were chosen, and if it were too soon on the Kpassway, it would impair the use of the Sunfarves. That's something we can't afford. Of all of this, the uncertainty of this project is that it will take some time just to decide the uterus and decide if you want to enter a tunnel under the channel or if you want to go to a high bridge or a low bridge. This is far from the point where you can begin to decide with some reasonable information in front of you. So this case is absolutely worthwhile, but it has a major endpoint in the future that it is not one of the issues that we can connect with Covid, clearly not. To say this, I would like to repeat that, of course, our Middle-class minds would be in order to be financed in a way that I described earlier because this treatment here is natural only a tax recovery, a new tax system placed in a caramel letter and called a cooperative project. Remuneration is usually just a new taxation for people who drive on standard vehicles when they are highly taxated. Electric cars are not growing rapidly that this is the case on their own unless it became so that electric cars would increase significantly, faster than we can see now, they create a basis for reducing the costs of other conventional vehicles, and I'm primarily talking about fuel costs. It's like when something's passed on in Iceland - like the temporary tax that was laid on 25 years ago, if I remember correctly, I think it's at least 20 years since it was laid on, a temporary tax collected twice a year and based on heavy driving equipment -- then we're often talking about something that's set in a hurry, something that's supposed to be temporary, and stays on, something that's not supposed to end. I think this bill has some expression on it. Of course, I hope this case develops in the case of a committee, but it doesn't change the performance rate of this project or anything like that, certainly not. That's what I wanted to say because when we're setting priorities, it's understandable that you've got the problem of moving on. It's just some 20-year process. I recall that it is 1996 that Kjaluns agreed together with Reykjavík because they were promised that they would come in five years ago. This has not been the case, but of course you can understand where there are urgent tasks elsewhere. Mr. President, it is, in effect, not unusual to, in order to increase traffic security, to decrease for two decades. I could name the Tiger Forest, I could name a tunnel in the East, too, because the local people may not fully agree on how they should lie, unfortunately. We could provide more examples of this. It's like I'm not saying indiscriminately that this process takes so long. Endless lawsuits. A simple man thought that the time had come when construction could be started through the forest of Chef. Then there are two more counts, and you say, " When is it enough? ' Isn't it about a long time ago that it's time to put a bill on the road through Chef Forest once and for all? All I've already made up of this is that these are good promises here, but they won't be fulfilled at a possible time. They will not have the effect on the commercial market that is being proclaimed, but in other respects the promises are wonderful. The priority order is wrong, but I'm sure it will improve substantially, Mr. President, in connection with the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u98	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent discussion today on the main work on road projects. I'm going to go over a few points that the senators left on the subject, on one side or another, questions, questions, doubts about how things were going to be. I also want to correct some of the things that have occurred. Some members of the Parliament have spoken that money has not paid them to build roads, the financial resources even known as market income. Of course, that is not true, but it has all worked out for the road construction process throughout the time, even between 2010 and 2011, although it was not much to remember. I've been saying that we've been underneath, but I've seen the latest numbers, and it got away. However, it is true that in turn on the cost of fuel, merchandise is dropped, and some talk about merit tax. But if you want to join them and discuss these psalms, you also need to discuss whether traffic should pay all the cost involved. Of course, it would be necessary to bring with it the 1,50960 billion community - related costs of accidents, serious accidents, and death accidents each year, even part of the tax and police costs and other factors. Then I'm not sure that the sum would support it. To be honest, these funds have certainly gone to work. At the same time, some members of the council have claimed that there was little use of funding here. Of course, that is not true. For example, considering the past few years, we have largely increased budgets for the construction, maintenance, and service of the Road Building and, for example, the importance of handling things properly. Hv. A senator and director of the Environment and Transport Committee, Bergþór Ólason, wanted to have a life span longer than 20 years. Of course, in the bill, he is 30 years old. He also mentioned, and several of his colleagues in the Middle Ages, that this wasn't a Covid case, went into that illustration. The matter came on, and an effort was made to do so sooner. Several members of the Parliament, including some of them. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee, was happy to get the case and would have wanted it in sooner. It was tried, and more than 20 members of the congregation were in the hall, and a meeting was held in blue, as one remembers. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé went over the fact that there had never been more than 12 people here today. Clearly, that was not the reason why the matter was canceled the other day. But I will argue that this is a reaction to the situation and investment campaign. Several members of the Central Party have made quite an effort to say so, including fierceness. Þórarinsson Þorsteinn Sæmundsson Hjaltason and now the last of Sórförmundsson, that these six projects are by no means ready and therefore unable to be considered a government response to these objects now, but I want to remind them that design and preparation, even work like environmental assessment, is also working where people and all these projects are required in some phase. Because of this, two could start this year, and next year I might not be able to get on the third. Then we are talking about a project of one quarter of a billion, with related projects and tasks. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason and others wondered if the bill should be more open than it is, there can be no particular projects in the bill, and then what. paritaprevir Leví Gunnarsson bear came into question the origin of this priorities. To answer, all these projects were adopted in a transport program, a current transport program. Moreover, they were organized as assignments that could go on exactly this course. It is part of that priorities. It's been through the Council. But the reason they are mentioned in the bill is that they are being assured of the coming of the council. Of course, you might have the bill even more open and a minister with counseling from the Roadmaker could arrange tasks that fit into the box. But I would have felt that this would be a more powerful seminary, even though it might seem more difficult in the field to make adjustments in these laws every time the work is added. But I think that might be an option. Hv. paritaprevir Brjánsson's father came into several things, compared with Norway. Of course, this is different. Some members of the Parliament fell into the trap of dealing with this as an additional tax system and forgot that the benefits are in the project, the user can do a different way, but it is simply cheaper to go that way. Let us not forget that the collection of user fees will only start when the project is completed and that humans have a choice, can go through it. She'll only be more expensive than paying for her new route. Hv. This was the case with the Bryndís of Gambles, whose Haraldsdóttir was the daughter of Gambles. I agree that it's very important, and that's one thought in this bill, the innovation that may involve more design and implementation and how to do things. The road type has, for example. Consider using one project as both a learning and a teaching project in it, i.e. a new bridge over Eeljah, which could be started at this year's end but use the time to make conversation about the reasonable, less expensive, environmental, more practical, and something else. I'm suggesting that there's an idea. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir on the Sunway, called ostenfield, or sometimes called alexfield, rests within this bill's account, in fact, the Sun path can be taken on such a project on the basis of the bill. That's a long way to count. I'm going to end my summary of the fact that these six projects are selected to work on an approved transport program. They've been referred to as a project that makes sense to be involved in such a process. Then comes a bill that says it, and then the Senate and the Senate work is on it. I want to reiterate that this approach can result in innovation, new knowledge, by competing for ideas. The time line may be shorter, and by going this way, we definitely get these tasks faster. The benefits of society become considerable, especially traffic safety. Finally, it is the benefit of the user that counts. Although he pays to go by the short route, the new route, the safe way across the bridge, over the scale, or under the mountain, his benefit will be greater than if he goes the old way, although he does not pay for it except by the traditional traffic of the car.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u99	A respectable president. I did not intend to interfere especially with the explanations given when the program was addressed. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé spoke, but since a minister took it up, it may be a good thing to react to it only. We were in a condition where we were to maintain communication, and in reality we found that we were firm and minimal and long discussion of matters, as if it were simply inappropriate at the time. The matter was always about that conversation and the lack of that conversation with the president, where he simply arranged the matter, no matter what else, not the climax of the 20 persons or anything that might well have been involved, but in the exact discussion where the criticism under President's board was being made, not on this matter. What I criticized during the discussion was a basic order before the council receives a transport plan. What priorities are based on the Ministry of Transport? We'll never get it. That's what I've been asking the national and rural groups about, their priorities. What priorities do they suggest in their transport plan? They know the roads that the Vegas do not know who, the species in each community, they know the people in the part of the country, in their communities. The road evidently does not know this in response to the highest response. Minister I got a while ago. There's a lot of things wrong with this, and it can't be said that it agreed on these transport projects is evidence for this bill to put their projects into it, since they need the foundation managers, the basic reason why they came there on a different level.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u100	A respectable president. I'm not gonna get involved in what happened. I pointed to the obvious, that this discussion could take place today, and there never was any trouble, so she could have gone on the other day too. But the main thing, perhaps I didn't come in enough and what. A senator did not answer in a talk, but his priorities were. I don't know if the Senator has forgotten or jumped over the fact that we have something called a transportation guide. It prepares transportation and work at the Ministry. There we sit the road manager, the president of Istavia, and director of the Grouping Room. It has meetings with all national parts, with most rural communities. They are constantly meeting all over the country with all other interests to sorcere. The road with its experts brings in priorities based on local perspectives, on the importance and objectives of the transport programme in linking a core with a minimum of 100 inhabitants and placing rabik on such roads, etc. There are some main goals being worked on. All of this takes place before a proposal for transport to a minister who then reviews it at the Ministry and heads for the council. They've been going through all this process, and especially having conversations that I stress, with my rural society, with the national community, with all the other economists in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u101	A respectable president. The other day, meeting boundaries were different from those of today. It's that simple. Despite all of this, the rural communities are meeting with the environment and transport committee and saying that they had a different priorities but then appeared in a transport programme. When we ask why, the Ministry asks for an explanation, we don't get any answers, despite all this advice. That's what I'm complaining about, that we don't get that evidence. The country does not get that information for making a contribution. This is the process of consultation. This is the priority of the consultation process. Perhaps it is changed by the Ministry or for political reasons, which are any reason, or that it explains why the priorities of a part of the country or rural community do not necessarily go through after this consultation. That's a missing explanation. That's what I'm calling out for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u102	A respectable president. Of course, it is obvious that when a person goes home in the province and puts out his wish list, he does not make it all up. So, if they say they don't know why they couldn't get in there, it's because of the model I just described, since all the main objectives of the transport program that is in force at any given time are the basis for the work of the transport council as well as the letter to the transport board to which it works. It is the work, and then there are the experts in the Vega program who have assessed interest on grounds of interest, on the basis of environmental considerations, and all other aspects of it. Finally, there will be some list that is proposed to the Ministry of Transport, which then enters the council. It's a very albino job. Once the council has discussed the proposal and is suggested for specific projects, including these, to be well prepared to go through such a cooperative process, they are discussed and approved at the council. Then we'll take it from the Ministry and make a bill about it. It's a very albino process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u103	Unless you need that in your hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u104	A respectable president. Now I'm going to copy the highest. Ministers and claims that they do not intend to interfere with me, but they do, and they talk about the criteria for meeting that were in effect here when this case was to be discussed. I have to admit, I feel like such indignities, both of them from the highest point of view. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér, rather tasteless, that the matter could have been discussed there the other day and to bed. paritaprevir In fact, Sir Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé's been so busy to count people in this hall have been working on it today in order to be right. I don't know if he's taking it into account, which has been added after this, or whether he is conscious that when we are expected to stay away, a controversial matter does not belong in a Senate hall. Still, like I think it's the highest. A minister observed when he gave his deliverer speech here, that he might answer the minister's question. They're a limited resource. There were four answers, if I remember correctly, at the highest. Minister earlier in this discussion, she's been over for quite some time. I managed to count 12 members of the council who participated in this discussion, which I just think is pretty good, and a lot of answers, too. All of this would just have been considerably less unpleasant, considerably less unacceptable, if there were still any chairs in the hall and here it was still the same confusion as how the council should be conducted in relation to this deadline. I just want to ask the highest. A minister would not want to reevaluate the matter just because we have disagreed with transportation restrictions. Is it not true to celebrate that there is now a normal conference and that things can be discussed with full weight and that they are not standing in any head count here?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u105	A respectable president. I am very happy that the council has started and is only proud of what has been accomplished in the country in the battle against health problems. That is why it is good for Congress to have its routine. I just pointed out the obvious, that it could have been the other day too, but I'm not going to inherit it with anyone. I liked the discussion today, and I couldn't hear much resistance to the situation, even though there were all kinds of speculations. I'm just confident that the committee will be able to deal with this in a reliable way, and more drifters are being dealt with because it matters. I was arguing, based on the government's response to an investment campaign, that it was important for this cooperation project to be one of the tools we could use there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u106	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the official transport infrastructure community in the capital area. Last autumn, the Icelandic State and six rural societies in the capital area made an agreement on the planning and funding of transport roads in the capital area until the next 15 years. This covenant shows that the nations and their communities will establish a common society that is holding on to the landmark structure of the interior and surrounding structures. The establishment of the Society, which has been closely cooperated with local societies, is also linked with the government's economic actions to promote more investments. In the present economic situation, it is important to maintain the official investment level and contribute to the speed of progress. Therefore, it is necessary to establish a public partner as soon as possible to control the extensive structure planned here in the capital area. The Society's work must keep an investment in transport for the next 15 years, which has already been financed. The organization is expected to cooperate with the road generation, and individual rural areas are under construction due to city lines in groundwater road, wheel and footpaths. At this time, implementation is also expected due to better traffic control and other safety measures to ensure increased traffic flow. Thus, it falls within the job of the society to engage in a profit - making infrastructure that will stimulate the economy and the commercial creations that are critical at this time. Once the company has been established, there will also be further opportunities to speed up projects, if this is considered practical based on the rest of the work and the economic situation in other respects. The bill explains more about the purpose and objective of the Society as well as the goals set out in the transport covenant. It shows what the role and project of the organisation is that of the external and structure of transport infrastructure expected to achieve at least Until 2033. The bill also contains the terms of the stocks, administrations, loans, and violations of the Society, as well as the terms of the financial rights of the union. It is estimated that the total cost of corporate projects will be committed at around 120 billion dollars. It has been reported that the government fund guarantees the project 45 billion dollars. with direct donations, 15 billion by land development and sale and 30 billion by transport. The direct contribution of rural society to totals a total of 15 billion across the period and is distributed to rural areas according to the proportion of the population. Thus, in terms of the difference, the remaining half of their need, it is held open in this agreement in the way it should be financed but the mentioned alternative measures in this subject, especially speed and traffic costs, while other funding costs are considered in parallel with energy exchange. However, there is now a general review of the taxes we have long relied on to build up transport workers in our country, including fuel and vehicles. This may be an opportunity to change transport funding while changing and linking energy exchange. There may be more. That's how we were, for example. earlier this year, before the Covid-19 epidemic broke out in this country with a very negative economic impact, using the drawing table to plan to sell state properties, especially Iceland banking. In the years to come, if they had followed up, they would have been able to spend some of the bank's sales value in order to finance the work under those circumstances. Obviously, this would have greatly reduced the need for immediate and traffic costs. Of course, other special donations can also be considered during the company's lifetime and early statements on what they might be referring to, i.e. what individual possessions might be involved. It is difficult to overlook the fact that economic circumstances have all deteriorated since this agreement was concluded. But, as I've done here, it is important that we look for all the ways to get started the projects that we believe will increase interest and strengthen our nation's infrastructure and we'll be discussed in this agreement. Obviously, the current epidemic has had a negative impact not only on financial matters but also on local financial matters. It is hardly remembered that the rural communities have recently asked for tens of millions of support from the State at the state level of government, a sum that exceeds the total of what was discussed in this agreed agreement. So much has the situation changed in just a few months. But I believe, a respectable president, it is important that we take this bill for discussion and follow the plans made in the agreement of the government and the local capital area to improve transport in the area, with all the positive effects for production, environment, and quality of life in its capital area. In the meantime, however, the evidence for an investment in the infrastructure may be one of the most important contributions we make to break the chain of negative effects resulting from the spread of the crown virus, this epidemic. Right now, that's fine. It is not easy to predict exactly how the next month will be going on, but here we are in the long - term situation, which is important for a discussion at the council and for us to continue our discussion on that subject. I have finished my speech, a respectable president, and suggest that the case be referred to. The legal committee following the discussion and then through the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u107	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Foreman of finance. It's under a big, big case that can be connected far into the future. It was discussed here several months ago at the council, the agreement on the capital area, and as I understood to the government representatives, the necessary action of all action is accepted at one time. Question to the highest. A minister is: Don't you think he still sees it as an approved budget for this agreement or business to be linked? According to that, I'd like to mention here two paragraphs from the agreement itself. First of all, it says here, by permission of the President: ▪ The government's transcription points out that the public will agree to the legal adjustments agreed on by the Council. The preceding procedure says: At the same time, financial and economic ministers will expect the financial obligations of this agreement in financial programmes and markets for each year. Looks the best. So, then, that he has already made a commitment to submit these suggestions to each year's budget? The other question I'd like to come to, with President's permission, concerns what the bill says: The basis for building up cannot be funded under the implementation and funding programme provided in the Annex to the Convention expected that the parties will initiate discussions as soon as possible on how we should fail to ensure that their implementation will be carried out in accordance with the implementation of the implementation programme. The results of the negotiations seem to be surmounted in a way that should follow the procedure. The strategy is added to the II in this case, so I'm afraid that each of the Generals is very limited, as the bill is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u108	A respectable president. I don't think the state can shoot off its Constitutional obligations to ensure that the funds for all financial contributions are made by making a contract like the one we're discussing here, without preconceiving the arrival of the General Assembly, it includes the establishment of the funds there. It is very clear to me that if there is no legal agreement for the budgets for each year that the contract takes on them, there is a certain prerogative. This is reflected in the very provision. A senator refers to a question about the need for a minister to make a suggestion on this in financial planning and in financial terms, i.e. This recognizes that the secretary of finance who signs this agreement cannot promise more than that he proposes to the council. Then there's gonna be something more than majority of the people here at the council. It has to be said, as it is, that there is something unusual that has been agreed on by men to propose a contract they've made. At the same time, it is a small amount of money for the secretary of finance to accept his intention of at least making a suggestion to the council, making it seem as though it were the least of them. However, when these two articles are read together, I find it clear that there is eventually a fund right here, and it depends on the decisions made by the Generals each time. As to the implementation of the programme, this is to be the basis for harmony with the policy-making programme and the work being done on the basis of the agreed agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u109	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. I consider the government's contract standing up until the next 15 years to be a very narrow entourage there in the last paragraph of Article 3. The report, but let's leave it in the middle of the story. Third thing I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of finance on this occasion is 7. The bill that deals with Feldnaland and the takeover of this community in Köldnaland, as follows, by permission of the President: The EU shall take care of the development of the country in cooperation with its planning authorities, with the aim of maximising the value of the country and its potential for building up where possible. I have to explain to myself that I think it's a little special that they're starting some kind of government real estate development society. Of course, we have Kadeco and possibly someone else, even though I don't light them quickly. I would have long believed that it would be the conclusion of the year 2020 that the State established a new real estate development organization on the development of a valuable land. However, the question to a minister is, has it really come to the matter of releasing the value of these property in a way that is different from putting it into a real estate development society as it is prescribed?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u110	A respectable president. If we look at the parties' contribution to this agreement, we will be involved on the part of the State on the land of Fireland and on the other hand, by special contributions which will be guaranteed by the budget, according to the thinking behind the contract, except for this additional payment that I merely attributed to my history. For the sake of the community, there is not in itself much contribution. This is evident primarily in 1 billion per year for 15 years because of all transport in the capital area, and 1 billion per year is even less than that of the rural population in recent years. So it is not much new commitment on their part, and it is almost a physical monobution of the government. But there are exceptions, and one of them is the theory of evolution. I have to say, it's extremely important to the State that there's an agreement to try to maximise the value of the treaty. You can read from this specific article, since the communities have access to the company, that with good cooperation with the capital, there are expectations that valuables will be released in this particular country which will be useful in the interests of these agreements. But for the particular development community, I believe this is an unattractive way to further the State's economic accounts for good. These are often property in the state's financial balance without any direct use. But with this methodology, we can develop, such as this, developing societies that can be developed that do not seem to pay the price in the context of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u111	A respectable president. One simple question about E team 3. g., at this time, by permission of the President: To collect quick and traffic charges in the capital area, it will be decided by law to lay such charges on, I am just stopping by this very condition. It will be decided by the law to show you the way it should be. Is the plan, then, to submit another bill in this terms period or because the warrant is not given in this law, is it just not being released?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u112	A respectable president. This bill is about the institution of the community or authority to its organisation. It is the basis for which such a union can be established and what role it plays and traced are speed or traffic expenditures as one potential source of income for the Society and I believe it will be sufficient at this point because it is, of course, a huge export factor in the way the Council might decide to permit such remuneration. We know that this is one of the factors that have been controversial in this particular matter. But by the contracts and the bill, it can be seen that such giant projects can be financed in various ways. I've said something like that. In the context of the fact that, in the whole of the country, "the charges of traffic " may not necessarily have to be made, in particular, that we are reevaluating the rules of fuel and automobiles. But it can be read, not as it is before the council, but as it were, of the urgency of the situation. paritaprevir A reference is that it will then have to be made on a special bill taken by the General for independent treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u113	A respectable president. I just ask again, will that bill be submitted to this terms?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u114	A respectable president. I can't say anything about it. What an advantage it would be to be able to settle this point during this time of election! I see this happening so that after society has been set up, a highly organized government will begin to begin to view such financing methods. Of course, at the same time, I have to finish my work that I've been referring to here on the change of energy, on a future set of fuel and vehicles. I can only allow it to float so quickly that I have imagined that we can allow ourselves to be a bit ambitious at that particular job. I don't think it's entirely impossible that we'd simply take counselling to develop a future ransom system for both fuel and vehicles and in that relationship even international invitations and say, "We've got a lot of ambition in this country to go into energy exchange. Note that no nation has found the future solution to this situation. We have a lot of opportunities here because we can be self-sustaining about the energy supply, the new energy source that will continue to travel in the country. It is not excluded that we could activate some new powers, allow new ideas that by calling for advice from international partners in cooperation with national groups - and then I mean independent members and officials and all - to develop that system. Depending on how this work is done, it will determine when the bill of potential rapids is born and it is time to settle here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u115	President. We'll talk about the rest of the business on the agenda of yesterday's great bullshit day, as I called him, which last night was a little out of line, which may well be said, because here's the best host. Secretary of finance, an old ghost now dressed in crown clothes, such as so many cases, issues based on a dramatic agreement, the transport contract, the so-called or contract. It's not quite clear what to call this. It was a delicate matter after the plagiarism was signed, whether it could be called a contract or a covenant. I think it's very desirable and really important that the mayor doesn't get any more meetings with the highest. Secretary of transportation. It's probably something awful coming out of it, like this transport problem, not to mention an agreement or a contract on a Reykjavík airport. This case is about to start an official community because it has now proved so good. Of course, there may be grounds for the state to establish a society. Then the purpose and how it is formed is of vital importance. This company, of course, is intended for infrastructure, but it is specifically stated that there should be a strain on new payments--may now be, Mr. President - so called speed and traffic costs. In fact, the charges were previously called remuneration, but they have likely been called too well described for these new fees, which are added to a long list of other fees established by the government. Thank you very much. President for intervening here at the highest level. Councilmen such as that you now have a better sound to continue your discussion on this very important subject. The case we are discussing here is in line with what was discussed in the last part of the program, where new charges on the roads of the country are expected. There's a list of new fees to travel within the capital area, remunerations now known as quick fees. However, it is probably best to explain this bill and its purpose by pointing to the obvious, that it is about fulfilling the campaign of Dagur Eggertsson Emegerson and the Union in Reykjavík before the last mayor's election. The mayor gets to conduct his strangest policies from the campaign, the city line, and the probable grandway in stocks, and something like that. What will the State replace? Before that happens, the government has to pay the bill. The government's going to pay the bill for the Union election, the city line, but the rest of it will be paid by the public, as I mentioned before, in the form of the recent meetings, whether they want to be paid due, or if they want to be called breakfast. They actually need one point where the state's going, in order to meet the mayor's campaign, to attack a real estate complex, to start a new real estate society to develop and sell to the Bankland. However, this country has been referred to as a very promising option for the future construction of the Land Hospital, and yet there would be plenty of room left for other settlements. Another area, the Garden town of Garden City, which had been considered in this context and was, in fact, defined as the future construction of the Land Hospital, was quickly sold, in fact, in the past. Secretary of finance, so that people could stop considering such possibilities there. Now it's to be put into the state's real estate development organization so that its produce can become part of the package to meet the Commission's campaign supply in Reykjavík. In fact, one more thing is mentioned, possible sales of Iceland banks, and it's good to see that the government is as good on the score as ever. All this bill, the government makes it look like some kind of subcommittee in the mayor's office in Reykjavík. And what does the Kingdom get for everything? There's a permit. It will be allowed to attack a number of projects in the capital area that should have been completed long ago, which were planned most of them a long time ago. But now the city and its associates will allow the State to carry out this if it pays off the construction and the city line. I must admit, Mr. President, it was well done at the highest level. Minister earlier to admit that on the part of the local communities in itself there was not much point to this matter. However, the Kingdom will pay and, as a result, be allowed to take action that has been awaited. But is it really true that in 15 years, more major transport projects are not to be completed, necessary transportation projects, of course, I do not consider a city line or a deck course that is planned in this transport agreement or transport contract? Is it so that when it's the highest? The secretary of finance will be 65 years old only if there is no more progress, no more major projects completed in the capital area than has been completed here? But the city line, it's going to attack, and the state's going to pay. How do things like that happen, Mr. President? I don't think the mayor would have reached such great contracts, although in the Presidency Department, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Transport, the main objective of this document we are now dealing with is to attack a city line at the cost of the state and the taxing of the capital area. Now, perhaps it's time to wonder if it's the highest. Minister knows what the city line is because we've been through this before, and then it's the highest. A minister answered that it was somehow inexpensive what was meant by a city line, but now that this bill is submitted, the highest level is known. Minister probably what a city line is, and maybe he can explain it to us. Yet, for a long time it has been that, no matter what this phenomenon is, it would be an enormous beast, and people have pointed to similar examples from other countries to the fact that such a project is typical of public work that is far beyond the expense. Men have, for example. Named Edinburgh, where the city line was considerably smaller or shorter than here planned. It went far beyond the expense plan, turned, if I recall correctly, primarily to link the airport to the city. No plans stood, and does anyone believe that plans for a city line as expensive as they are will ultimately be met? It'd be interesting if it was the highest. The secretary of finance may assure us that these budgets are going to work. This is also designed to squeeze traffic, we know it and have seen it in the data of the city. It is considered a special advantage for this project to take two lanes, one in each direction, of the city's major transportation roads and its capital area under the city line. It's tighting to traffic, but then it's explained to us that it's just better. This will give people greater motivation to take a bus or a city line. We also know that this is supposed to be a double system. The bus will continue to travel through the neighborhood and gather the people to move them to the city line so that they can imagine whether the cost will be reduced. Maybe that's the big thing. This project will include long - term cost of life, not just the huge cost of construction, but the cost of long - term straddling everything, and yet it is logical in a similar way as when the left government composed in its time with the city to set a billion in the road against reducing other projects, as it may sound. Plans were presented on what this would do to increase the use of public transportation. Did it work? Not in any way. Use of the bus despite this billion year's exposure after year did not increase any increase. There was no effect, and now more is being accomplished by attacking the city line, and the government will soon be stuck with it forever. Worse yet, this is also an old - fashioned project. This is not a project that is in harmony with today's needs, as the mayor's point of view has so well explained. If we were in East Berlin in 1960, you might have understood this kind of plot from the government, if you took care of it being at least Five years wait for the Trablins. But in view of the situation in Iceland today, it is incomprehensible that the government is going to go to this payload by the public to finance this kind of project. Actually, this project reminds me of, speaking of East Berlin, my experience from there. I visited that city before the fall of the wall, and soon I arrived there in a hotel and got soup, which, of course, had to be paid with a western border, in the soup, was made of parsley, lemons, meats, and all kinds of ornaments. The soup was terriblely bad, and soon I realized that the soup had been made up of leftovers of dinners, probably the night before or even a few nights earlier. This bill reminds me of this soup I ate in East Berlin. It's cooked by the highest. A secretary of transportation from the rest of the Union's campaign campaign campaign launch and then served here at the highest level. Secretary of finance. If we look at the section of the bill that deals with the assessment of its effect, we will find a familiar text. This is chapter 6, for evaluation of the effect. I feel that I know a few lines I think are practically correct taken from the United States radio advertisements before the last mayor's election, and all of this is supposed to happen with the establishment of a new public society. The section is designed to increase the structure of the country and to further address the democratic influence of the elected representative, hence voters, and to move it into some undefined distant device. I have a long list of quote on the bill and the paper where it's obvious, but I think I'm running out of time so I'm gonna have to ask the highest level. President to put me back on the rosary. This case illustrates the consequences of being stuck with a system management program that is also under control, as it is clearly shown on page 5. 6 on the bill, by permission of the President: ▪ One of the purposes of the covenant is to promote the change in traveling habits. There we go. The independent party introduces a bill about how to promote behavior, change people's ways. But the question remains: Can the highest. Secretary of finance informed us of what a city line is? I will return here in a speech afterwards to review the nature of this public community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u116	A respectable president. I have to say, I felt that a greater part of this talk was being discussed in a matter other than the matter of Congress itself, which is about authority to establish a society. The question was being asked: What is a city line? Then, in effect, the answer was no more than that it was a hopeless idea. But I'm just going to review some of the main goals that the government had with this agreement. It took action to provide transportation, didn't it? We've been in too much traffic all over the city, and the whole capital area, continuous traffic knots, in fact, from a mall highway, and a vast highway just south of Hafnarfjörður, some mornings. We want to be successful in carbon neutralisation, become a non-carbon community in the future, and this covenant is intended to capture its resources. We want to increase traffic security. All those transport projects as easily as possible. A senator noted that the drawing table was long on - that is exactly the problem. They've only been on the drawing table. They're finally here on paper and financed. It's a fantastic traffic security issue. We're reaching them with this, except for ensuring a reliable frame of action with the project, with this partner. Of course, the city line is largely a traffic jam in the capital area. To create space for a new highway river, it must be made up. So, people have been working on what kind of vehicles will travel along them, and I can totally agree with that. A senator said that some ideas have been very dreamy, and to me, all too costly and unrealistic. Others who have discussed that the bus can go around or even a self - destructive vehicle in the future have in my mind been much more practical and less absurd. A senator is most referring to and teaching at the United States. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u117	The president forgot to mention it earlier. Councilmen respond when a speech period is shortened for one minute later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u118	Mr. President. I know it's the highest. Minister wants it well. Our goals are one, but this is not the way to reach the ultimate goals. A minister described. Yes, we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and I've discussed this in the past. This is certainly not the way, as it were, of a billion each year's plans to support the road and shut down the other projects we both want to see reduce greenhouse gas emissions. When a city line is attacked, it's just off the side of the city what's gonna happen. In fact, it must now be acknowledged that often the mayor has another opinion of the agreement that has been signed but ministers, but unfortunately, the mayor's interpretation is usually correct, he has the system with him. Sadly, this city line, as the city can explain, is designed to squeeze traffic. In many places it is not possible to add two lanes to major stem roads. Then a lane will be taken either way under a city line that is probably not a train, if I understand the highest. Secretary of finance, possibly just a bus, new bus lane. If you're gonna spend 70, 100, 120 billion on a new bus lane, I'm pretty impressed. It narrows the traffic system and does not work for the traffic as it is in Reykjavík and the national capital area in Iceland. Regarding these important projects that I take into account with a financial minister that should have long ago been under attack: Why doesn't the State just take the decision to implement them instead of going to the mayor and ask permission to attack long-term timely improvements, including Security reform, the urban transportation system, and then pay tens of billions of dollars of their own money from land and the future taxation of capital cities?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u119	A respectable president. I'd like to mention some of the reasons why this was so early that people were using consumers and forcing them to take advantage of a means of transportation that they might not be interested in. I think it's just the other way around. We are increasing the options for people in the capital area by implementing and ensuring that options exist. It's not exactly consumer management. It's perhaps much more about increasing people's freedom. I'm also going to say here that it's important to have good public transportation, and they haven't been in the capital area, they've been sad, bad. One way to improve the situation is to bring up new lanes that can guarantee more public transportation. But they can be more of the new lanes, they can be priorities, e.g. for those traveling three or four in a car together. We can give them a special priority in traffic, thus making sure that we will be less trapped in future traffic knots. I'm going to let myself say that, if that's all. A senator agrees with the goals in this, but he even wants the State to do more. They'll raise questions about financing. A senator has, in effect, passed the matter altogether.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u120	Mr. President. The funding comes from almost all the state and the taxes of the capital area. V.E.G. It may be noted that he allowed himself to admit this earlier when he said that from among the rural communities, there was not much in itself to be done on this matter. So the money comes from the state. Why does the government not take control, deciding how to manage these matters instead of letting most of the money get sucked into some unprecedented nonsense like this city line, which is clearly unclear what is? Is this a priority lane, or is this a train? Nobody knows but the city. She has planned this and has set the job on the tracks as it will continue once the system has started. However, the government has made a commitment to cover the cost of taxes, by sales of the land, and by means of new fees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u121	President. I don't feel like chasing straps with high moods and what's supposed to be striking metaphors at the moment. Senator. You just have to pick out the politicians they like to do. But I've listened to what often. paritaprevir speak of himself and the group he leads as the group that has the solution to countless things. That's why I'd like to try, if only to try, President, to get some. A senator now to do something other than paint pictures of the dragd eastern soup - which he in some way seems to be a matter of support and support - trying to deliver the solution, standing at his big words. In 2014, Spain told us that in the next 25 years, there would be an increase in the number of people in the capital area of about 70,000. They don't make it, they've got more. During the past five years, the number of the next five has increased by 23,000. If all of this group's travel habits are not changed, they'll fall into the same pattern we have here now, and even though we're building all the roads that I know they're doing. A senator dreams of, indiscriminate street conventions here, and the misdirection of the crossroads there, we say models and models are not true, Mr President - the delay will increase by 25% during this time, despite all the billions of dollars in the road. How's it going, man? paritaprevir To solve that problem? Because out there it's a responsible political bitch, not standing here, painting things, not some of the ridiculous colours people think maybe in someone's heart and reaching out to someone out there, but responsibility. This is the problem, Mr. President. How's it going, man? paritaprevir To solve it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u122	Mr. President. It will never be said too often that it is invaluable for us here at the council to have men with us who are on such a much higher schedule than most others and who can explain things from a far higher perspective. But because of him. That is exactly what one senator described, who previously criticized my pessimism for this plan, about the future of road development in the capital area by increasing the population, can be pointed out. paritaprevir There are far more cities than Reykjavík and the capital area and cities where traffic is much better and there are not all older medieval, densely populated cities where you can rely on street or city lines or underground trains, where many have done a great deal of planning for traffic, and much better than here in Reykjavík. Much of the problem we face today and the traffic charms that most people experience in the capital area every day are not being handled at the necks of the bottle. There's not been an attack on the projects that I and the highest. The secretary of finance agrees that if it is long since time, bottle - necks are formed that actually stop traffic more and less throughout the city. As long as this is the situation, it won't get better. But the big concern about this is that this is not just a problem that is not an unsolved problem. It is the policy of the city's authorities to maintain these traffic jams in the city and to refer to declarations there to force people on a different means of transportation to help with consumer management.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u123	President. Not surprisingly, there was no answer to my direct question here. It's not surprising. A senator who speaks of being on a higher level than others to support data does not answer how to solve this huge problem. I studied it in my talk earlier, no matter what the solution may be. A senator shows that, although he does not speak properly of it, he does. He doesn't mention the only word, blows it off the table, these are numbers and facts that aren't right for me in my language. Make them suspicious and do not take them with us. Hv. A senator said that the institution of this company, so we're going to talk about it, reminded me of Berlin in 1960. I know why. A senator likes a lot of things from Norway. I listened to him testifying several times in the Norwegians last year. All urban communities in Norway have set up this exact set of projects related to public transport, many of which are on the pair at the city line. Counts 'em out. A senator that these rural communities and Norway's government also acted like Berlin in 1960, or it's just an inexpensive political bitch like that. A senator is the most famous? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u124	Mr. President. I don't want to thank you for that answer because it wasn't good. Hv. A senator simply looked past my answers earlier because he does not want to hear them because he follows a dogma, doctrines that do not rise up. I can, for example. pointed to the fact that a platoon sister was there. The senator explained that it was very important to narrow down access to the Harpa, when it was being built, in order to create traffic congestion. This is your goal. Target scurry. The senator and his companion, unfortunately, are far too often making traffic congestions, creating problems instead of solving them, since they are difficult to deal with. A senator and his squad are far too much of the problem business. We're in the solution business. I've mentioned a few things here that could help right away. Light control, simple case, is different from what I'll show you. A senator modeled it because he mentioned it in his previous reply. I've just studied models on how to improve the traffic rate in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u125	A respectable president. Now I have to admit that I felt that I was having a talk. paritaprevir Gunnlaugsson Gunollson's winners are just a little bit fun because I have a humor for sarcasm. But I have to admit, and now I want to be personal, that it always hurts me in the discussion of these matters when the city line is drawn up as some idea of the mayor of Reykjavík, the Conspiracy of Day B. Erictson, because the fact is that it is not. The city line is the result of the regional organizational work of the capital area. And since I shared in that work for many years, the river of transportation based on the city line is derived from that work. As mentioned in the case of what? A senator before, we expect 7,000 people to live here in the capital area, and we're finding ways to get them around. This was the result of the Regional Organizational Committee, which represented from both the greater and the lesser part of all the rural communities in the capital area. I'm also going to be proud that the Independence Party is in more part in all other rural areas than in Reykjavík, so the Independence Party has been represented in all that work from all the rural communities. We support this idea because it is the simplest, most practical, and best idea. It is about individual freedom of choice, that people get real freedom about how they travel from place to place. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because I know that he is very interested in urban planning and has at times been interesting to listen to him speak on the subject: Does the media support public transportation? What is the central class's vision of transportation in the capital area? Is it a buggy, or is it some more varied kind of transportation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for taking the stand with this discussion that what is on the table is also the responsibility of the Independence Party as well as that of the United States. I'm afraid I'm afraid it's true, and I've pointed out in the past that I'm deeply concerned that the Independence Party is developing to become the Union, perhaps as the Conspiracy was over a decade ago. Here's another clue. But because of him. A senator asks about transportation and what to do there and whether we support public transportation, so to speak, because I forgot to give a reply. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otttar's son Proppér of Norway, that the Norwegians have tried one thing or another, including A city line in Stafri, that didn't work up. She naturally exceeded expenses and was much less new than when the assignment was being given. The same thing has happened in Reykjavík or in the capital area about Bus. A special project, as I mentioned earlier, was employed to support the bus about $1 billion a year against reducing other projects. Not to be overlooked. It was to follow the history of driving elsewhere by not attacking other projects and strengthening the road to increase the number of people using public transport from 4% to 8%. What was the result in ten years? It started in 4% and ended in 4%. Of course, we support public transportation because they have to be there for those who can benefit from it. I've been taking advantage of public transportation over the years. I used to go to high school and college on bus, and I liked it, except for how many times I missed the bus. But public transportation needs to be there, and it's gonna cost a fortune. It is normal for that cost to be wisely divided, but it is not normal to attack on a new predatory scheme for the State to support the long - term multiplicity cost and to be less equipped to serve people with public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u127	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that the Central Party supports public transportation, because I think they're very important. But the question is, How are we going to run public transportation? I can assure you what. The senator that the way we use today is by sending all these buses into the stew, as we call it, an animal. The public transport needs special space, and then we can perform a much more efficient and much better service for civilians in the capital area. Hv. In fact, a senator did not establish the policy of the Central Party when it comes to urban planning, but I realize that it may take a little longer to review those factors. But because I know what to do. I think a senator has long understood what a city line he likes to come up here and use all sorts of ideas in it. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must have realized that we are talking about a bus in a special space. It is simply a more practical and better solution. So I hope that when we end this discussion all together, there will be a reason. A senator joined us, for in the capital area, we, like all other urban communities around us, need to build powerful public transportation. [[The president calls.]] The idea of a city line and an agreement with your rural society is simply the most practical and best way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u128	Mr. President. How can a bus in a special space, like a dog? A senator called it, or in a special lane, cost 100 billion according to plan, and then upcoming 200 billion in real life? V.E.G. Secretary of finance, however, has acknowledged that the city line remains a mystery. But, hey. A senator knows, and he seems to think it's just a special street priority. Hv. A senator also asked me about my view of city planning in general and referred me to carriages. The problem with the comparison is that there is something wrong. A senator here, a city line, is just an idea from the time of the carriages. It's linear transportation. And as the tip of the independent people in Reykjavík has so well explained, people are trapped in the past, trapped in the 19th century, trapped in the time of the horse cars. There we are not in the Central Party, but I will need more time to explain my policy in the planning of the city in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u129	Madam President. I want to thank you again to the highest. Secretary of finance for the past at the beginning of this discussion. We'll discuss a bill on clearance to establish an official transport building organisation in the capital area. This is a bill that can be said to establish agreements as secretary of finance, Prime Minister and Transportal Ministers signed with the mayor or mayor of the capital area on September 26, 2019. Most people should know the discussion that started with that agreement. It can be said that in every step of the previous year, rural society has actually strengthened its position in this particular agreement. For example, the warning of an approved budget seems to be more in word than on table. It is a requirement that the budget be submitted every year, but if you read through the text of the agreement, there are just a number of times under which the government's representatives sign that if there are any abnormalities, the seminars should sit down and agree on the agreement's implementation. Surely there are not many examples of the complete implementation of an agreement that frames in the way the state deals with rural society with road construction and the case we address here. I'm suggesting that ever be settled down with national or rural groups in the country and put in an investment plan so that the State will directly commit itself to complete them at certain times, as is done in the implementation of this project until 2033, and the whole agreement will be more and less determined that the State will have every option to complete it. With good intentions, you can read some phrases in such vague sentences in the agreement, but with all that is involved in the whole case, the project becomes more expensive than expected, it seems somewhat unknown how it will be solved. In fact, the people here see that it will not be solved except by the further efforts of the State. It's like the highest. The secretary of finance earlier said that the community's personal contribution is very little in this matter, and the financing is at government funds. It is held very open that the 60 billion who are looked for the possibility of being financed by quick or inflation, or whatever it will eventually be called, will be funded directly by property sales or similar items. So to be the framed, the funding of this total package is all in the holding of the state funds, but the requirement and, in fact, the result of the whole project is largely part of the community. With regard to costs in this case, it is best to put it in such a way as to panic. I'm sending a request to the highest level. A minister in January asked if the management board of the new Hospital had informed the government of updated land hospital budgets. It's May now, and there's not yet been any answers. I'll tell myself it's because things are going on there, expensively speaking. I make it clear that those who look at the cost programmes that depend on this matter are looking at them with considerable notice of the results. It's estimated to be 120 billion. If the conclusion is that it will eventually be 160 billion, this results in 50%, which is very successful in terms of urban projects in a few Scandinavian and European cities, then the total cost to the state's budget is high. I don't think it's actually an invitation other than that it's the framed in a more detailed way in the law so that future councils and future governments are not tied up in some cell that eventually turns out to be completely out of control. I don't seem to have anything to do with this, the whole city line of ideas, suggesting that, after a few years, people will open up the possibility that they will get all of this together, if you can say, "Well, did you really get results with all this decimal injection? As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir The Sigmundur of Gunnlaugsson Gunollon above were the result of billions of bars in the Bus, in connection with a special agreement to stop major projects in the capital area, none. 4% and 4% today, respectively. If during this urban exercise there are tens of billions of dollars and the percentage of lost travel remains 4%, then there will be no one here in this council hall who is responsible, but, of course, the highest responsibility. A president who takes it to himself with great generosity at the moment. They will be turned to the sea in due time. There is an excellent chance that this practice will be overexpensively paid by a government fund. I was only able to understand that I would be surprised if representatives of the country were to be offered a similar agreement with the government, which made it very clear what transport was going on for the next 15 years. It is familiar with the fact that all who live in the country of every bad suite are involved when vital transportation is delayed year after year, election period after election, and people just shrug their shoulders and say: There is no money to do this. All of this is taken out of the picture with the capital area in this agreement and the current legal bill. It seems to me that the government's message is going to be the best thing to take the state hostage. I'm just gonna let myself describe it this way. The road and the government have been taken hostage today for a long time by the rural areas in the capital area and, of course, especially by the representatives of Reykjavíkurburg, since the construction stop laid on in the agreement where a billion additional ones were placed in the bustorium is a part of the problem we have been facing with traffic knots for quite some time. Just a review of yesterday's news item to identify the vision of those who conduct the city of Reykjavík in this regard. Just yesterday they told me that things had been arranged in such a way that the bus has to be stopped in the middle of the street with the possibility of an accident. It's so obvious that it's all going to work out and slow down the private car. I would have long believed that the Independence Party was involved in such exercises, but I can see what would happen. Of course, it is a special point to investigate that after the last 10How 15 years of swimming, an agreement should be framed at 120 billion in which a catacomb is mentioned in a sort of bypass, and no particular way to sneak in. It has just been reported that once Reykjavíkurburg made a decision to rule out the most economic advantage the Roadmaker had ever made, it will be on another board to try to figure out which route it is best. That sad story is likely most of us, if not all. The relationship between the state and the city of Reykjavík has recently been such an enormity, over a considerable number of terms, to put fear into them. To highlight this communication, a letter was received last by the city council to the management of the Environment and Transport Committee, where it was declared that the basis for the agreement between the secretary of transportation and the mayor, for the investigation of the Whalesun, was completely smiling because of the manner of the city's representatives. It appears that there is a signing agreement, and it always seems that government representatives will yield to the inconsistency demands made or interpretation of contracts that have already been signed. And when men, and I allow myself in this case to mention especially the highest. Transporter, it seems that there is a particular way to negotiate with the transport of the Department of Transport and Reykjavíkurburg rather than to increase the number of the contracts. Participation is suggested here to be useful if it is intended for the right thing. We in the Central category proposed at the beginning of the year, in conjunction with the suggestions we called triumping in the interest of jobs, a proposal to take on very substantial initiatives on the basis of borrowing, where they would make a total of about 150 billion in the next six years to build the foundation of the job environment and its projects. Businesses such as this could well carry on such projects, handle the assets that would come out of such a source, and be loaned and paid from those loans, including with direct donations from the wealth of the state or the financial resources of the transport programme and so on. The existence of a part - time organization does not have to be of the bad, really not. But the stock's cradle is, first of all, that if anything is taken out of a plan, and now the plans are quite critical, then all agreements for setting it right should do so in the presupervision, as stated at the end of chapter 3 of the bill's report, by permission of the President: The basis for building up cannot be funded under the implementation and funding programme provided in the Annex to the Treaty is expected to be discussed by the parties as soon as possible on how we should fail to ensure that the implementation will be carried out in accordance with the implementation of a work programme (in accordance with this decision). So there's nothing to negotiate with. If we keep in mind that the state's budget has all the cost of this matter, it's just a message that the government's representatives, if something goes wrong, whether it's 50% or 100% outrunning or what it may be, just sit down and swallow the financial blow and find ways that the state will pay the bill and all the projects will take place within the range of the bill up to 15 years. V.E.G. President. This does not seem to me to show that the government representatives have guided the interests of the taxpayers in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The talk, but I think it's important, especially in view of the urgency of the occasion. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason is now chairman of the Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee, covering certain things. I thought why. A senator speaks in some way that the rural areas in the capital area were in his pocket. This is a big misunderstanding, and when it comes to the discussion of transportation and public transportation, it is a bit important to keep things in order. I would like to start by saying that in 2019 the rural areas at the capital area were 3.8 billion in public transport. The government that made a contract that has always been spoken of as one billion a year paid 887 million, so let us completely maintain that the billions promised in the capital area have never been delivered by public transportation. It's been between 800,900 million. K. Every year, so I think it is right for me to think that my rural communities in the capital area are the only communities that are paying by public transportation. I know Akureyri runs her own bus system, but other than that, local communities have been returning public transportation because the government has not been enough to fire them. I'm just going to reiterate in these numbers that I just mentioned earlier isn't the tourism services of the disabled, sometimes in comparable numbers with other rural communities. It is also important to maintain it that over a ten - year period, funds for the capital area of 70% of the population have been about 16% of all new profits. And then one more thing. A senator entered the proportion of those who made use of public transportation. That's right. We have not achieved the goals we have set for that purpose, but that does not mean that there has been an increase in passengers in the Bus. [[The president calls.]] There have been increases in the range 5, 6, 7 and 8% between years. The traffic has only increased so much in the capital area, but I wish that we too would have been successful when we reached our ratio. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u131	I appreciate the answer. First, I'd like to start with that as a little bit. paritaprevir But at the end of the day, Br rather Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir came: It would be better to see that the number of passengers in the Streets had increased in the head, but the proportion being the same after all this effort must be completely disappointing. I'd like to ask, although I'm not in the position to ask questions right now, but because we have a little more time: what percentage from the beginning of that contract of the construction stop to today would have what? A senator Counts Happy? What percentage of lost travel would have been involved. A senator said, "We made it, did it work out?" Would that have been 6, 8, 10, 12%? That would be interesting to hear. I'm afraid I will. A senator is confused to some extent; for transport in the country, it's about transportation between areas, not within the countryside. The last ten years will tell you why. A senator said that the money for new projects in the capital area was 16% of all funds for new projects. I haven't looked at this number, but I'm gonna go for it. A senator has put it together. Based on government, road, government, and government projects that have been wanting to take all this time, the fact that it is the greatest wonder that 16% of the budget was being established here in the capital area, since the rural areas in the capital area took the initiative to make a work - stop deal, no major projects. Of course, it causes a lower percentage to the capital area, there is nothing else that can do. That's why I'm talking about these projects being held hostage in the local capital area recently.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u132	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is entering a contract he calls a construction stop, and it is also very important to assume that the contract did not go to a construction stop. That agreement went on several major projects that were said not to be carried out for the next ten years. But that did not mean that there should be no construction in the capital area. My rural society has held this up, which is why it is important for me to make this statement right here. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee, that it is part of the projects that the rural community was always in the meaning of, but it has not been carried out in such a way that the State has not maintained its share. The number of passengers in the Bus increased by 2.7 million in 2011:2018. I would have liked to see during this period, as the goals were set, that the proportion of travel had come up to 8%, but unfortunately, we are not in that number, unfortunately. So our problem now is that if, for example... The middle class, as he has spoken now, does not believe in this assignment, what does it have to believe? How are we going to solve the traffic crisis in the capital area? As mentioned in my case earlier, when I answered. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, with all the major experts in the capital area, the rural communities have been in charge of this project. All urban communities around us have been looked forward to, which we would like to apply. This is the best solution for me. This is a reconstituted solution because we provide individual freedom to choose which means of transportation they want to use. The private car is still in place and should be able to drive through the countryside. So will the city line. The bus will be inside, and here people can ride and walk, or take other transportation options, and I think that's important. I think it's important to go. A senator will keep this up, and I won't doubt it. The Environment and Transport Committee will receive representatives of the rural areas in its capital area for their discussion of this project. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] It's part of a budget board. On the other hand, I encourage you. A senator to read and listen to what rural areas in the capital area have had to move in these areas because I think it's important for the chairman to be clear. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir for the answer. I would have liked to have this case for the environment and transportation committee. But that will not be so unless something is specific. But then I'll start with it as soon as possible. A senator came in at the end, where she spoke of people's freedom of choice, of allowing people to decide what solution they wanted to get from A to B. People have just been chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u134	Is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u135	The private car has been selected. This effort is facing billions of people each year in order to support the bus, and there was no result.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u136	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u137	Hv. A senator, the proportion of lost travel was 4.0% at the start of the campaign, which is still 4%.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u138	6% according to the latest...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u139	Hv. paritaprevir His wife, Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, said earlier that 8% of her gone travel had been acceptable, as she put it, acceptable 8%. [[Up front.]] Yeah, 8%. Hv. A senator estimated that a 100% - percent increase in the number of travel was an acceptable result. The result was 0 when an acceptable increase was 100%. As far as I know, the proportion of lost travel is 4% according to the latest data. So acceptable results in increases were 100%. The result was 0. That's why I say, we have to be careful in these matters. But then I come to the question, What do we believe in? I think it would be wise to start handling the lights in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u140	That's part of the deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u141	It's just part of the agreement, and it's actually really amazing that it hasn't been run through so long, and that's what I'm gonna be supporting with all my power. I think that could be very effective. I think big projects would need to continue instead of making a contract to stop the most important projects, which is exactly what was done in the contract I called a construction stop. [[Up front.]] Yes, but this agreement is achieved by taking the roadtype and the government into account transport conditions as a hostage. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's just the way it was. If that's not the understanding of the former director of transportation in Mosfellstown, if I recall correctly, then we need to talk in time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u142	There was little for a promise of what happened. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u143	I'll keep that next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u144	President. I was about to start my speech differently, because I don't want to speak here the most foolishness, but I can't let it fail to change my plans for the ancient man's sake. Environmental and Transport Committees, what is it? paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason. Let's pretend it's just that politics is talking about taking the road type hostage. Are we in five-year-olds talking, Mr. President? It's a deal everyone's having open eyes, but it's appropriate for the Polish Tribal to speak magnificently. Then I'll do it, fuck the consequences. But the Chairman of the day. The environment and transport committees are not better equipped for public transport in the capital area than they are not familiar with the latest travel survey. Enough of what. A senator and his party were saying that the experiment was not successful. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason spoke it over here and there. paritaprevir Would Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson have said nothing about it. What was the purpose of the arrangement? Yes, 2022, this was supposed to be increased by 8%. According to a survey by the Department of Transport at the end of 2019, this has been reported to be about 6%. Isn't that a major success, Mr. President? Is it not something to rejoice at, but do not always talk about, like, some dog bite, that a great deal of people choose to go on public transportation? How does the Central Party provide transportation in the capital, when speaking to one side so about public transportation? Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir attended the increase in 2011 -2018, about 2.7 million, at the Busto. How does it matter? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason and others in the Middle Ages were seen in traffic if all these people hadn't chosen to go to the bus? Then, I must say, President, there is a strange approach to say and, falsely, that since not all the goals of promoting the current public transport systems in the capital area, the yellow bus in traffic traffic jams, have been reached, everything has been tried by public transportation. Isn't the Central Party's idea flight any more than that? This is where yellow bus drive. They're not walking. Ergo: Public transportation is not going. This is a response to the failure of a step that has not been made to expand the share. This is a response by offering an even more powerful alternative when it comes to public transportation. No why. A member of the Central Party who has taken up here in a pita, either today or in any other discussion related to these matters, and has been some of them, has ever told how to solve the destination of 70,000 new residents, who will be predicted to move here in the following about a year. 20 years. It's been six years since those predictions were made, and there will be more than 70,000 because, as I went to the answer to what happened. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson has grown beyond forecasts. I can't wait for these suggestions, but the same old, grandish political bitch who's about to put it in silence and use words like hostage and Berlin in 1960. Oh, my God, this is such a boring Polish bitch. Give me some suggestions, let's talk about them. What are the costs of all the abuses that the Middle Party dreams of building? What problem do they solve? How do they affect traffic flows? We're talking about light control here. It's in the agreement that's under here. It's like some circus here, chief. President. Enough about the nonsense that's been flying in this conversation, though I'm afraid it's not the last thing you'll ever say about the crap you're talking about in this pit compared with the rosary and the counterlist. What are they doing? What's going on here that's going into some of the finest nerves in this case and acting like it's here being invented something completely ignorant in the world and how does anyone think of other such nonsense? Yes, it is being done, I'm not saying in everyone, in countless cities around the world, many of them much bigger than Reykjavík, many similar size. And remember, we're not talking about Reykjavík, so I corrected myself, President, but the whole capital area. This has even been done in smaller cities. And what's the idea? Yes, they're offering a high-speed public transportation system. The nature of the case depends on a line, a city line, because that's what it's about. The head of the Central Party does not seem to have realized what the city line is despite many years of discussion on that subject. To admit that you don't understand matters in such a long time, it's a bold statement, but let it be. Then it goes out to the neighborhood, yeah, where some other traveling people gather on top of the main roads. Is this such a revolutionary idea that people have to talk about hostage, and I don't know what? No, this is what all other nations are doing. Go to every one - well, I'm not saying too much here, but I go to big cities in the United States and towns, go to Norway, where there's a lot of opposition to the third energy package at home and we've picked up there. Why is everybody doing this? We're here making it look like there's some kind of routine operation, they're taking people hostage. What a load of shit, Mr. President. These are ambitious aims to meet the growing need for transport in a more varied way; just in a more varied way. Those who want to go on their private car continue to do so. Hopefully, the number of people who prefer it will decrease, not just in emissions, but in floundering, and so on, while some people need cars. Fine. Those who dream of just being on a private car and never going up in public transportation should be key supporters of the city line being realized, for then less cars will be on the streets, and people will just have to wait a little less. What are we doing? A self-sustaining carbon-free society. Is it that scary? Is it not worth one Mass when all the rural governments around us have met with the government that this is a way to do so? Is it not good, then, to work at it and examine it? It speaks of rural society as holding the State as a hostage and the government as paying for everything. Farmers bring their contributions back. It is important that this issue work rapidly and safely because the situation is set in motion, so we are waiting to get started. The rural communities have funding waiting for this government community to become a reality, so that jobs can be created. Is it that bad? No, President. There's been a lot of circles here that's been going on. And it is not a community around the city line something that no one in the world has ever thought of doing and showing what ministers in this government are very concerned about. No. In all urban communities in Norway, the exact same thing has been done because it makes sense. Nobody's bringing up stories about Berlin from 1960 or talking about the state that swallows it, or I don't know what or what. No, people look at it and see: Yes, it's a reasonable landing. Let's stop some big stuff trying to push ourselves into politics. Let's look beyond our own belly button. Let's watch the problem we need to solve. If people do not consider this solution to be reasonable, they may be afraid to come up with a solution to other means of mobilizing people. Men would be greater if they did. President. I don't think I have it much further. It is so obvious to me that this is the right way to work on the goals we have set for working on a more healthy community here in the capital area. Is that something we're against or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u145	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Left green, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, for the first speech. I looked at it now and then. A senator is a smart man. I found a report on this travel probe from March 19 on the Board's Homepage. I must admit that I had not read this survey, much reading, and most of it on Covid and economic issues in the past few weeks. But it says, the use of public transportation goes up to 5%. Hv. A senator claimed it was 6%, and the difference between 5% and 6% may not be too great. However, there is a significant difference when the proportion of lost travel has been 4% over the entire period of action, and then it jumps to 5% for one year. Then I think it's a suggestion I'd like to suggest and ask. The senator's attitude toward it, in view of the 25% increase in proportion between years; 4% reported travel to 5% more travel is an increase of 25%: perhaps. A senator saw that we would then extend the present arrangement for a few years to see if there is any basis for a 25% increase in proportion each year? Or is it? A senator completely hooked up to the point that the only thing involved is a city line? Because if the result is that there was a 25% increase in the number of years after the neck of the decades in 4%, then there is a reason to test whether this growth is the result. And if that growth comes to be, and then we will have achieved the goals of what we do. paritaprevir In a few years, the powers of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir don't take tens of millions of projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u146	President. For the tour, I was looking at figures in Reykjavík and possibly talking about the capital area all the time. In Reykjavík it's been about 6%, but in the capital area it's all about 5%, so I corrected myself, if it gets out of my way earlier. Am I ready to see if that's not enough? What for? Am I ready to sit and hope to see that this will be in some way - To what, Mr. President? All the rural areas in the capital area have gathered. Hv. paritaprevir The prison of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir covered the process earlier, how different categories in every capital area had been sitting with the government, and how to resolve a solution. The middle party should try sometimes to be involved in this, not always be alone in return. He senses that there is a measure of well - being, especially in today's situation, in which the Icelandic nation has endured hardships together. Why should that not be a valid agreement? Keep it up? When all the tests that have been carried out in a similar way - here was spoken just as the Stafri city line was a mess. She's not even on the job yet. She's no more of a mess than that. Why should we not follow the way that has been shown to be effective elsewhere? Why the hell not, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u147	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér responds. This time, I must appear as a representative of the taxpayers. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé gave just an inspired talk about the great success that had been achieved from year to year in the present system. Hv. A senator earlier said that the proportion of road travel has reached 5 to 66%, depending on the area examined. He claims that there was a high rate of success, an increase of 25◯50%, over the course of years. As a representative of the taxpayers, I have to say that I find it absolutely amazing if that's true. A senator does not want to test whether the present arrangement contributes to further growth in this proportion. At the same time, we could e.g. endogenous light management, which has been incompetent for a long time, is introduced by modern technology. It is obvious to everyone that Reykjavík's ministries on transportation are turning around to delay the private car. So I have to ask again as a representative of the taxpayers, as we're all in here, Count why. A member of the Council of Public Health, placing tens of billions in a so - called city line that he criticized. The chairman of the Central Party, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, for not being able to grasp what was in all her years of discussion? At the same time, the highest. A financial minister came up here and described a similar understanding, or lack of understanding, of what is involved. If the highest. The secretary of finance, with all the information he has access to, is not surprised that it is vague in the minds of many. Is absolutely impossible. A senator is willing to give the present arrangement a little more time, since, at last, after all the time no one was reached, is finally achieving success?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u148	President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should speak to the chairman of the party. As far as I know, he was especially happy that he finally understood the best. Secretary of finance this. But, Mr President, forgive me, I don't want to be involved in such an outback, acting like someone doesn't understand the city line. The people who will admit it shamelessly are saying: "Dear nation! [[Up front.]] I haven't read the data that are behind this case. [[Up front.]] But it's all right then. The members of the Central Party come in line here and acknowledge that they have not studied the data that are behind the great expenditures presented here. [[Up front.]] That's fine. Hv. A senator said in answer to an answer, but I can't remember the sequence that was at the gate. Parliamentaries, who had a word to say. paritaprevir Bryndís daughter Haraldsdóttir's case earlier, that, of course, there had not been an increase in public transportation since traffic had increased so much elsewhere. Now he's talking about getting so tight on his private car. How did the use of a private car increase so much in Reykjavík, if any. The members of the Central Party are right about the authorities across the street trying to squeeze into the private car everywhere? Is it worth it, asking why? Senator, to go on it? Yeah. Is it worth creating a non-carbon, man - made community? Yeah. Is it worth working and taking a big step in reducing emissions from traffic, toward transport energy exchange, toward reaching our international commitments? Yeah. Is it worth the rest of the capital area? Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u149	A respectable president. I didn't intend to give another talk, but I really couldn't help it because the answers were over. I just wish you would. paritaprevir Sir, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has been living here for a long time because I want to introduce it in my speech that it is basically comparing apples and oranges in this matter. For example, do there be some cases of 200,000 cities in Scandinavia or Europe, as widespread as it is here, with what is called the city line? Are these examples? Is it not true that there have been overcrowded places of work in the same area? That's what causes these huge flounders and knots that we all know, especially around the Land Hospital and campuses. This is a regular part of the discussion: What is the solution, according to the Central Party? The solution is, as I came on, to a shorter time of light control and to continue to allow important initiatives. It is that by means of the organizational authority, people are distributing large work areas across the capital area. The Central Party criticized, e.g. The construction of a new Hospital on Ring Road. It would have been a far better option for him to be at Vifils, or in Köldnaland, now to be decommissioned by some exercise in the city line. These are the solutions that are available and can be made immediately. The solutions are over there. This crap, this terminal that has been bitten by a member of Congress, that the so - called city line is a cure - it seems there is no way to reason with those who have become believers in these matters. I feel as if there were better lights and more modern light control. Of course, if it is true that they can reduce their stop time by 30% plus/minus, it is completely insane that the project within the capital area has not been completed long. We are watching the tribulations in Reykjavík, the city, without letup, exerting pressure on the private car and traffic flow. As I entered my speech earlier, Geirsgata just last night, where a bus stops in the middle of the street. The solutions are there, but a huge point is that large areas of work need to be distributed better. Of course, it is part of the organizational authority of Reykjavík, the city that they have made consciously decide not to use. They have a new organizational means to squeeze as much as possible to the area of Reykjavík, Canada, with a view to getting rid of it, tightening all traffic, and so on. I can see why. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé has been asking for an answer and I want to ask him a question, I know that there is no obligation to answer, but I would still like to ask him this question that I opened my speech on: There are many 200,000 cities in Europe that he knows, built up like Reykjavík in such a vast area and the capital area all, Reykjavík and adjacent rural areas, which have a city line on which he knows. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé speaks for? Counts 'em out. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé justifys pressured these goals by pressing on the private car, which, in spite of all the tourism that most of the people of the capital and people of all countries have chosen?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u150	President. The second question, though, is nonsense and not worth the answer. It would be fine if it were. A senator listened to himself. When he has to criticize, he just talks about Reykjavík. That's when the city line is just about Reykjavík. Then he sometimes remembers that this is much more than Reykjavík. This is Garden Town, Mosfellstown, Hafnarfjördur and Seltjanarnes. Harmless dog. Central Party Parliaments on the city authorities in Reykjavík embarrassingly color their application. The whole capital area, wherever people stand, came to this like a whale. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir described. I'm not gonna waste my time on this shit with a second answer. Yes, there are 200,000 cities and all that is needed is to examine the available data. Þrándur, we've named him here and Álún. These are smaller cities than the capital area, 120,000 in Alaborg. Stavger is similar to the size of the capital area. Odinvík, Sullivan, Oullu. I'll pass it out. A senator's list is empty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u151	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It was not a personal question in the counter-sponsor.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u152	...in a speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u153	- Right on. But I completely refuse that there is some special dislike against my opinion. I object to the way Reykjavíkurburg has handled its organizational affairs in connection with traffic flows and transportation, which I will be the first to admit, but that doesn't have any general hostility against Reykjavíkurborg, my God, do not say this kind of endey, why. Senator. [[Up front.]] The traffic problem, the flow, is all about how Reykjavíkurburg has handled its affairs. Of course, all the neighbors are involved in this matter, and it would be better now. It's right in front of us. They are party to the agreement here that is trying to frame in with this legislation. Reykjavíkurburg has had every available option in the past few years that most of it is available to the private car. I allow myself to use the word that there will be a mischievous crisis when it comes to the hostility of the current agency in Reykjavík. I'm not going to get into some hot stuff like what? A senator has done something in his reply, but I reiterate and leave this question: Count back. A senator presupposes that these goals are achieved by placing costs in particular to squeeze into the private car, not by promoting the ability of public transport, but by pressing directly toward the private car?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u154	Madam President. I'm already becoming unsigned to my words, I said I didn't say I'd spend more time in this nonsense, but I'm actually coming to say it again to the question of why. A senator is wrong. It takes only to examine the annual accounts of the rural communities that form the capital area in order to see the financial resources that have taken various roads and so on. He only needs to listen to himself. He speaks of the speed of traffic because of the private car, which explains why the number of 2.7 million of passengers in the bus does not give rise to a higher proportion, since the number of cars is increasing. Hv. A senator may occasionally try to be consistent with himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u155	Mr. President. It was kind of an option. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé seems to be the most widely read reader in these studies, and he knows a travel report outside the book, apparently, apart from losing a few dozen percent when the increase in percentages is expressed. [[Up front.]] The difference between going from 4% to 5% and 4% to 6%, like a whale. A senator said that 25 is compared to a 50% increase. But because of him. A senator came to see that it was natural that this goal could not be achieved because there was such an increase in private driving, then in this same report on the Board's website: ▪ If you look at the capital area, it is especially seen that the use of a private car reduces by 2 percentage points...◯ Then I will listen to myself more than you will listen to me. [[Up front.]] It doesn't hold a thought where it's at any point. A senator says here. I yield to the choice of words and approach he takes, to speak out a little from the saddle of the high horse, and to count everyone but misread and ill, and to have different goals in these matters, when, first of all, it is trying to protect the interests of taxpayers, that tens of billions will not be put on missions without any conviction that it is worth more than the current approach. If, in fact, the proportion of lost travel on Bus last year increased from 4% to 5% and the objective is 8%, then I suggest we give it three years. Let's introduce the lights and do our best in that subject, and let's start a specific structure. But let's put the city line, that vague concept, into salt for three years and see if it's 1 percent a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u156	Mr. President. I have to ask the highest. Mr President, I'm sorry that I'm almost here with a mother and a spirit of breath. I was trying to do a warning on a financial and business bill. All of this is happening at the same time this evening. I missed a talk. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppér, if it was very damaging, I pray to the highest degree. President to let me know so I can respond. I had proclaimed that I would be here with a short speech to review the nature of this public community suggested here to be established, and there I will only refer to the bill itself, rather than be very careful about what is to be expected, but men will be able to fill the gaps. We've seen it before, Mr. President, when it's formed such a community and where it leads. Page 4 of the bill begins with this remarkable sentence, with the permission of the president: In cooperation with Vega's development of the transport project, the Agency will take care of a city line workshop. In other words, until this organization, which is foretold to be established by the government, is to be started and to be handled by who? A site office on a city line has had any doubts about what was the main purpose of this bill. The same page says: The company's activities are keeping an investment in transport for the next 15 years, to be no less than that. Then you can ask yourself, " Does the government assume that the next five, six governments will agree? ' Perhaps it doesn't matter, it's time for tea, line, city line, and it doesn't matter what elected agents will want to do about it, because the system simply keeps going on. On page 8 of the bill says, by permission of the President: Therefore, it is important that the organisation oversees and oversees the construction of transport workers to the road structure and may plan and risk management for the overall project. In other words, it is being emphasized that this new society should accept what would otherwise be the authority of democratic elected agents, hence voters. This is a system area, and by cutting down democracies in transport. If we grab down to the next page, page 9, that's where we say, by permission of the president: Then the special management group of owners, as further developed in the stock market, will be expected to review policy issues related to the project and provide support for dealing with problems that may arise. Guards, e.g. significant changes in plans for the transport contract or the purpose or role of the club are aimed at setting it up in the control group. What does this tell us? I don't have time to read it again, though there is a reason. This tells us that if there is a change in policy, it should not be recorded here at the council, not in elections, not among politicians or voters. No, a management group that will specifically be created will solve it for the company that then keeps the project going. Back to page 9, lower: To consider, there is the fact that the rights and responsibilities associated with the country are shifting towards the club. It emphasizes that a real estate society is being created, that the state is entering a real estate crisis, and that it will bring rights and obligations related to the country to the council from the council, from democratic elected representatives. On page 18. 10, with President's permission: Therefore, the work of the Society is to take care of the development of the country in cooperation with its planning authorities, where special emphasis is placed on maximising the value of the country and its building opportunities by means of a practical organization and the innovation rate that conforms to the city's urban strategy for denseisation based on the urban transport and development issues. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Is this bill written by the mayor of Reykjavík or by anyone else in the mayor? [[The president calls.]] I can't get through all of this, I'll just let it go for now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u157	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the terms of sensuousness, law order, etc., with the aim of strengthening freedom of expression by improving the law against media law. The code of press law includes a prerequisite limit of expression freedom, which must be set out in particular by the Constitution and by the European Convention of Human Rights. There, however, the limit of freedom of expression and privacy is tested, as well as that kind of ban can block or prevent democratic discussion when language on a subject for the common people is predetermined, such as in the leading election. Such damages will hardly be measured to the extent of a certain amount of money and see what they should demand of compensation. Obviously, the significance of the media is for democratic coverage, so it is urgent that the ban on the media be promptly solved. This bill, therefore, provides suggestions designed to strengthen the implementation of the statute and to speed up the treatment where possible, to protect the rights of a candidate, and to tolerate such a procedure. At the shape of the proposals of the bill, they have been met with views without compromising the existing legal process. In this regard, a simple and clear trial for a businessman and a court of law is suggested with Article 1. the bill that a candidate will always be obliged to provide temporary guarantees for possible damage when requested by law against publication. True, such a duty may be burdensome to a candidate, but in contrast, the opportunity to publish material plus the right to be protected by the 73th C.E. expression of freedom of speech is rich. The constitution. At the same time, the importance of an exposé directed at its release is called for. With 2 st. The bill is suggested that the legal management of a businessman will be restricted as possible and given only in exceptional circumstances. Then it is emphasized that the county manager always speeds up as there is any treatment for law enforcement in the light of the democratic interests below. Therefore, it is suggested that the person's freedom to negotiate monthly will be limited to a large degree so that the case will be completed as soon as possible and without any unnecessary effort. In order to improve the accelerated treatment of confirmed cases following a court order, Article 3 have been proposed. The bill for them to follow XIX. section of the Treaty on private matters, on the emergency of private matters, as appropriate. Especially, then, is this the chapter that allows judges to have more control over a case than in general and their rules on a shorter lawsuit and an appeal period. Quick treatment of such factors is vital, however, that the first finding to determine whether a ban has been properly laid in the light of the rights protected by 73rd. The constitution. With a section four. Finally, the bill is presented with strict improvements in such matters, and a judge authorized to judge benefits as a result of damages caused by the publication of material were prevented by a ban or a request for it. Clearly, loss, e.g., may be difficult to estimate. due to lost advertisements or less sales options. Thus, a judge's authority is stated in Article 4. The bill to appreciate such damage to the opinion, has failed to prove the amount of it. These are the details of the bill in these four articles, and I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u158	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story, and I'm glad this case has come to pass. Of course, there is a tendency. We saw this happening in the leading of the 2017 election that there was a ban on the news of a media transfer to financers of the then prime minister, the current highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni, son of Benediktsson, two weeks before election. The damage that this would bring to the courts would not be restored, since the trial in court was over a year and therefore it realized that the value of the information forbidden by the Master's Evening Meal was, of course, forbidden to have been in labor. It is a pleasure to see that there is considerable speed on the situation. The one quoted here twice stated that this decision would simply be taken out of the hands of the county because at an open meeting of the administrative and surveillance committee, which is referred, in fact, to the report by the bill, it was found that the businessman just did not seem to have a basic understanding of the terms of freedom of expression and how to evaluate it. At that time, I felt like placing it in the hands of courts that have made a big difference when it comes to the protection of expression freedom in Iceland. In this context, I'd like to ask, because the billwriter and the highest. A minister here makes a decision to continue his decision in the hands of the businessman, how long a treatment of the courts will take. Is there some kind of plan on it, if it happens as it happened in the case of the hour, that the participants appeal indefinitely, etc., how long would the media have to wait until their final solution to the courts?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. The work of a committee under prime minister emphasized the need to improve the development and legislation of expression freedom and media freedom. We agree, of course, on the importance and importance of the media for democratic coverage, but here we are taking into account some of the points that have been made, but it was not specifically considered, either in the Ministry of Justice or in the committee I referred to, and Prime Minister Eiríkur Jónsson directed, to take this from a businessman, for which it would be a major change. Here are the traditional legal treatments that must, of course, be found between respecting the laws of privacy and freedom of expression and the media. I think that the way we're going here, where both the time frame reforms and reforms are being negotiated, are very good. Regarding the question of how long this will take, it is difficult to determine. This rapid treatment of private treatments is this reason why things are going as fast as possible through the system. And by also taking full notice of the businessman, I put high hopes that this can go through very quickly and the result will be acquired as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u160	A respectable president. It is a good thing that a businessman is under obligation to accept a reference to freedom of expression because at a proposed open meeting, it was just stated that the county had not considered the terms of freedom of expression by the Constitution and not the European Convention of Human Rights when he decided to set a ban on the occasion. This was very clear in his case, so it may be fine to have him legally obliged to respond when necessary. It is, in itself, positive. Therefore, when it comes to ban media coverage, taking into account the freedom of expression will change the miserable procedure of the county. But in terms of the deadline, there is a relatively short period of time a very elastic term, especially when court treatment is due, so I would like to ask the highest degree. Minister if she has any gross numbers. Are we talking about a few months? Are we talking about a year? Are we talking about a few weeks? I don't get it right. Although I have not been very aware of how quick treatment will take place, I would have thought it would be good to have some sort of minimum standards because a few weeks can now make a major difference in media media coverage, enormously much. Are we talking about days, weeks, months, years? Even if it was only such a waste of time that I would get from the highest level. A minister would be right away to clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u161	A respectable president. Yeah, I can say what. Senator that we're just talking a few weeks, but I can't exactly figure out how many days there's gonna be. It's hard to say. I'd estimate it would be less than a month, and take few weeks, but I may not be able to get specific on that. During prompt treatment, the matter is being promptly assigned. It is not to be given every day unless absolutely necessary, a deadline is only 24 hours, and judgment is to be made as fast as possible. Of course, all steps involved are being speeded up. I hope this answers a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u162	A respectable president. I came up here to celebrate the contributions of this bill. I am very happy that at last you will respond to the terrible situation that you can put a ban on the media coverage of important issues that are relevant to the public and that they can take over a year of treatment. There's an impossible situation, a respectable president, and it's amazing that she's been tolerated for all this time. We know that two weeks before the last district election of 2017, a ban was set on the hour's discussion of economicism at the time of prime minister, and this was done immediately before election. Now the district has discovered it had or had at least the elections themselves, which is an extremely serious democratic matter, made it very important for me to respond immediately to this position and prevent it from repeating itself. But, unfortunately, the priorities were not to be found by the prime minister who appointed a special committee, which, of course, was very enjoyable and her work very good, but the commission made clear that the response to this tragic situation was not to be carried out until the latter part of the Commission's work period, although we were living in a democratic state that a ban had been put on media coverage right before elections to the prime ministers of the country at that time. In fact, it brought us to the Council of Europe, which pointed to this terrible position, the list of security of journalists, and the Kingdom information linked to it, so it can't exactly be said that it was a small deal. As a result, I ended up with a very serious matter, so I wanted to make a decision that was very important to react to much earlier. I think it's a good thing if a businessman didn't get himself involved in any more of the bans during this period, but it could've happened, and I'm surprised it hasn't been taken care of before. That's why I'd like to name a bill I also mentioned in return to the highest level. Minister of Justice, which I along with other insistences. Parliaments to make a decision on the legal application of the media from the county's hands and to the courts. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice of Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörn earlier came to the conclusion that this was not the case because it was such a fundamental change that it had not been possible. In fact, I'd like to mean that considering the county's conduct in this case, there was every reason to make a fundamental change in this arrangement, but I trust that this case will be at least in order to discourage stakeholders such as Glitness's fragility from framing the media' legal charges. I also hope that this will result in a better protection for the media in general against such unfounded bans. In this context, I would like to refer to two issues recommended by the Piratars in this council and to other forms of protection from the press against the harassment of powerful people, against the appeal of big business for their freedom of expression, and to support the decision of jugular costs. We are thus suggesting that courts need to back up their decisions when judging on the cost of the matter. This is because repeatedly the media find themselves stuck with heavenly accounts after winning a lawsuit against them because they are injured, e.g. einhver sues a media medium and accuses him of murder, and despite the fact that the media is working the case on the basis of expression freedom, the same polygrapher is stuck with the heavenly bills of a lawyer because legal bills are even divided or at least equal to legal bills. does not completely fall on the person who lost the case as it is a general court order. Hence, we feel that it is important to argue that a judicial decision needs to be made to make clear the motivation behind the media's paying for the expenses of a case they worked fully. On the other hand, we have a matter inside that does not necessarily involve much, but it is very important when it comes to equalizing oneself in just the case. It focuses on the amount required to receive an automatic lawsuit to a higher level of judgment. As the arrangement is now, the accuser is always much easier to get a negative result appeal to a higher court than to a charger. If the person demands millions of damages in the case of injury, it is always enough to get to a higher level of government, but it is not always the opposite. We'll make some adjustments. I just wanted to remind you in this context because I think it's very important for the media to be strong when it comes to the lawsuits and bans of powerful people who don't want them to do their job. I guess I'll let it all be over. I'm happy with this bill, but I might have liked to see a slightly clearer line about how fast this sort of thing can go and I would have thought that the courts could deliver it considerably faster if it went straight to them but still can completely cut me off at this approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u163	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the alien law, No. 80/2016, No. 97/2002. The bill was originally submitted to a 149th legislation of legislatures, which was merely a change of foreign law. There are also laws on the distribution of temporary employment rights of foreigners, as well as the taking into account some comments that have been made, including,. From the United Nations Refugee Organization. A reexamination of new laws on foreigners, which took place on January 1, 2017, has been found to correct, revise, and adjust some of their requirements so that the handling and implementation of the items that fall under them should be clear and transparent. The aims of the changes include the practical and effective handling of applications for international protection, which is always guided by the handling of these matters, as stated in the Government Convention. It is important to protect the protective system we have set up here in the country to assist those here seeking escape from persecution and death in their homeland. We want to do what is right for those who have the right to help and deliver their applications quickly and safely so that the system works best for those who need it, and by making better, more rapid adjustments, and less uncertain. Total global protection applications are still large and higher than in the countries around us or less than 900 applications last year. The composition of the group has also taken considerable changes, but most of the applications received in the current phrases were unfounded applications from secure sources or about 60% of applications, but in recent years it has been successful to stem them, although it is certainly possible that these applications are still being received. On the other hand, there has been a dramatic increase in the number of people seeking international protection again in Iceland, i.e. those who have been protected in another European country and have already received the assistance and rights available to citizens of the country in general. There has also been an increase in the number of people who are looking for protection in spite of having a payoff application in another European country. Eventually, the number of those who flee from life - threatening conditions and persecution in their homeland has increased considerably. There are matters that reside in the right protection system, but they now make the administration heavier, but they are also among the reasons for the number of refreshments that were last year. These are people who come from a life - threatening situation and persecution in their own country, but these matters also take longer on the system and longer in the service. Some 600 people usually accept service in this country while waiting for solutions to their application for international protection or reimbursement to another State, but because of the number of management companies, it is difficult to supply applications with efficiency and human kindness within an acceptable time, as well as the cost of future international protection initiatives is increasing rapidly and it is urgent to respond. We have seen too many examples in recent times that individuals and families are still waiting too long for a decision. It is important that those who are looking for and in the real need for international protection get their application done quickly and without doubt start working on their effective adaptation into Icelandic society. The bill enables the government to provide efficiency and humanitarian applications, which generally do not lead to global protection and thus reduce the number of applications. It is a fundamental precept that governments have space to focus on a group of candidates who are really in need for protection and protection. These changes would also reduce the cost of government funds and improve the management of public funds, as was so clearly shown in comments made by the Government Accounting Agency, which followed. that there is a need to improve efficiency, shorten the duration of treatment, and bring more money to the jury than that in 2018. The bill is also aimed at meeting comments made on the induction and application of the European Parliament's Directive and the Council No. 2008/115/EC on the deportation or deportation order in this country. Then new regulations are added to the alien law to provide the most efficient means of commitment to Iceland on the basis of the Schengen Containment. As I mentioned earlier, several changes have been made in the bill since its introduction. First of all, material changes have been made to respond to the comments of the Office for Refugees of the United Nations, which were transmitted by the Ministry. Second, it has been considered important to correct and paraphrase a few laws about foreigners regarding residence licenses in order to clarify the procedure and its implementation. Among the potential products listed in this bill are factors related to the publication of the biomaterials due to jobs requiring expertise, as a result of lack of staff, and as a result of environmental management. Finally, the bill points to the change in the law of professional rights of foreigners that foreigners who have been authorized on the basis of humanitarian views or special ties with the country will be excluded from the provision of temporary employment permits on the land and can work here. A respectable president. I will now explain the key elements of the bill. When there were apparently unfounded applications from candidates from secure countries, there was a rapid increase in the number of applications in the country a few years ago and was recommended by the current Justice Minister for the priorities of such applications in Regulation No. 775/2017, for the change in temporary regulations, No. 540/2017. Was there a definition of the term evidently an unfounded application and laid down the procedure for such applications. A member of the Foreign Committee found that certain requirements of the Regulation did not have adequate improvement. It is responded, in part brought into the law, and it is suggested in the bill that it should be further defined in the law when an application should clearly be considered unrecognizable and what it means to offer a clearly unsuspectable application for international protection in this country. Recently, persons who accept the services for international protection have increased and are as stated previously by 600 at that position and need to respond so that the management agency can deliver the application within an acceptable time so that candidates do not need to be served while the application is being treated longer than necessary. Therefore, decisions on rejection of material treatment are automatically lenient to non - Israelites and warnings for special reasons and do not apply to individuals who already have protection in other European countries end the protection system for those who do not have protection in other countries. The spontaneous charges assume that everyone will be revised on matters that do not receive material treatment from the Foreign Institute. Third, the bill suggests changes in the family unit of refugees that come to a country by government or by the host of refugees, and second, the family unit of refugees who have been protected by the country following their application. On the one hand, it is suggested that the law on granting permission to the population of Canaanite residents under 73 C.E. is clearly stated. foreign shapes. On this basis, hostilities in general will have the same right to family unity as to other foreigners, according to VIII. the part of the law. It is noted that the United Nations Refugee Organization often allows the family's unity for the arrival of refugees in Iceland, the armadabs, but not all members of the family are identified in the Agency's reports. In order to meet this group, the bill refers to the Regulation on the distribution of the residents in special cases for the inhabitants of the host of the host. However, it is suggested that those persons who come to the country on the basis of family harmony with an individual who has been protected internationally in this country do not have the same authority for further family unity. This adjustment suggests that only persons who have been protected internationally in Iceland can get their closest members to the country based on family unity and to meet this change are then expanded to the point where it also applies to the stepchildren of the original international protection. This ensures that individuals who are appointed by the arrangement are still keeping the right hold. Second, combined families are being met, and third, to prevent the possible misuse of the system. In the bill, then, the Foreign Institute is given fourth measure of authority to limit or cancel services in the event of a planned decision. The source has already been in Regulation, but it is appropriate to bring it into the law itself. This enables the Agency to take needed measures when needed and to adjust the level of service available to people in this position do not share the same viewpoints for individuals in this position as for those who are still awaiting a final and functional result. In the fifth place, a new selection, repeated application, requiring the specific presentation of repeated applications, allowing candidates for international protection to be revised in their decisions on the basis of new data and/or information. It replaces routine repercussion under administrative law and is specially tailored to the protective system to provide better efficiency in handling cases and to better explain the rightness of the individuals in this position. The concept follows its pattern in the Council Directive and the Council No. 2013/32/EU on minimum criteria for the management of refugees and the revocation of the situation or treatment order. Then, sixthly, some changes are proposed to respond to comments following the review of the participation in Iceland in the Schengen Community work performed here in 2017, and are mainly involved in the induction and implementation of Iceland's deportation directives, such as the granting of voluntary exodus, the right effects of the evasives, decisions on the length of the return blocks and their breakdown, permission to conduct people from the country, and the necessary regulations to implement Iceland's commitments office as the most efficient way. 7th: The bill then suggests the final delay of treatment, whether or not to take a chemical application in this country, based on the period at which the administration level is completed, i.e. The final outcome is with the Commission of Foreign Affairs. The current vague wording of the current deadline has led to a period when the applicant leaves the country but is suggested to take into account the wording of a comparable law on the granting of a human life-saltation arrangement that is clearer in the law. eighth, in February 2020, the rules for foreigners were changed to shorten the government's maximal treatment period in the case of children. The bill suggests that this change will be legalized, allowing a child to be granted leave-authorized leave for humanitarian reasons if he has not come to a conclusion in his case at administrative level within 16 months instead of 18 as per current regulations. Nine are then changed to the implementation of the law on emancipation laws, which have been identified as requiring a clearer procedure and implementation. Thus, the recycling of the bill contributes to the adjustment of various provisions for the release of wastelands. These include: that the doctors may be in this country when they apply for emancipation for the first time, that a reimbursement by means of a reimbursement may be permitted for the first time, or at least two years, so that it may be up to two years, and that it may be permitted to provide a foreigner who has lost his job which requires the expertise of living for three months so that he can look for another job on the basis of his expertise. This is for improvement in the repercussion section. Then, in cooperation with Social Affairs, a tenth layer of the law on foreign employment rights is suggested, No. 97/2002, regarding the publishing of temporary jobs for special reasons, while the bill suggests that foreigners who have been granted a permit on the basis of humanitarian grounds or special contact with the country under the laws of foreigners will be excluded from a temporary employment permit in this country. The situation of these foreigners is thought to be such that there is no further requirement for their authority on employment management here. At the same time, this change will reduce the number of jobs at the labour oce, where such housing has been over the years about half of the temporary jobs given on the grounds of the law. V.E.G. President. I have now understood the main points of the bill, but it is estimated that since the implementation of the alien law, they have been changed several times and that this bill is an essential legal review of the law on the basis of the procedure and that it includes only a more significant legal adjustment than has been made, as well as a change in the law on employment rights to benefit the employment benefits of a local foreigner as well as land permit. To this end, I suggest that the bill be after this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u164	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. According to a U.S. Marshal's report on organized violations, which appeared just a year ago, the Icelandic takeover system has been systematically abused in order to practice black business or crime, such as manal and abuse. People have been enslaved to the darkness between bad terms. It is highly suspected that human halls of tourism and construction services have grown rapidly in recent years. According to the report, those seeking international protection in Iceland may suffer from social problems as a result of various forms of oppression and abuse. This is serious. Women are forced into prostitution, says here, and organized employment room is carried out in the black economy of the so-called, e.g. a variety of services. And the report continues that lack of surveillance is directly involved in increasing the range of black jobs and job market fractures against foreigners. Then, as shown in the report on opening in the fall of 2018, candidates for the international protection of black jobs in the country and in some cases, who are the victims of serious abuse. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Are the serious statements made in the state police report on this bill? Is this abuse being defended in the bill? The highest. So a minister will explain in what way this is done?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u165	A respectable president. Hv. A senator referred to a police report dealing with isolated cases and issues that have certainly come up where individuals have been applying in the security system I'm here talking about changes in. It is not specifically addressed to the bill or to the alien law, as it is being spoken of as police, labour markets, and so forth. All who are in a difficult situation, whether these people come and ask for asylum or others, have the right to get an answer quickly and safely. It's improved. It will improve the position of these persons to get an answer faster than now, whether the answer is positive or negative, because it is important to adapt within the community. It is important that we do not have to live in uncertainty anymore, not be involved in something that is difficult. A senator mentions. It also involves a great deal of humanity in building our system so that our priorities are set for those in real distress, coming from countries where they flee persecution and inhuman treatment, and that those in that position have a positive response and are sure to adjust to society sooner and now have a better option than is now, where the management board can be ill handled by the majority of cases, including. ... becauseofthekindoftheproblems today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u166	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'll take my mind to the highest level. A minister here says, we need to set priorities in these areas and try to speed up the situation so that those who really need this system will get a quick, good payment. But this is a state police director report, which simply says that the system we have created in these laws is systematically abused in order to practice black business and criminal activity, such as manalion and abuse. The law has to deal with this, chief. Ministers, and how disappointed it is to see that nothing is looked forward to it! I have to say, chief. President, that I am disappointed that this report has not been carefully reviewed and has been tried to find solutions. This is very serious. We have a system that is being seriously abused, and we must try to find solutions to it. It's got to be said right now, topv. Minister, this answer disappoints me. At the end, I'd like to ask if there was anything in the neighboring nations, Dana and the Norse, at the shape of this bill, that we've taken advantage of their experience in the seminary. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u167	A respectable president. Hv. I'm sorry, but certain aspects of the alien law are being addressed here, i.e. treatment and effectiveness of international protection, setting and establishing specific measures for a shorter treatment duration. It will improve the management of all cases, whether it is global protection or exonerated. Whatever it is. This bill does not specifically mention a discussion that highlights the changes I listed in my frontnote address. About the second question why? A candidate in the bill looks to various countries, both in regard to our international commitments being tried to fulfill it, but also in the way many countries deal with it. There is no exception to the northern countries. We actually have a system that is similar to the European world systems around us, though all of them have their own implementation, e.g. For protection, priorities, and so on. We're just trying to make it right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u168	A respectable president. First, I'd like to regret the priorities of the government in times like this. Once the material has been determined to be handled by a number of refugees because of the pandemic situation today and when we know that a refugee camp in Greece is in danger of being badly affected by this epidemic in the months to come, the highest will be expected. Minister of Justice and the Supreme Court. The government has begun to make it easier for the government to direct people to Greece again. So, that's the plan. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister: What evidence is there that the ability of the Foreign Institutes and Committees for Foreign Affairs to handle the material treatments of people who are certainly in a delicate position and who certainly cannot afford to be sent to Greece or Hungary, especially at these times? Why is the ultimate decision? Government to go this way? That's the first question. The second question is about consultation and how the government is in harmony with all of this, his Majesty here. It is stated in a paper with the bill that the legislation and initial assessment of influence were presented at the conference of the Ministry of Every Advisor and given an opportunity to comment. Did the Ministry of Presidency make any comments? This may have been submitted to members of all the administrations. Did any comments come from there, or do they just think it's nice to fuck with refugees like that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u169	A respectable president. Regarding the many priorities in these days because of the various issues that have come to the council or have been discussed, there were a number of cases ready for Covid, such as this being discussed and addressed to a committee and to the treatment of the council, and I'm sure that. Hv. A senator then enters the changes we've made because of Covid-19 regarding the hospices that are very strong and good changes and that are rarely seen in countries around us that have gone as far as our system is concerned because our system also has a set time limit where we do not expect people to be here for a long time. These changes will include 225 people in our system. When you look at lands where certain people are being given immediate protection, it has been temporary, not permanent, but just a condition. There's no one sent to a refugee camp in Greece, and I want to get a correct problem. Senators in whom we have not sent people on the basis of the 2010 Cysician Regulation to Greece and not to Hungary if they are to be divided. Then, when it comes to priorities, there are many questions. A senator turned to me, then the protection system is for people who don't have protection, and they have to set priorities so that we give protection to those who are inhumanly treated and who are fleeing the state of war, in a clear and quick manner, and so it is in the countries around us. There is no European country that has stopped reimbursement of persons with protection in another European country but there is always an assessment at 42rd. a stranger that cannot be sent back to an individual when he is at risk of inhuman or disrespectful treatment according to Article 3. The European Union Convention of Human Rights. But in my opinion, we should examine other ways to welcome people here who are protected in another state, e.g. with more extensive employment and so forth, because there are tremendous opportunities we have to watch. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would encourage and have done so by the Minister of Social Affairs, and I would press on to see that this will be considered and hope that it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u170	A respectable president. I asked about priorities because the government's Constitution had to be seriously cut. V.E.G. A minister had to make decisions as to what issues he would be allowed to live at that assembly and who would not, and she decided that making it easier for him to send back to Greece was something that would have to happen at this assembly. That's what I mean by priorities, and I think it's terrible right now. When the country's prime minister speaks of solidarity, the secretary of justice takes steps to simplify the evaporation of vulnerable groups to Greece, e.g. or Hungary. I asked specifically about how the Ministry of Presidency responded to these plans. Minister of Justice. I asked about how the members of the board responded to these plans at the highest level. Minister of Justice. Some comments from what? Generals? Any comments from the Ministry of Presidency?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u171	A respectable president. There are many changes involved in this bill, such as why. A senator can see if he has listened to my speech here and a lot of things that have long been waiting for a release of the council, such as a evasion order from the European Parliament and a change in Schengen and such. The question of prime minister: Yes, there were changes from the Ministry of Presidency as well as the Ministry of Economic Affairs in handling the matter before it came here. Then there were left greens on the left at a point of the bill, but there are a number of comments that have been made, such as the continuation of proper effects and other regulations in the previous bill. I absolutely object that with this bill, a minister is napping the city's trustees, end up making the bill so that those who are really in need for protection can have faster and better solutions so that they can have a better chance of adjusting to Icelandic society and for them the system is. We need to find another way, as I mentioned in the previous answer, for those who are protected in another state.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u172	A respectable president. I'm going to move on in places similar to what I'm going to do. A senator before me asking about the matter of protection and the change suggested that specific reasons no longer apply to this group of refugees. The minister says that this is so that people will be protected that they really belong to it, but people just don't agree with the minister that they don't apply to this group. I would especially like to mention the Red Cross that strongly opposes this change. It is a person that the government trusts to represent the inmates, the spokesman for the group to whom it is discussed. Here's a word of advice. Why aren't they listening to the Red Cross with that? The attitude of the Red Cross was very decisive. I'd also like to ask about the need for the case because this bill came forward at a time when it seemed that this protection case was pouring on us in large quantities. But it's been a little while, a year and a half since this bill began to be written, and there's been a reduction in the number of cases. I'd like to ask the secretary what the numbers are, how the development of a number of security systems has been in the last few months before everything went to a hard lock about Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u173	A respectable president. Regarding the course of evolution. A senator asks about the figures I have increased in the group where people have been protected elsewhere and that number has grown tremendously over the last few years, but they have also increased greatly, as I came into my speech, which are in real need for protection and are also increasing. To escape persecution in their country and to have received positive answers here and to protect. This is especially seen in figures for 2019, where there are over 500 of the international protection of that year. I reiterate regulations 42rd. The law, based on 3rd degree. The European Convention of Human Rights, we have a law that does not reimburse people on the basis of that law in case of inhuman or disrespectful treatment. That is not the case. Changes have since been made after consultation, including at the Red Cross of Iceland and the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, dropped some changes, and some of the principles in the bill adjusted for those comments and suggestions, including those and suggestions. from the Red Cross. Why does this bill come now? Because the number of people has become that way, and the time we are offering for payment is unacceptable. There are also some international commitments that we have committed to having long since introduced on the country, as I mentioned earlier on the deportation directive and the changes to Schengen. That's why the bill's passed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u174	A respectable president. Yes, there has been an increase in protection over the past few years, since it did not exist three years ago. However, in the last 2019 months, their numbers declined. Based on the figures published on the National Institutes of Iceland, the results of those cases classified as a protection case were about ten per month at the end of 2019. I drew it in a table I shall only leave in the keyhole for the Minister to look at in his second answer. The minister was now at a informal meeting of the Ministers of Justice in Europe last week, which included: Consider the long - term vision of refugees. We know this now that one of her predecessors went there and reported Iceland's doubts about increased responsibility for the treatment of refugees. I'd like to ask you if the added responsibility available to Iceland at the time of Covid is temporary apostasy from previous policy, or if we can expect that mutual responsibility will be shown in action permanently from now on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u175	A respectable president. It is permanent compared with the number of people we provide international protection in this country and can easily be seen in 2019 numbers when compared with the proportion of protection provided in countries around us and other such. We're walking, as I said before, quite far into the changes we're making because we're giving people international protection and taking care of materials that are here. There have been a number of protective cases, such as the coven. One senator, on average, has been about 20% of the cases in the system at any given time. There are many changes because these are individuals who have been protected, not just in Greece, but in another European country, and the system is for protection. In this way, we will better set priorities for those here who have fled inhuman and disrespectful conditions from other sources. war - torn lands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u176	Mr. President. It's like the highest. A minister in his talk was referring to a matter that could be said to address a number of matters in the case of foreigners, and it has a number of things that I would like to do, to make up the family harmony of capitalists, but that law includes more things, and that is one of the things I think to do. A top-of-the-art Board of Education... that's gonna get the case done, you're gonna have to dive in real tight. Then I think a set of provisions to reinvest your living secrets is positive, and I also think that the role of the Children's Protection Agency for the granting of international protection in the affairs of children without escorts is good, so in the bill there are some things that I think are in our alien system. Then there's here, like the highest. A minister came in, a number of things that involve our international commitments. It's important that we dive into our commitments, of course, but it does matter how they are carried out. That's where I think I'm a job for what it's like. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. However, there are some things on the bill that we on the council of the green left have comments, and as shown in the Supreme Court. Then we took note of specific points on the bill, especially the way it is handled by people who have received international protection. We are opposed to the introduction of a system that leads to increased self - efficiency in that subject, and our comments were expressed at the highest level. Minister when we discussed the matter in our council. Of course, the situation of refugees in many countries is terrible, and although countries have given people protection, there is not always much to follow them but that people will not be sent back to war - torn countries. There's been comments on this. This is one of the VG classes that we focus on changing. I also feel very strongly and would like to stress that prior to the discussion in the Committee will lead to the resolution of the cooperation that began a few weeks ago for Covid between the three Ministers, i.e. Prime Minister, Minister of Justice and Department of Social Affairs, for the children's affairs of international protection. We have seen such cases that have been found in the media, and a group was set up to dive into them and to consider them in the context of this bill, since the situation of these children is, of course, speaking directly into it. Mr. President. This bill takes on many things that concern foreigners, and some are being changed for the better, others are being changed. That's why I think it's very important that a global and educational committee of people went deep into the bill and called out to them parties like the Red Cross as just a service, holding a lot of the people that the bill takes in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u177	A respectable president. I'm trying to figure out what it's all about. Senators of the left green put on this bill, I'm trying to figure out what it means. In this government, various elements of government have now rested just because certain groups do not let them out of their ranks because they are so disgruntled with them. The Party has in its campaign policy that Iceland has to shoulder responsibility and that the people in need of help will also be found necessary by the President's permission, both by accepting more refugees and by supporting people in the capacity to live with dignity in other parts of the world and by the group, by allowing the U.S. president, to take responsibility for their privileges in the international community, and by doing what is within the power to share their wealth with those most necessary. We must not look away. These words are good, as it were. This bill gives reasons for departing from the project that applications of individuals already protected internationally are taken for material treatment on the basis of exceptions for special relationships and special reasons. This is an utter prohibition against taking these matters for the material treatment that we are discussing here. This means that if a 17 - year - old teenage girl comes from Greece with a baby or is pregnant, the Foreign Institute and Foreign Committees are simply forbidden to take her case for material reasons, because she has received a asylum in Greece, to bring her back there, completely away from her circumstances. So I'm going to ask in advance, "What do they mean?" They mean that to hell. Councilmen don't intend to vote for this arrangement, or what exactly does it mean that a council of the left green has made a matter of warning? Now this case came in, we're talking about it. Counts 'em out. A senator will have some assurance that this law will not be agreed with with him when it is scheduled?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u178	Mr. President. As I came to my speech, this is about many things in the affairs of foreigners, and some of them I believe are improving, including what I went through and turned to the family unity of kótturists. When it comes to reinvestment, a change is being made so that certain groups can facilitate their employment permits. I think this is a good thing. However, I also said in my talk that at the council of the left greens, we had been on notice, and they also lived. to promote self - efficiency in the affairs of people who have been protected internationally in other countries. That's my position, and I think I can speak for most of the members of the council of the left green when it comes to this matter. Some of these things we think are good; other things we don't agree with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u179	A respectable president. I'm still trying to figure out what these models mean. Well, at least not at all. A senator is pleased with various aspects of the bill, as it were, that we are not just talking about some self - destructive behavior. We are talking about how it is impossible for foreigners to take into account the circumstances of refugees who have been protected in a foreign land, whether Hungary, Greece, or anywhere else. It's on the bill. This is to accept as the bill is available right now. What does this model mean? That means "woe." Senators won't vote for this law? Will they fight against it in any way? Do they have any assurance that this law will not be fulfilled? What is the nature of these warnings? What does it really mean when it comes to accepting the bill? This is presented as a administrative bill, indicating that there is more behind it. There's more behind 1 1 1. in the bill, which takes absolutely into account the circumstances of sick children or pregnant women or what when people have been protected in countries like Hungary or Greece? Does the left count green with confidence that they will be able to prevent this from happening, or what exactly is this one?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u180	Mr. President. I don't know how to answer a question. In other words, a senator is different from the one I've been through. I've declared that there are regulations in the bill that we believe are for our benefit and therefore support. However, there are other factors that we do not consider beneficial and that need to be taken a good look at the committee, and that is, of course, what is being done. This means that we are going to stress the importance of taking steps to get them changed. That does not mean, however, that we oppose everything in the bill because there are a number of things we think very good here. However, how these matters are handled matters matters matters. As I also spoke in my talk, there is a group of people who were assigned specifically to study the issues of children who are among candidates for international protection. This group has not given up their work and is relevant to the context in which foreigners are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u181	A respectable president. First, I want to declare again my deep disappointments with the priorities of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, at these unprecedented times, as they are all too often called. To choose now to simplify the authorities to send people to Greece and send people to Hungary is unbelievable. It is amazing that a class that teaches itself to be humanitarian and peaceful prefers to prioritize this matter over its heads and incredible exactly now. I'd like to start by reading a few comments from Iceland's Red Cross account because it's very extensive, thorough, and very useful when reviewing this matter. I'd like to start talking about the Dublin misunderstanding or the big Dublin lie that I've been paying very good attention to all the time I've been tracking Iceland's tragic treatment of the rights of refugees, which has been for quite some time. The foreign authorities have constantly claimed that the Order of Dublin somehow led them out of the country, that they have the obligation to dismiss as much as possible. We should best dismiss people from other lands and accept the least responsibility. I've heard this approach from the head of the Foreign Board, but I've heard it from the highest. Not surprisingly, the independence party's jurists offer such a bill. It is surprising, though, that the left movement of the green supply really did not keep up and prevent this from happening. I just don't get it. It is stated in a bill that all the Ministry directors have been informed of this, so it has rather been a long way in advance to prevent this mess, but it has not been used. This hasn't been the priority. That's for sure. It has not been given much importance to prevent foreigners from sending families with children, children, or anyone who is sick, to go to Greece, where the situation of refugees is disastrous. It makes it easier. But that Dublin mistake, I'm getting a little ahead of myself. It is very clearly shown in the bill that the changes are intended, with the permission of the President, to strengthen the support of the Order of Dublin, and to make sure that the changes are applied whenever possible. The view is that in order to work according to the Order of Dublin, it should be applied whenever possible. This refers to disfellowshipping. This is not to be used by other regulations, such as the one authorized to do so. to take the subject's own initiative, even if the person has applied somewhere else. The Red Cross does well with what it calls a misunderstanding. I've now felt so determined to keep this up forever that I'm not sure that I would really be the kind of person to call it a misunderstanding. The Red Cross, by permission of the president, says: ▪ The aim of the change as clearly indicated in comments to the bill appears to be based on misunderstandings regarding the purpose of the Dublin Union and the application of the Regulation. Thus, it appears that the objective of the change to support the Dublin Protocol and that it should be used whenever possible in a population where possible that candidates should be sent to another member of the Member State when there is any possible option under the Regulation. First, it is proper to note that there is no agreement on the use of the Dublin Protocol among the Member States on how this cooperation should be conducted. Thus, countries on the edge, such as Italy and Greece, have been calling for a long time to put countries north of the continent's increased responsibilities and that the candidates for international protection will be placed in other countries, allowing their responsibilities to become more widely distributed. The original purpose of the Dublin Community work was that Member States share the responsibility of increasing influx of refugees into Europe, not to provide governments with tools to throw it over other countries whenever possible, as the prime authors seem to pass away. The European Union must all take responsibility for the treatment of applications for international protection, since the Regulation is based on such collective responsibility, as per a repeated reference to the Regulation in the word "consistencies." To expect countries that are due to their geographic status to be the first stop of refugees to shoulder all responsibilities cannot be considered loyal to the cooperation and solidarity of the Member States in some of their terms. Yet, there is a very clear goal in this bill to stop what the bill authors call the secondal momentment, a concept in refugee rights. However, the majority of refugees who arrived here in the country have been involved in some sort of secondary event, i.e. They have been present in some other member of the Schgeren, although geographicly Iceland is just so that it is almost impossible to get to this country without killing foots somewhere in Europe, probably in Greece, probably in Italy, most likely in countries where refugees are at an extreme rate and where countries can take care of all these people is remembered. Then Iceland is now planning to make it easy for us to push out all those who have been around somewhere else in Europe. This is the responsibility the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is going to practice, the one who spoke on her address on Sunday about the importance of international cooperation. I just don't understand how it can be done by a group that stresss the acceptance of more refugees and who, in their course, said before the last election in 2017, on permission of Presidents: It is necessary that Iceland should be responsible for its privileges in the international community and do what it can to share its wealth with those most needed. We must not look away. It seems to me that a panel of green green greens looked away when it came to this bill. We'll just look away. This gets to float through. It also escapes the cut-off knife when it comes to intersecting matters of Covid, no problem. We do some warning, but we cannot explain what the warnings mean to the extreme rights that refugees are looking forward to today as the bill of law. First, I want it to be clear that this bill is being suggested to eliminate the clearance of the Foreign Institute and Foreign Affairs to address people for the treatment of those who have been granted a permit as refugees in another European country. It is being removed all the sources of these institutions to take them for physical treatment, completely out of their individual situation. These are all matters, using proben, a respectable president, who has understandably been angry at seeing in the media recently. These are the refugee families that were to be sent back to Greece and prevented from due to the public's legitimate anger at it. Now it's all about living up to the point that there will be no trouble, and there is no time for them to seek even the compassion of the people of the land to stay here instead of being sent to Greece. No, there is not even a chance for them to be treated. The motivation for this is made clear in a paper with the bill and why this is being done. By permission of the President: Then there is reason to abandon applications that are taken for material treatment based on the exception of 2 mg. 36 st. for special relationships and special considerations. In fact, there's no explanation for the excuse for this, but if I were to guess, it would be to speed it up and stop the public from feeling sorry for refugees who send to Greece or Hungary. That's the first point. Second, it is worth referring, of course, to the fact that this utter prohibition against taking on material treatment applies to all. This is true of children, old age, sick people, pregnant women - all of them. There is a warrant for taking their case for the treatment of specific reasons. This is contrary to what the public has been calling desperate after the past few years. That's why I don't understand what this government is all about. It may be clear that there is nothing to say about refusing to let these people live. Its applications should not even be considered. I also find reasons to adopt other comments of the Red Cross regarding this spontaneous complaint and to shorten the whole treatment period to a complaint on a demonstration. The Red Cross is very specific about why it is very bad for refugees'rights, and in fact, it can be found here, in fact, in a very strict and detailed criticism of the hands of the Foreign Institute of England as well as its role on the Red Cross, something I have not previously seen as clearly about the Red Cross. This may mean that they too have lost the patience of this endless bed of government to treat refugees most effectively. A review of the Red Cross shows that according to Article 7. the bill will be the candidate in a situation that falls below 36. a foreigner is not allowed to take advantage of the current 15 - day think-time decision to make a complaint, but in action candidates have often taken advantage of the requested delay. By permission of the President: However, there are a number of reasons. First of all, the decisions made by the National Institutes of Iceland are published and presented to the applicants in Icelandic and not translated into other languages [...]◯ - however, we are obliged to do so under the United Nations refugee Convention, but whatever. In the opinion of the Red Cross, there is a delay to consider the need to give candidates an opportunity to examine the basis of the decision and to make informed decision on the next steps. Here comes an important point: Sadly, however, according to the 1 mgr, the Red Cross has been neglected by the Foreign Institute of Iceland, as a result of considering the study of the Red Cross. 25. foreigners and decisions on matters fired on the basis of 1. 36 st. a foreigner without the applicant's diagnosis of their position and possible specific requirements as defined in 1 mg. 25. foreign shapes. The project shows that the Agency neglects its obligation to take such initiative, even when there is evidence in the case that for an individual in a more sensitive position, the Foreign Institute has not agreed at once to allow candidates to acquire such information themselves. In addition, applicants are repeatedly allowed to be aware of the lack of data that shed light on the individual's mental and physical health. The consequences of this neglect of the Agency are serious, since the Foreign Office generally does not assess candidates in a particularly delicate position in the sense of 6th paragraphs 3. foreigners, and this despite the lack of physical or mental status investigated in accordance with 1 mg. 25. This is also true in cases involving individuals who fall directly into some of the aspects listed in Article 6. foreigners, such as victims of manaliva, people with mental disorders, and individuals who have suffered from torture, genital readings, rape, or other serious mental, physical, or sexual abuse, have evidence of its consequences. As a result of this procedure, in some cases candidates have had to make use of the current time for data collection. - Because they don't belong to the Foreign Institute. As an example, you may have an appointment with a specialist in the coming days or weeks to come, but the National Institute of Iceland does not agree to wait for data to be collected in accordance with 1 mg. 25. a foreigner before making a decision. Thus, candidates have had to make use of the deadline to compensate for the neglect of the government on their research duties so that all necessary data can be available at a level of inquisitive care. Here, too, the decision made by the NTSB members should be made to be a final decision in the case of the individual, in which the possibility of international protection has been severely limited to the court case. So this is a longer journey we're talking about. Of course, refugees'rights have been severely restricted in the history of that government and the previous one. That's a very clear course for the Independence Party. I don't think it's a good idea to see what direction it's suddenly turned into from the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u182	A respectable president. Hv. A senator quoted an all - time application from the Red Cross of Iceland, where all the references in this bill were as though it were 2019. This is not the same bill, and there have been changes in the bill since then, including have regulations that she referred to at the beginning of her speech on the issues of Dublin changed. I repeat, because it gets very vaguely past a beard. A senator, that no one is sent to Greece on the basis of the Order of Dublin. We are exactly accepting candidates for international protection from these sites and providing protection for people from those countries in the north. We do so by not reimburseing people to Greece on the grounds of the Order of Dublin. The European Union's cooperation is that one state is responsible for an application in one state and is part of the international cooperation we are in. However, the European Union debate has been eager to find a common conclusion as to how this system should look to the future, changing it to become more widely distributed. Also, many and more people come here and make Iceland their first stop with applications. These applications have increased substantially and undergo treatment. We'll see if we're looking at the 2019 numbers. Then it says why. A senator that this leads to remarkable changes in the position of the trustees. That is wrong, for most who have been protected in other countries have negative results, and the system is designed, not for those who already have protection, but for those who need protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u183	A respectable president. I have to correct the highest. Minister: I didn't talk about the refugees, I talked about refugees, and I'm quite different. We're talking about people who have been accepted as fugitives, and they're certainly making significant changes in the legal status of those people here. I quote the bill again, by permission of the President: Then there is reason to abandon applications that are taken for material treatment based on the exception of 2 mg. 36 st. for special relationships and special considerations. This has a tremendous impact on the rights of these people. And that's where I'm talking about refugees, not refugees, the highest. Minister of Justice. I wish to get an explanation for exactly what I was doing wrong in my case because I discussed the changes of 36 g. in relation to the statement of the Red Cross, which I can't see that made any changes. I talked about the execution of 15 days of consider - time refugees. I discussed the fundamental misgivings of the world's highest level. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice seems to have with regard to the objective of the Order of Dublin. I can't see that the misunderstanding was corrected or the vision that the Dublin Protocol somehow obligates us to throw as many people out of the country as possible in the most efficient way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u184	President. What wasn't included in the reading on the Dublin case at the time. A senator was what she was talking about in the bill that included the changes in Dublin's issues that she retraced here. However, for the sake of spontaneous charges, it is assumed that all will be reviewed in their own language. Precautions are still under way, i.e. if you have excuseable reasons or important reasons why it cannot be returned within 14 days. But this will not change the procedure in any way unless it shortens the time of treatment and increases effectiveness, but will not impair the right protection of the individual. It is not yet a shortcut, which would have been the other way that could have been taken to try to shorten the overall course of treatment. However, extra requirements would have been made for candidates, where time to think would have been reduced. It was not a matter of shortening the lawsuit; it was decided to make an automatic complaint. It does, however, provide increased demands for governments where much more is reported. It also prevents them from becoming accused, as has happened in the system. Then I reiterate that there must be a distinction between the number of cases presented here and becoming the first application cases, and the companies receiving these treatments. Then there are the protective terms, as we have begun to call them, people who are being protected in another state. I strongly believe that we should examine other ways to welcome people here who are protected in another state, including the U.S.A. I'm busy working for jobs. There is no country around us in Europe that has stopped reimbursement of individuals with protection in another European country and that has largely gotten negative results in the system. That's what I've been referring to at 42. based on Article 3. The European Convention of Human Rights in the Law today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-05-97.u185	A respectable president. I remember that the German government set up and brought 500 refugees to Greece because of the situation today, so the level of cohesion varies. The fact that people have received international protection in places like Hungary, Greece, and other parts of the continent does not mean that they enjoy human rights until just like others, it has been well established. But the highest. Minister boasts that it is not sending people back to Greece who have opened their application to the Greek authorities, but it is all right for people who have come to the country because it is the effect that this bill will have, people who have even severely ill children themselves, to be brought back to Greece because we are allowed to do so. That is what this change involves. That's what I'm criticizing here. That's the basic issue between me and the highest. Minister; I don't think that's okay, just not near. I think it's very inhumane, and I find it a little too small to rip up the civil rights of refugees. But the highest. Minister would like to make sure that they don't repeat that people are being protected that they are being resuscitated. She wants to make sure that refugees from Greece don't get the sympathy here that governments are forced to bring some piece of shit to let them stay here. There is no doubt now to be taken away. These children can't be here, and no one can see if they can be here. It's just definitely stopping it. This is how the public felt that sending refugees back to Greece, although protected, it was completely unacceptable. That's where we're at the highest. Apparently a minister disagrees.
