ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u1	Mr. President. I was assigned to investigate it and to search for a city's master plan. I've been, between my talks, looking for her, and I've been here on the city page, burger. It says: The city line is the most direct route to the future. There's news. And what's the city line? The city line is a speed - moving vehicle that drives special space, with priority at the corners of the road. It's a little interesting. All the other traffics, so to speak, are to wait while these wagons, fast cars, cross the road. It will not increase traffic flow while passing through it. The frequency of travel is high, they come frequently. Stops will be covered, attractive, and comfortable with good access directly into the wagons. It's beautiful. That looks beautiful. Why a city line? I'm gonna slide over it. I'm looking for the management plan. The special space of the city line, the construction of a city line and a bus. How long will it take to wait? Transport and evolution. Nothing there on the front page of a management plan. Then there's something called Project Room. I'm on it. There's no business there. There's a picture of the people taking care of this, a very beautiful, well-behaved people and a management group of owners, and a great, large chart on how this is to be won. Lots of names, pieces, and the task management all over the place. I'm gonna have some questions here. Here it is: published material. Mr. President. This must be: A plan of assessment, a planning case in the capital area - I read here from the site of the city's website - the regional structure of the capital area, the structure of transportation to the capital area, the state's transport contract. I've been over it, so there's nothing there. COWI's report on a city line. There's nothing there. I have to admit, though, that I haven't even gone into every corner of the website, but there's no master plan there. In a hurry, if I were a citizen who wanted to get me information about the city line, I can't find a schedule on a city-wide website. In fact, we've been asking this for a long time so that I don't expect the search to be easy, but I will, of course, continue looking. I speak here for my part of the environment and transportation committee, for me and what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, who gave a special party. One of the main reasons we didn't share in the majority opinion, there were some, was that we couldn't take the money that the government intends to take on this project on the grounds that the project was poorly defined, unexploited, and that it needed a lot of things, a project and a management plan. I was just going to read out my opinion on the key reasons for the city line. ▪ It has not been demonstrated that the target to be targeted in a more economic fashion cannot be met. This is the big deal, Mr. President. Can't you do something cheap? Is it not possible to make more mishappens, expand tracks, and increase lanes so that modern - day buses can make their way smooth? It follows, it must be cheaper, and then there will be another traffic favour. They'll get on their way too, those who're in the family car. This is a basic requirement for our inability to accept the majority opinion as well as some other factors, including ours. the implementation of roads that we were not at peace with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u2	Mr. President. I've been studying only the interesting analysis of Frosti Sigurjónsson, a former general, through a city line. He explains in his article - and clearly that he has put considerable effort on this assignment - by permission of the president: It is wrong to have a city line of ◯ larger transport capacity. There is very little demand for the type of transport that the city line offers. There is little good in the half - dozen city linecars around the network. However, the type of transport today that is highly sought will be greatly affected by the use of road vehicles now dedicated to the city line. Thus, the city line will increase traffic congestion during periods of stress but will not reduce it. This is very interesting, and others have noted it. Thus, a professor of planning at the University of Iceland, Trausti Valsson, has pointed to this and those who are also familiar with traffic issues. It is clear, then, that the expense of the city line is to be cut off by a driver for the private vehicle, the family car. Of course, something that we in the Central Party are not interested in because it is being directed in what way the public should travel in the city. People are being pushed into this public transportation system, even though the city authorities said it was a matter of choice. It's just perfectly obvious, Mr. President, that it won't stand. A Danish advisory firm named COWI has taken a look at this project and said about the city line that it is confirmed that the city's demand for a city line will not be enough. Therefore, specific measures are needed to promote demand. Then you ask: Why are both the experts at home and the known advisory companies from abroad on the same line on the lack of demand for this city line? We can see today's demand for a bus, i.e. to take the bus, is far too small. She's only about that. 4% and may have been tried to raise that number, but at high cost, they have been very difficult. And then we have these expert advice companies who say the demand is not enough. Nevertheless, this work is continued despite what is seen as a problem. The problem is that there are far too few people who use this means of transportation, this system. And that means, naturally, loss from business goes on forever. And who's going to pay for it? Won't it be that way in the end that the state's budget has to come into the task of paying it? In view of the situation in the local community, the position of Reykjavíkurburg, e.g., is limited by rural society. Because of the virus epidemic. It has to be said at the moment, Mr President, that it is very special for men to make this journey knowing that after obtaining counselling companies, expert opinion, etc. that there is not enough demand for the project. The mission is way too expensive. When there is no schedule, you ask: " Why are we doing this? What is the underlying view? Is this some kind of special assignment from the city of Reykjavík? What's behind it? Mr. President. I see that my time has passed, it will come into play further in the next speech if the president would kindly put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u3	V.E.G. President. It is not easy to draw innovations like a public transport device of this type into an older urban organization and an older city structure. I've sometimes taken it into account, I did it at the beginning of this discussion, and it's okay to reiterate that in my time, probably around 1910/1930, Manhattan, New York, was mainly built. At that time, the main vehicles were horse - drawn carriages, and they had a path in both directions in all the open - aired places there. But then the traffic went up, and it couldn't be kept this way anymore. There, there was a very simple way. Most of the streets were turned into single - road streets, i.e. There's one up there and another down there. This can be done in Reykjavík and at that point I have pointed out, and this is the cheapest and fastest way to solve this East-West traffic in Reykjavík. I'm going to tell you once again: To do the Grand Way of the Ringway to a one-way drive east from Náll Street to the Lyla River. Mr. President. There'd never be less than four and up into six lanes, all in the same direction. That would mean that a bus could easily take one or two lines, at least one, as he does today, but it could be done much more systematically in this contrast. Similarly, the Seaway could be turned into a one - way drive to the west from the same location, i.e. From A Twelfth and Downtown. The first motion for the first phase of the city line is to go down Hoffi's Street, as I've said before, and Laviour Avenue and Scotland Way. Since this is possible, Mr. President, there is nothing we can do to make Sea Lane drive down to the west. There's nothing to do with it. This would mean that those who come in the morning from Breiðholti, Yeartown, and Grafarvogi would then have four up to six lanes to go west in the morning, and four to six lanes to go east in the evening, and there, in the course of the natural traffic, as the president knows, up the Aarhus River Brecks in Aarg, and up the left up to Grafarvog, straight up the top of the Grafarholt. This, Mr. President, would be the easiest way to fix this traffic bump in Reykjavík. What may be fascinating about this idea is that you can experiment with it for ten or 12 months, six months hence, and that would not cost very much. There are a number of conditions to be turned, and of course, as is the first advice of all specialists, and the mayor has not done much with it, to establish a real lighting control in Reykjavík. That alone would increase the performance of the road system in Reykjavík by 15%, about that. You may have noticed the other day, when the Covid virus was at its height, and there was little concern, that it would reduce traffic to Reykjavík by 15%. It was a whole different life to drive around this town, as the president knows, and then you say, "If you can get the same results as when you drive traffic by controlling lights better, why don't you do that? ' A simple route, too, would not cost much, and would come far. I see, Mr. President, unfortunately, I'm still in such a situation that I'm just about to start discussing instead of what I was going to go over here, but then my time is up. I'm waiting for the highest. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u4	Mr. President. I had asked for the word to discuss only the Sunway, but I completely forgot that I was going to complete the project that would take place along with this city line of work. As I've traced, the city line is a kind of ransom so that the government can put money in other transport improvements in the capital area after a construction stop for a decade. I already mentioned the traffic control, i.e. The traffic light system, and it explains that it would not work if the city line that has the priority on all traffic lights is at the same time, thus confusing the whole system, and preventing the so - called clever system of traffic lights. Then there's Sea Road Pass. I pointed out that even he is connected - what? Yes, the first stage of the city. And the Grand Prix is a major factor in linking Lands Hospital to the city line. I had mentioned the Eaglenes Way. Then there's only a city line, HamrabourLind is one of her steps. I think I was there in the list, Mr. President. This is a very interesting example, for even in this key road - to - transport process in Reykjavík, as part of the transport Convention, there seems to be some misunderstandings at the highest level. Secretary of transportation. The city has no plans to engage in a misdirectioned mold in the way the State had envisioned. V.E.G. In fact, the minister of finance claims that he feels that there is going to be a false mold. But the question is, has this been explained to the city? Then there's the Grand Canyon, and the deck, in this case, from the Snorra Way of Round Road, the Smokenes Way, the Elfhole. It's in Hafnarfjördur. Thus, rural areas around Reykjavík receive one task each against falling into the urban adventure. Hafnarfjörður, Garða, in a box. It's the mole life. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen talked about. Finally, the city line on Köldur and Bolikagland. Again, it's a city line. This key work of the transport Convention is either an obvious process that should have been undergone a long time ago or that is connected to a city line in one way or another. There is another reminder, then, to whom all of this is being done and who is in charge, as was so clearly shown in the letter that I used to shave earlier, which the city sent the highest. A minister of transportation explained how the minister should change the law so that the city could collect more taxes and expenses. But there are much better ways, Mr. President, and one of the most important is a solution that has been missing for decades. The Gestur Ólafsson of the planning specialist pointed out that this way should have been accomplished 40 years ago. It is the waterway, Mr. President, who was supposed to be the subject of my speech, I would not have forgotten to review these points from the transport contract. It was good to get there before I started discussing the Sunwater Road, because it puts first things first in an excellent context. The breakdown will then take place in the next talk. I pray to the highest degree. President putting me on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u5	V.E.G. President. I've come to chapter 4 on the objective of the environmental sustainable public transport of the stratosphere - A global policy of public transportation between transport and local government facilities published in October 2019. There are two points that may matter. To achieve that goal, specific emphasis was put forward. First, to help transport in the public transport system to be as eco-friendly as possible and to explore the potential for the use of ecological, domestic energy. Second, the use of eco-friendly energy sources in public transport should be added and support the introduction of new environmental technologies. Next, the effect on Icelandic society is the main item of the section. In the next chapter, we will discuss 5 objectives of positive development, and this may be most important in the context of the parts. It says that public transport between rural areas is a key factor in improving the quality of living and increasing everyone's bioavailability, linking up to work and school application areas, and third, they are also important for improving access to central services found in the capital area. I always stop there, at this good pill on positive development. According to the table, the number of passengers with an international flight of 370,000 in 2018 was 440,000 passengers. The number of passengers carrying squares was 2018 450,000, the preferred criteria for 2024 is 520,000 passengers. The number of passengers with public cars driven by direct public government grants is 400,000 in 2018, the ideal position for 2024 is 4,800,000 passengers. The main emphasis on reaching the above goals is first that a whole system of guides will be reviewed by consistent standards of service, that such factors as population density and use, and that certainly need to be looked to at at regional needs. Second, a search must be made to ensure that the quality of the operating system is used by people and locals to achieve so - called synergies and partnerships with other services, such as school, workplace, and public transportation within the rural community. Third, it will be determined how public transportation can strengthen the work and schools, with the objective of increasing the number of people using public transport and fourth, the advantage of key roads in the public transport system being part of the network of transportation. Of course, sharing in terms of acceptable living conditions is ensuring good access to public service. [[The president calls.]] - I'd like a president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to mention a few words from a talk. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen, who wrapped in so much of what has been criticized about the city line or plans for it. Hv. A senator naturally speaks out of his 1st position. South-Smokers. There are aspects of her affairs that are of great importance and, especially, of the criticism we have already seen about the matter. With the permission of the president, I will read this chapter: It is available in this covenant, which is made up of the European Convention, the European Convention, the European Convention, and the European Convention on the European Parliament. It is the arrangement to double the share of public transport from 4% to 8%. This is compared to 2011, which was more than 4%. But it is still today 4%, the share of public transportation in the capital area, or Iceland, is 4%, or the public transport involved. There's hope that she'll be up to 8%. And although we get public transportation up to 8%, it is unlikely to expect to distribute 50 billion tax dollars to public transport when there is no greater involvement in public transport. I draw attention to the fact that even if it became possible to double the use of public transportation from today's world, the senator would feel that way. And it goes on with what. Senator, with permission from the President: ▪ I'm sure that a few years ago when city officials were studying these matters, during the days of these ideas, they went to experts in Germany, I think in Freiburg, where a famous city line is, where men introduced these ideas and were looking for advice, they were asked: How many people are using public transportation? That was 2%1/23% at the time. The message to the Icelanders grew, and they were trying not to reflect on such things as city lines, no matter how it was implemented, do not try to reflect on such things until public transportation has been reached in general into 40%. Everything else is a dream, it's a complete lack of reality. This is what we need to smoke on, that the state has made a contract with the city of Reykjavík for continued construction stop in Reykjavík, with the reduced quality of life of Smoking, with the exception of road failures. These are quite large words, important words, which normally embezzlement the opium that uses this capital line or city line, or what this is supposed to be called, is meant to be. The warning does not come only within the country, it also comes from abroad, based on the senator's history of Congress documents. It is true that projects in the neighboring communities are being made to be rushed, but plans were made for these projects and were actually approved for their efforts to speed them up. There's some little deception in this at least. However, the risks of the city line or its operation appear to remain in the community and the state, according to the opinion of the members of the majority of the section. It says that the cost change is not realized and that the law is clear, so that it is clear when it comes to changing the state and rural unions on urban transport. However, the intention of getting public transportation up with the method used in the capital area, i.e. to squeeze enough into the private car so that people don't want to use it and instead of public transportation are obviously completely crazy because at the same time the number of people who use their private car is growing very fast. This can't even keep up with it, this use. It's a total export to the private car, and although it's the obvious objective of much of the city, it's something that's not going to happen. Sad to say, the government groups intend to participate in that mission, and they seem to agree, except at the same time. paritaprevir Andersen, this is the best way, to spend money in the city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u7	Mr. President. In this talk, I intend to review just a few factors that involved how matters developed in a historical way that the State found itself in the position of being about ready to release a construction stop in the capital area by subsidizing a ransom. This means that the city will launch projects on the founding system, crackling holes, potential mismasks, and flow - building operations. Such actions had been delayed for years, even making a contract that has been discussed frequently during the discussion with the so - called construction stop. For almost ten years there was an agreement that there would be no major success in the capital area against a billion each year's efforts by bus management. In this context, I would like to mention the example set in this regard. It has regularly occurred in rural relations with the Vegas that the rural communities have made a different route than the road made by road. The road has kept it stressful, always as far as I know, to be more expensive than the one the Roadmaker offers, on the basis of road law, to require that the country society carry the additional cost. In real life, of course, this ends with rural society agreeing on the line that the Road Types consider best from financial scales, from traffic safety, and from spills. This has continued for decades and decades. Now, in two cases, we are in the position that in the relations of Reykjavík and Vega, there is some awesome power. Reykjavíkurburg has been used in a way that the government, the transport authorities, seems to have no solutions to the success of reasonable matters. This is true in terms of correction of the Dizziness Ways, which has been mixed by all available means, set in place where the most efficient road connection was estimated and more. All of this is at the same well. The project is to be stopped by any means necessary. The other issue that the government finally accepts, apparently, - but the issue here in the conference - is paying a kind of ransom for getting out of the construction stop that has caused the great traffic charms that are making the people of the capital and visitors absolutely crazy on chapters, natural, because they are thus incorruptionable. They are far larger than traffic vessels give reason to plan for the number of cars, since above, light control and other action appear to be used, the difficulties of the streets, and so forth, to make things as bad as possible. In this context, I would especially like to point out that we at the Council didn't get into that position, and did not get state funds to that position, that rurals can take important transport issues such as the building of the capital platform into hostage, so that the road, transportation, or transport minister may find themselves forced to take on projects that would never have been approved. I allow me to claim that 50 billion projects on the basis of city lines had never reached the point now unless governments considered this the only way to get out of the hostage that the founding system had been held in terms of terms. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u8	V.E.G. President. This brief tour of the transport program has produced many city lines. Much of its financing depends on the government, for most people realize that finding money in Reykjavík is like going to a goat's house to search for wool. But since I gave a name to a goat, it is worth noting that, according to James, the thunder god Þór traveled on a wagon taken from two goats, the Tooth Risni, and the Tanngrisni of Tanngnjóstur. In their travels, Þór often had his goats for dinner, then their bones gathered after meals, and he dedicated them to life with his hammer. He rode through the sky and followed him with thunder and lightning. Of course, driving goat cars is unrealistic. Not only is it a ridiculous idea but it would become all too expensive and demeanable. But that's the city line, too. Both, however, are effective, but they can be divided. However, the cost of sacrifice is enormous, our politicians. You know, treating the public well is for us politicians. It is our duty to treat public funds well. The city line's over. It will cost our descendants a great deal and become a burden on taxpayers, especially in the capital area. No one knows how much time it takes to create a city line. However, it is certain that the existence of those living near construction sites will suck. Likely, parts of the city will close or become difficult to cover. How's it going to get to The Land Hospital on Ring Road? You see, that's a good question. There are ideas of stocking a major track. Such a project must be dug through all kinds of layers there. No one knows what that law is, but it probably contains a lot of that type, as it says in Latin, or in rats. I'm sure the class that works as an exterminator will have enough work to do. Too bad, the people of the Pangs will have to prepare for the attacks of rodents. V.E.G. President. We don't have time for things. It is the General Assembly that takes responsibility for this project, not the mayor of Reykjavík, even if it has come from him. It does not work that the Council obeys and performs the campaign of the Union in Reykjavík without murmuring. Everyone realizes that land near public transportation is expensive, but it is essential for the city line to sell expensive weights near it. As a result, housing prices will increase even more. Our children will have to accept small apartments at exorbitant prices. Our interests are simply too great. Well, let's just think about what we're doing. Let's just drop this crap. I'd like to say, as more senators from my ranks have said, and may repeat it: Let's knock this city's idea off the table as it has been submitted here and review it. Everyone agrees that good - quality transportation has to be done in the capital area. No one disagrees with that. But the city line, as it is ordered, is not available. V.E.G. President. I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u9	Mr. President. It should be a matter of course, and it should just sort of fall away from the ideas of a city line when none of the relevant parties, either the state funds or the local communities involved, have financial opportunity to attack the project. There are different conditions in the economy. The state funds situation has deteriorated significantly. It is natural to make the shoes so unoccupied that the government fund puts 50 billion on this particular project when so many other urgent and urgent projects are faced and carried out. Based on the comments of the Union's member countries and the city of Reykjavík, rural society is in a very poor financial state. This is to form a review in the matter of Congress, a pack of actions, and a bill for financial support. A section on the effect of the Covid-19 Depression on rural society, as said. It describes that rural society will suffer a huge drop in income and a huge increase in expenses due to the current economic crisis. Says, by permission of the President: ▪ Civil society in the capital region has suggested that the analysis of the financial problems of rural society in that area. The result is that income drop and the growth in rural income are equivalent to $1300,000 per population, or about $50 billion by 2020 and 2021. Mr. President. Fifty billion dollars hit these two, 2020, and 2021 rural communities. In fact, the rural communities have no part of their power to attack this city line. And the position of a government fund is not that it is in some way defender that he puts a city line on the ground and a German on the project of $50 billion dollars, an project that is totally unprovable to serve his purpose. On the contrary, the transport engineer has the opinion that public transportation goals can be achieved by spending on the project several billion, as he put it in an article in the core. But it is now talking about 50 billion from a fund, so this matter is essentially self - dead. A reference work by the European Union says that rural society has a high impact on the activities of the State in many areas. It continues, with the permission of the president: It is difficult to assess the final effect of the Covid-19 crisis on rural society. In this regard, it is proper to say that Reykjavík's debt is 116 billion, while the NYU is all owed 340 billion. Of course, it does not come easily. The parties in this situation do not have any performance or ability to operate on such tasks. This is of great interest, which says that the European Union's Management Board has concluded that it is important for the state's funds to come up with a wide variety of measures. And not only that, but it says so, by permission of a president: ...and with direct financial support to protect the services and activities of the rural communities throughout the country. It is also stated in the comments of Reykjavíkurburg that the community does not own some, and not at all, the city of Reykjavík for legal projects. These statements are worth more attention and need to be discussed, and I wish to be registered again on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u10	Mr. President. I'm working on a project I was assigned to, looking for a city line master plan. I have only the news that the search has not been successful so far, and I am Googled. I found a massive report on 43 pages, published by the Council of Management, Transport and Regional Ministers, and Society Association in the capital area, which is entitled The Building of Associations in the capital area to 2033. There is a detailed public transport report and other aspects of investment needs and so forth. I searched it for something called a business or a management plan or something, but it did not work. It does not comment on what happens after a city line is established, how to run a public transportation called a city line. There's nothing to find there, and I haven't found anything yet but, of course, will continue. I don't believe it, Mr. President, just don't believe it until I'm aware that nothing has been discussed how to run this device, with all these groups and committees and management groups that have obviously been preparing the project for this report and the one I had the last one with and the site the city line. Mr. President. I've met a lot of people in a long time. People who go into business and plan to start a business, even if it's small, maybe just a business called shop, don't buy a shop without first considering making a plan about what their income and expenses will be. There are things that, like any person who's been involved in business. What are the chances of earning money, and what are the costs? It is pay and electricity, and other things, temperatures, and so forth, and perhaps some money to the owners. Everybody thinks that. There's no such thing as a lousy business, even just one or two, that you don't think in advance how you're going to run the company. Mr. President. I don't know if this is the largest project in Iceland, up to 80 billion. I may forget something, but I don't have any particular project that goes so high in 80 billion. She has come this far, but the preparation has largely meant making beautiful wrappings and beautiful words. I've read lots of beautiful words about high quality transportation, and there's a lot of such words in this report, the size of the world, and more than that, but there's nothing to do about it. Should I believe that the neighboring communities of Reykjavík are going to enter this project without realizing if they're going to be affected in the future? Are men so shortsighted, Mr. President? I don't believe it until I deal with it. Are humans so shortsighted?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u11	Mr. President. I was in my last speech discussing only the opinion of a Danish advisory firm in the city line of WawI. They have suggested that the demand for a city line to be exposed is not sufficient. So special measures must be taken to promote demand for this transport, this new bus transport. It is vital that we listen to counseling companies who know well and also experts in this field as we consider whether this is a promising task. This company says that forced operations are actually needed to achieve sufficient passenger numbers to carry out the project. These public cars are then suggested to take the first place in the road at the expense of cars, as well as to maintain the policy of parking parking. That's very interesting. The priority is to force people to move from their private vehicle to public transportation because it is quite clear that their private car will be subject to great delay due to city lines. It's taking part of the founding system under the city line and this will result in the delays of those travelling in private cars. Then we will discuss conservative policy in the parking lot. What does that mean? The number of the cars to be cut is to be reduced, making it more difficult to obtain parking. We know that when we don't get a parking lot, we have to go further away, and that makes it more likely that people don't quite see the point of going in the private car when there are no parking spaces. In other words, it is arranged or encrypted, I would say, force people to take this road despite the fact that Reykjavíkurburg and the mayor's office declared that it should only be selective. Something doesn't work out. Here are very good points from this dance counseling firm that show that some form of forced action must be taken to get the masses back to that, the number of people who take advantage of this new route, this new bus ride, and bus routes, to get it into something called acceptable prospects, to say that it is new in the way it was created. It is, in fact, a misunderstanding that a city line is eco-friendly. This is what Frosti Sigurjónsson, a former senator, has written on the matter and has done a lot of research. It is said that city line cars are going to be electric, which, in itself, is conditional, but they are not necessarily saved, but electricity is common. A heavy and large city line car must be very good for each passenger to use energy less than for a passenger on a light electric truck. Keep in mind that the mayor's share has just decided that this is such a environmental transport system, which is talking about here for the future, to 2040. If so, it may now be expected that quite a lot of people will be on the electric trucks in this country and in Reykjavík. They are also environmentally friendly and even environmental, but the public carriages in the light of what I mentioned earlier. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I see that time has passed and I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u12	V.E.G. President. We've discussed some of the preceding what you can do with 50 billion. What is available to this number? That has even been true. It is suggested that this is about Sixty percent of the construction costs for a planned hospital being set up in the wrong place. This would also pay for the state radio business, i.e. the section suggested by the State for about Ten, eleven years. For a fraction of this amount, the pool crew could be electricalized so that a large ship, a large cruise ship, could also lie on the pier and get electricity from the country, and would not have to draw black marsh over its next quarter of the Sun. Mr. President. I think it is absolutely necessary for us today to consider how we are going to set priorities for our money. I'm sure that when we get back here in October in the fall and start making budgets that will all work, from now on to October, it's very difficult because we have to deal with the first aspect of rebuilding our country's budget, the financial budget. Under such circumstances, it is natural that an amazingly complex and incredibly irresponsible attempt to release from a government fund of 50 billion dollars is to be released. on tasks that no one really knows how to work and how to function. There's another thing, Mr. President, that I've brought up before it's that when these cars, which you understand, are quite large and tall, they'll drive through city streets. That in itself is a very serious matter. But there is something serious about this situation. It's because we're building hospitals in the wrong place, so the Ring Road around it has been so tight that it can only be predictable that the Ringway in these paths will remain two lanes in each direction. If you're going to take some of this under the city line, i.e. the second lane of two, the car sequence that is currently intolerable from half three to the east will be like a nightmare. There are so many things in this matter that not only are powered doubles, but it is in the way that if you think for a moment, every man who thinks at least in the future will see that this is a suicide, Mr. President. It's suicide to do this in this way. In fact, there is nothing that we Middle Classes and women do not want to do more than have to come back after some time and say: In fact, we immediately pointed to it. Mr. President, we don't enjoy it very much, but it's happened over and over again. There is, however, a list of such matters. I don't know why people do any shit. They don't want to listen. There is nothing new in this hall, even when the epidemic went over, the government community wouldn't listen to good advice even if they made it theirs after some time. [[The president calls.]] But I see now that my time is now over, Mr. President, to a time and wait for it. President, signing up again to the speaker's file.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u13	Mr. President. As I had proclaimed, I now plan to deal with a very long - term Dizziness path that has faced various obstacles, especially from the present part of Reykjavík, which seems to find various ways to get involved in this project, delay it, and prevent the benefits that have been considered. I think it's best to start by looking into history, so we'll better figure out the situation we're in right now regarding the Sunwater Project. That's where I'm going to look, even. to articles written in the 2015 Björn Jóhann Björnsson's son in the morning and carried the Sunday track into a drawer. This is a very interesting article and, in a relatively short way, will cover the history of the situation that has led to the place we are in today's Dizziness Way. Because of how well it is written, I think it would be best if I quoted from the article that bears the subheading first in an organization in 1984. It says, by permission of the president: 30 years have passed since Sunday's first program, when placed in the world's main organization in 1984. Since then, there have been several reports from the roadtype and the city of Reykjavík. The entire story cannot be traced here, but in the spring months of 2004, a assessment report was published. In November of that year, the Organization issued its decision, which approved all options except the filling of the Sunway for the Gufunes Head. The Ministry of Environment then confirmed the decision of the Organization in November 2005, with certain conditions. Work on an assessment report for the 1st phase of Dizziness, published in March 2008. I restate, Mr. President, as presented here. This was approved in 2005, and the 2008 evaluation report was completed by the first stage, a total of 12 years ago. ▪ There was a new option; a tunnel in the first chapter of the city, the Dewhole, or from Saturday to the west at Gufunesi, in the east, by preconceiving Káppsvík. The estimated total cost of the Sunway, according to this report, was about $22 billion, which today takes into account the cost of GDP. Let's put this in perspective with the city line. The cost of the project is estimated to be 80 billion, and I think most people realize that it's going to be a lot ahead of schedule. Even as planned, the city line is expected to cost more than the waterways according to this. What, then, about the cost of operating that will be added to the surface of the future? This is different from the Sunway, where operating costs will not be significant, but there is a high probability that they will earn income, not to mention its gross economic benefits. This comparison is quite striking, on the one hand, the setting of all this in a city line, but at the same time, with all available schemes, try to get in the way of this practical and long - time operation. [[The president calls.]] But now I'm just beginning my trip through the Sunway, things aren't there, so I pray to the highest degree. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u14	V.E.G. President. Now I've made a suggestion for the resolution of a five-year transport program by the secretary of transport and the local government. To make a long story short, this plan deals with the same categories or goals that I went to talks earlier tonight as I discussed the overall policy of public transport between areas. The plan begins in the same way, the sector is a general transport project, and then it begins; transport safety aims, cost-effective transport objective, environmental sustainable transport objective and positive development aims. These are pretty much the same factors discussed in the overall public transport policy that is being carried out by the 15-year plan. I'm not staying with it for very long. Then there is a list of the role of transport administrative modules. It begins with a walking agency and deals with tax returns, which was mentioned earlier as the markets of a walking agency under budget. There are road safety fees, license and monitoring fees for transport, rent-instruction fees, accelerator version, and driver's registration fees, and other such factors that are collected by the U.S. Association. It's a income stock that runs right into the state fund. There are large expenses and, to the extent, most of the pay paid. This proposal explains how the cost is divided into the Agency's major legal projects and explains general tasks in accordance with the emphasis that will be worked on within the budget. Transport clinics handle transport management and in this wide context. The next article will discuss a number of precautions and security plans. One of the important things to stress is security and prevention. I don't think there was a discussion of prevention in what was a fundamental general policy of public transport, but it's perhaps a little different. In this prevention and safety programme, you will discuss the need for air security, navigation and traffic security, and this is a fairly detailed and lower level of activity, such as increasing the number of emissions for tourists we'll all be aware of having a lack of. The police, then, organize traffic control. Since then, work-related evaluations, including walk-by-site, have been monitored and performed. on flight and anything of flight, e.g. Iceland's Weather Office and Istavia. So there are many things here. There is also a national Transporter surveillance. It's called harbor control, which includes... to carve foreign trade ships that come to this country. - I see my time is running out, and I'm waiting for the best. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u15	V.E.G. President. Because I was in my last speech in mythology, I'd like to get back to the ground. Then my mind goes up to the city's fun, and into the Westland, where my roots are closer, and where my roots lie, I'd like to think of the story of the Union of the West Side. I would like to, Mr. President, first read from the bottom line of the narrative because I feel, as I have mentioned in more speeches, humility in this review. Yet, there is some limit to the extent that there will be no more pleasure in limited transport. The depression is this: It has to be said that the situation in Western countries has deteriorated over the past ten years, and the population with the road system has increased greatly, which is one of the country's urban surveys since 2016. Since 2008 little has been done, and Westerners experience that the national part of the world is slaving. As a result, many looked forward to a new transport program that would offer suggestions for significant improvements. For years, Westerners have struggled to double the western road to Kililarnes, so they are happy that they will finally begin. It is very difficult, however, to expect that in the next five years, only over a billion people in the Westland will be carried out, with no less resources available. Therefore, the European Union of the West strongly stresses that increasing funding for design will be provided for Forest Beach and Uxabra so that those soon and preferably no later than 2023 will be started and the design of the two - sided Western Landways from the Haglandway will be ready at the end of the first period so that the year 2025 can be started. The European Union of Western society has previously proposed a special attack on the European Union in the United States to tie up barriers and budgets for the project doubled. V.E.G. President. There are four main points. First of all, the timing of development on Forest Coast Road, secondly, delay of production in Uxa spine, thirdly understation of budgets in the repair of road erosion and fourth, to increase funding for Western design. All of this is what the Westerners stress in the once - known Western transport program. But according to the information we have, he's one of the few chapters of the Iceland root system that hasn't been placed in a broken section. He's one of the two root roads in Iceland, which are still malar way, and he's seen before, that nothing has happened in terms of tens of years. As a result, a link between Stingingingness and Dala is on this old malar road, where there is a lot of accidents and such. The rural community in Western countries strongly stresses the hurrying of Forest Road projects, the completion of the design of the first period of the transport programme, as well as the beginning of the first period of transport strategy, but not later. - V.I.E.L.L.I.E.L.D. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u16	A respectable president. Transport and traffic in Reykjavík are very serious. This is something all the city knows. They are trapped in a traffic jam, and this reduces the standard of living, creates risks, increases pollution, and adversely affects climate. This is one of the results of the recent construction stop, far too long, along with the public transport experiment, trying to increase the use of people on the bus with a billion support each year most likely in the last nine or ten years without achieving considerable success. This is faced with an urgent and necessary task to correct traffic issues in the capital. These are crucial tasks, and they are burned to the point that they are needed because they are designed to make traffic easier, to increase security, to reduce pollution, and to waste. It's absolutely necessary that the Grand Prix be stopped, so I mention it first. It is absolutely necessary to engage in the Sunway, and I remind you that it was a key reason for the people of Kjalarnes when they agreed to a coalition with Reykjavík in a community. So it is that the city's financial economy under the current part of the world is now in charge, and of course also due to the impact of the virus, is extremely poor. The comments of Reykjavíkurburg, by means of the President's permission, to face economic effects following a pandemic crown virus: In the 2 or the next treatment pack, it is necessary to analyze the financial resources of your community and provide practical measures to ensure that they can carry out their legal tasks toward the population and the activities of the community. Go on says: ▪ If it had only been a temporary problem, 3 to 6 months of a quick recovery process, it would have been possible that the government would support the financing problem by borrowing at cost. The problem, however, is not merely a short - term financing problem but a totally self - destructive business to many years. This is a statement made in the comments of Reykjavíkurburg. It is totally selfless for years, totally insurmountable to years. Go on, with President's permission: This insatisfaction cannot be solved by an increase in allowed taxation or services, or by massive cuts in the city's spendings, which, to the most extent, cover-of-the-arts and welfare services. Standard methods are not available. This is not to be solved by large loans, since money from business will not be available for many years. This is the main reason that the state gives direct irrefutable support to the rural society, which ensures that they can live up to their service duties in the population and in the homes and support of the economy at least to the extent that the U.S. Council has agreed by law. A rural society in such a position as it presents itself as a totally unsolvable business for many years is naturally out of place to attack one or no city line. This case is highly unrealistic and hardly perfunctory, I allow myself to say. [[To the point: No, no, no.]] I'm asking to be put back on the rosary in order to discuss this in detail.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u17	Mr. President. I'm thinking about the city line management plan and I've been looking for it. I was assigned that assignment earlier tonight. It is a worthwhile project because there is no such small business in private companies that there is no need for a management plan. In my first talk, I took an example of a small business, a shop at a shop. No one goes to a commercial business without planning to figure out what the income and expenses could be. We're going to a city line where there's no such thing on the table. There is no way to figure out what a business the phenomenon will cost and what your income may be. The whole idea today seems to go out of getting the money to start this idea, in a subtle way, as the Þórarinn Hjaltason puts it so enjoyable in his article on the core, and propaganda to entice kingdoms and neighboring communities to join in the project. They agree that it seems that they have been released from the armies they have been in at least a decade in that there have not been any implementation in the groundwaterways or in the crossholes throughout that period, with the result that traffic is stopped. Of course, if they have little to do in order to get these projects to be implemented through a transport contract in the capital area, they are truly happy. So they sign it, and the state pays for it, Madam President. On page 18. 35 In a report of the project group, which I quoted in my last speech, the budget for building is spoken of by the president's permission: The material group also suggests to collect new charges from traffic within the capital area, either in the form of roads of specific projects, such as stocks and bridges, or in the form of user fees, e.g. The so-called tata and pollution fees. It's the old wording. Today they are called speed and traffic costs, but they are called tata and pollution charges that could be taken into account by busy hours, automobile exhausts, and so on. The tents would be assigned part of the money needed to transport in the capital area. I'll read on, with president's permission: ▪ In terms of increased revenues for building urban lines, the task force at last suggests that rural areas in the capital area will be provided with the necessary legal authority to cover up the urban budgets for their planned activities... Thus, users are required to pay a great deal of city planning, but there is no management plan. I looked up the necessary strategy, and it says here, by permission of the president: The key to setting up an enterprise is the planning and the first and most important step in it is to make a good business plan for the company that you intend to create [...] Budget schemes consisting of a company's income and cost plan, which is the company's management programme [...] In a management plan, you need to set down the budget for the company and how your income is made. It's so simple. Why is there no plan, Madam President? Why not? Why would that be? Because it is anticipated that the business will become part of society indefinitely.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u18	Madam President. I was only here discussing that the city line was inexorable, but electric cars in general. With regard to the rate on the buses, the new large buses to be on the city line, it is unlikely that the carriages will be full at all times. It is very likely that they will drive empty, which is naturally not available. Whether powered by electricity or fossil fuels, driving empty particles is not obligatory. A passenger traveling by the city line can also travel in an electric vehicle. It is quite clear, Madam President, that the development of electrical vehicles is moving rapidly, and at the time you look at the city line, there will be a considerable number of electrical vehicles in Reykjavík. A passenger traveling in a city line may also travel in an electric vehicle and choose the shortest way to his destination, thus saving more energy if so. Road colors are also increasing in turn. It is estimated that one trip in a city line car is a thousand times as fast as a light electric vehicle. More fragments call for more maintenance of the road and the use of oil. This has been the case with Frosti Sigurjónsson, a former senator, analyzing and putting on the stitches of the city line. He has presented interesting things in this regard. The urban planning is enormously energy - consuming and will result in high - emissions of greenhouse gases if you want to join them. Monuments will be used only by those who make use of the city line, and then there is the experience that the innovation has been bad and by no means sufficient to live up to the project. It's natural just a waste of it, Madam President. However, electric cars can use to the full the forces that are already there, do not forget. There is a great deal of evolution in these matters. If self - exhausted cars are on the move, are we going to begin to tie ourselves to a project that costs another hundred billion that is reserved only for these buses? I believe, Madam President, that in view of the high technological revolution in these substances, men did not look ahead enough with self-driving cars, etc. Those who have spoken to the city line have discussed that the city line improves the quality of life for the population. I just don't agree with that. I think that the city line will be reduced to quality of life. It will be paid by citizens in the capital area and by people of all lands through a wealth of government. Based on the stock costs, a mean home has to be set up for 1◯2 million. K. ... andwe'renot seeing the cost of operating. There are no numbers. Then I'll probably have to pay with her as if she's got to get a down payment on buses. In the event of loss of city planning, a share of each household in that loss can take tens of thousands more years to come, and most homes will remember that amount. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of stuff left unsolved in these materials, and I'd like to be put back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u19	Madam President. I've been thinking about what you can get for 50 billion because it's the amount that seems to be pale from a government fund to put on this adventure whenever it becomes reality. I've thought it strange because I haven't seen it in the past 10 to 15 years that a real attempt was made to make the bus system in the capital area business - lifed and user - lifeding. It would have, for example. You can do so by keeping the bus free and experimenting with it because you have spent 9 billion of your usefulness from 4% to 4% in the past nine years. This money hasn't been counted out. But now we're talking more than five times that amount, and we plan to do that, if I've just noticed, triple the use of public transportation from 4% to 12%. In itself, Madam President, this is a completely unwritten paper. I haven't seen any studies that are behind the claims that these plans prepare so that I think it would have been necessary for us to see it. In this situation, when the government's budget doesn't have an enormous amount of money, it's supposed to go into something like this, and it's gonna flood out 50 billion. This won't stop there, Madam President. During the day, the chairman of the judicial committee of Reykjavík, U.S.A., said that the next step was easy to take. She should come in just a little bit or even at the same time or I don't know what. Madam President. At least for the next 15 years, we're going to run at least Two public car systems. We'll run the bus and run a city line, become everything, and it'll blow out and get bigger. Again, I would like to remind you of the idea of an architect's annual Ármannsson Pétur, who appeared 15 years ago. She was totally unconcerned, and she walked out that a line was from the center of the city into Soke. She was one tenth of what is now supposed to be done. I'm sure she'd have helped very much, and then come back what I've been criticizing here, which faces on a map of the first phase of a city line to begin with the Cape, go down to Voga, Southland Way, and down to the end of the world, Mrs. President, of all the streets. Talk about improving the quality of life for people. I don't think the quality of life for the people of Höffjörður, now built up as a local street and an apartment street, will improve with having these monsters, which are expected to be the city linecars, drawings and pictures you've seen from them, over your head every day. Then we're on the road to Savile Street and Scotland Road, Madam President. I say again, how do you get the turn off a Sportway Road on a three - team bus and maybe a hundred feet [18 m] long? I'd like to see it, so I'll witness now at Halli and Laddi. However, the route leads to the coming bridge over Fos Sog and about two 60 - year - old apartment streets in Kópavogi, a small well. There's 25 stops at 12 miles. I say, a man who goes up to this slot on the Cape and goes all this way, calls about Reykjavík, doesn't have much to do because I can't see that this is the speed drive that humans want to leave. [[The president calls.]] This is what I need to go on with and try to finish the next talk, and I would appreciate it if I did. The president put me on the rosary again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u20	Madam President. I had started dealing with the Sunway, one of the most important and the most urgent means of transportation. There is a long story, and I was just beginning to trace it, which is important in my opinion so that we can identify where the assignment is today and why. I pointed out that according to a plan, the total cost of a Sunway, at the price of 2015, is 36 billion dollars. The estimated cost of a city line is 80 billion dollars. and then we know that it's totally out of control. But at any rate, if we look only at the estimated cost, the city line is more than twice as expensive as the DZI, not to mention the cost of operating as follows the construction of a city line taken above this important project that would result in real national benefits and real benefits and benefits to driving in the capital area. I had come to that point when men were getting ready to leave on the Sunway and continue to leave, with president's permission: ▪ A few months earlier, the Council of the City of Reykjavík had agreed that a waterway would be set up in tunnels from Gufunesi, Saturdays, with a warning about the results of environmental assessment. The design and implementation of the 1st phase, which was to take 5 to 6 years, followed by the collapse of the bank in the autumn of 2008, and the Sunway was pushed aside. She was, and is, continuing in the main organization of ReykjavíkurHow - when it comes to this development - to the year 2040. In 2012, the odds were not increased, of implementing the project. Then state and city concluded that there would be no road construction in Reykjavík for the next ten years - this is the post office stop, Madam President, which we have mentioned several times in this discussion and that the state was attacked to support the bus business. And go on: The contract required a reexamination of the project every two years. The case was recorded in the mayor and city council in October 2013. Then the members of the Independence Party suggested that discussions with the State be turned down for the future of Sunwater and/or Sunwalks. The aim of the interview would be to determine the cost of the project, to earn interest, to find ways to finance, to divide, and to schedule the project. ▪ Excessive assessment takes into account the fact that by the Sunway, large areas within the city's low use targets (Givingas and Elfs) and that become development sites for building up with other areas of the city are associated with road, in the form of road transport, ◯ stated, including the U.S.A. ... onthecomputer's proposal. They were members of the Independence Party, which at the time did not like the city line, but they were aware of the importance of waterways, and they can still say the same about the tip of the Independence Party in Reykjavík. However, there may be a key point, the importance of the swimming track, including the one on the other. However, we now have the city authorities, which simply do not want the city to grow, holding it in a straitjacket of the policy called dense construction and a closely related relative of the civil line project. Let's move on with the story of the waterway, so we'll get a better grip on the situation right now. I'm going back to quote in this informative article, well written. But it seems to me, Madam President, that the next speech will have to be held, so I pray. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u21	V.E.G. President. As a result, I would like to review this talk with the local communities what was presented in my speech as I discussed the situation on the Forest Coast Road that links Dali with Snæfells. So I'll grab down here on it, by permission of the President: ▪ It may be said that the strong bond between these structures over the centuries gradually disappears, but with improved routes through the forest coasts, new life would be blown into the old bond and cooperation that marked the area for so long. Thus, this development is serious and must be followed by action in improved roads along the coasts of Forest Beach, as it is emphasized by the town of Stykishols. During the past few decades, Forest Coast Road has been replaced by transport policies, but in 2007, the Forest Coast Road was set up on a transport program raised hopes for the plans and cooperation of rural society and for increasing transport between Strategies and the Dalassia. However, with a new secretary of transportation at that time, the road was decommissioned with no logical support. The improved transport through Forest Beach will promote regional settlements and lead to greater cooperation between rural communities and even the cohesion of rural communities. - That discussion has taken place in this area, but it's fundamentally that transportation is in order. In fact, without improved association on the coast of Forest Beach, it is unrealistic to discuss the unity of rural communities on the Snæfellnes and the Dala coast. At present, rural society is looking around for other mutual advantages, and it is clear that good transport is among the most important factors when checking to see if harmony is practical. So it says: In the current policy-making programme, there is a difference between the two groups. Emphasis on dealing with reductions in individual areas, monotonous employment and ensuring that technological changes and development are also taking place in the geographically distributed settlements [...] improvements in rural areas would thus be in a clear manner consistent with the emphasis on policy-makers and to improve the development of the wood coasts as well as in nearby areas. Opportunities for urban development, such as the Dala coast, the Smoke, and the Beach are mainly considered to be in tourism, not to be based on existing agriculture, but improved transport, and the possibility of increasing sectoral diversity is the basis for the management of the area. [...] It then shows that the aim of transport is to improve habitat quality by improving transport within and between defined work areas and increasing where possible. Finally says, with permission of the Supreme Court. President: In the autumn Summit of the Federal Association in the West of 2019, the agreement was agreed by all rural areas in the Westland with the following conclusion on the Forest Coast: During the past three years, minor adjustments have been made on the road to Forest Beach. Design and improvements on the road are urgent. It is important that the date and date of the implementation of the protocols should be agreed without delay. - And put emphasis on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u22	Madam President. It's a little strange to be talking about a transport plan when the biggest investment project, the city line, falls on all the tests. It seems to be searching for a less effective suggestion, and now it is many bad ones. This doesn't match any requirements. It does not meet any requirement for financing and any other such factors. I'll mention, first of all, there's no adequate definition of the project. Well, that's the first thing. On the one hand, there are insufficient costs, thirds are insufficient boundaries and risk analysis, what might go wrong, and may result in excessive costs. There is no interest analysis, Madam President. There's no scheme, it doesn't exist. There is nothing about who should be inclined to do this work, of course, that there is absolutely no hope of bringing financial gain, not the smallest possibility. It is impossible that the use of this phenomenon, as it has been called by the whale. A member of the Independence Party, if this is to be expected. Some experts, engineers, and professionals have made a public announcement. One of them says that it is possible to achieve these goals on public transportation by spending several billion dollars on it. The leadership of the Independence Party is going to be the key to putting in it 50 billion of the public funds of the state's budget. In addition, rural society should be involved. We have in front of ourselves reviews with other members of Congress that describe the plight of the local community. They're almost on their knees after the Covid epidemic. The comments of Reykjavík, for example, say that it is headed for a totally unsuspecting business for many years. Is this community going to some city line? What testimony does it bring to some city line with hope of bearing itself? We have considered a economic analysis, which shows that the project is not economically practical. What does it take to help people realize that they're completely lost and lost? What does it take? Why is it that those who are interested in this work fail to discuss it? And if we're wrong or something is missing, why don't they come and park, for example. to this current strategy for searching? Why don't they just come and say that she exists, and everyone can study her? Of course, if she existed, it would have been long ago. Why don't someone come here and say that there are adequate costs and expenses? Why does a person not come along and say that there is a profit - making analysis? It's not gonna happen. An environmental engineer says that these goals can be achieved by spending several billion instead of billions of public funds. Why doesn't someone come and tell us why they're not right? It's because they can't. Madam President. This case is so lame that it doesn't talk, and it's natural to be wasting it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u23	Madam President. I've been talking here for our minority reasons. paritaprevir Bergþór the son of Ólason, and make a careful study of it in my previous speeches. In short, it can be said that two main factors, i.e. what divides between us in the 2 smaller parts and most of the environment and transport committees are mainly two factors. We are glad that the amount of money has increased in transportation, as planned. We are delighted to share the share in various matters and in many of the things there are, and this has been brought to a better end in the treatment of the committee. On the other hand, we make comments, such as I've studied in speeches, at the city line, and that funding is given to the project we believe is thought to be thoughtless and unconcerned, e.g. missing a schedule that I've made for a detailed search for tonight and night, and I haven't yet found. But let me not say unless I find her sometime and maybe. She's lying somewhere. But I think it's amazing if you go to the biggest operation of Iceland's history that this city line is 80 billion that you haven't considered how to run it. I can't believe it until I deal with it, Madam President. Then we make a comment on a faraway fee, make a comment that the government is offering three cases of government, all of which carry some kind of premise in three different ways, with a different approach to all the primes and politics. It is in a transport programme and in the source bill for the establishment of an official community and also in the bill to legalize the work on road work. These are three cases that all expect to pay. We make comments about it. I'll make a note of how it's been won. We'd like to have seen it on one bill, and we could discuss it in whole here at the council what's toll in this country at all. But this has gone beyond any suspicion of the three politics. Pays are not new in this country, as legends report. In his collection of 1899, the son of Jón Þorkelsson, which he compiled, there is a history of charges showing that the catacombs were clearly ahead of his time because there was a farmer on the spot in Snæfellsnes, who made an attempt to collect tax charges. As says in this kveri, he made this experiment: ▪ At a place of a river's ridge (a firm place) lived in the old farmer Grani name was Grani, he was both greedy and rich. The Alpha Road lay around his estate a pore of dirges, which is now known as the State Hall, and is about to pass through this road, which is to the west under the glacier, or to the river valley; the very mass of which is the merchant of Óafsvík and the Boing, and the trades of the west are to the far west at Šposis, called Hjallarveron, Cheflaví, Oofsavour, and Brimils. This Grani now pretended he could gain a lot of money, if he would toll the road; therefore, he offered a very great garden from the sea to the waters of the Long Sea. He had a gate in the court where the way is; and he didn't let anyone go, except those who paid Granatol. It is light by all the hairs he has been, but the evil men laid hold on this, because they gave her to Grani her husband; for some morning he was found dead, hanging at the second doorpost of the garden gate. Since then, there has never been a custom. It is easy to see the gardens of the apples, that he has been exceedingly tall and thick, and its leings about 300 to400 bosoms. And then I'll finish this story.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u24	The president would like to announce a change in the work plan that at his earlier meeting today, the prime committee decided to replace the General Work Programme. However, this decision will not affect the fact that tomorrow evening's kitchen date, i.e. Common political debates. Starting conference tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. will be a traditional discussion. In other respects, members of the body will be called and members of a congregation meeting will be announced at a time convenient for the Senate, as it is now known.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u25	We'll have a lunch break this afternoon from the clock. This morning for a council meeting and from the clock. 14-014:30 for a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u26	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Organic Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Justice Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u27	A respectable president. A few weeks ago, there was a reason. Chairman of the trade board and platoon board at the top. The prime minister here in a pool and gave a talk on genetics for stocks in the Samherja company. The head of the trade committee and the head of the left green said that this reflects a major problem in complaint systems with unregistered forwarders and a contract to big financial partners. The chairman also mentioned that vast sums of our common resources, based on national partnerships, would be prevented. She believed that with genetic inheritances of stocks in a fishing business, the right to hunt would last a lifetime. I don't think we'll agree, but I admit I agree with what happened. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir, that we could direct our resources better and better, more transparent and more efficient ways. I'm not talking about any yarmulke. I'd like to state that three times during this assembly, we've brought up changes to the nation's property of the sea resources and three times the members of the Government parties have taken our suggestions. They've suggested our proposal for temporary negotiations. In other words, there is no difference. By my knowledge, there is no sound and a picture of the majority of the people here in the chamber. That's why I want to ask the highest. Ministers, and how important it is to get this out: Is she in agreement with the head of the Council's Professional Board and a senator's left green about inherited stocks in a fishing business forever? Tells you the highest. Prime Minister? Because it could be read very clearly that the head of the employment committee felt that the threat was that the right to hunt was with the genetics of stocks forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u28	Mr President, thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, daughter of this inquiry that I really feel is about three. We can start with the stuff about the fishing system, just like that. A senator made it a subject. It is very clear in the laws on the control of fish fish that the resource is the national share. As a result, it can be concluded that the right to use that resource will not be provided permanently. That's how I understand the law, and that's how they've been interpreted. I want less of it. It's supposed to be that here, a member of the council is cutting down a bill about the changes in this same fishing system as usual. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, then the highest. Professional minister, please report. Then it was made clear that our interpretation of this provision is not to be given permanently. Second, it's about the resource regulations in the constitution, which we do. A senator has been discussing all this ideal period in the field of the officers. I think it is very important for the future discussion of resources, not just fishing the resource, but all resources, that the constitution of the use rights of common resources, whether by sea, by energy resources, by water or by nature, will not be delivered permanently. What application, though, does it make to me that I hear under the law at any time, whether it's done with temporary contracts, like what it is? A senator is interested in, or that it is clear that there are revealable rights. Third, it's how we want to see the genetic tax system evolve. Perhaps that is the third aspect mentioned in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u29	A respectable president. Yeah, that's a hairy answer. It could not be passed on by the highest. The prime minister, she believes, is long. Does she think he's permanent? She says it isn't. Then I'd like to know how permanent it is or how long it should be. How many years is he supposed to last? What is needed in order to make long notice on the notice so that government damages will not come? This is vital because we agree on it, me and the highest. Prime Minister, that you need a resource directive. But there must be a resource problem with a bite, a clearly defined resource directive. And during the three-way rejection and destruction of the administrative body, our proposals in the resistance, restoration, and other categories, to enforce contracts, I fear the resource directive being cooperated by the administrations. It must be made clear, for what purpose is it to place national possession in a constitution if this is not known precisely? We need to know. We need to know the views of the government parties to make it clear that, with a resource directive, we are ensuring the nation's property, national property of the fishing resource, not halfways.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. Although the answer to a prime minister may not be the case. A senator likes to have it, it's not a hairy thing, though it is. A senator chooses to call it that way. It is perfectly clear on my part, and it has been observed repeatedly in this hall that this right to use will not be provided permanently. [[Up front.]] Even if stock can be obtained, this does not mean that the right to use is provided permanently. It's in the counsellor's hands what it's like to do. Why do I want the resource rules in the constitution? Yes, I believe it favors the thought I believe that more of the members of this hall agree that it is important that part of our original society appear in this manner in a constitution. There we can have differing political views on length, whether it is right to go through contracts, the distribution of innovations. There may be differences between resources. However, the fundamental issue of the constitution is to make a decision to the people and the council that these resources are in national possession and that they will not be given permanently. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u31	A respectable president. The biographies are upset because two labor leaders have declared that the contracts fail because of financial loans. V.E.G. Secretary of finance claims that the labor movement agrees to do nothing about it. Post-operative waiting lists are prolonged, patients on the waiting list for orthopaedic surgery are no longer able to move to Sweden and or consult within the country after vital measures. The poor, the worst, and older citizens are still waiting for justice. How long will they wait? The application of the health system is going to be greatly increased, physical therapy, exercise and swimming pools, after the Covid valves. Children are awaiting treatment with BUGL, child-adolescents. A group of children falls outside the system and becomes future microorganists. It's been this way for the whole time of this government and it's getting worse. Before the last election, I especially fought to wait on BUGL to be no more. A child will receive five hours for all summer after all treatments due to Covid-19, five hours. This is a Covid thing. Under these circumstances, there are also waiting lists because people have already been harmed by physiotherapy and other necessary activities in order to live normal lives. Psychiatric disorders are debilitating, blocking, and causing suffering and are also life - threatening. And children. Can we not make sure that children, very sick children, who for some reason are not properly ill, receive services? Or is it necessary to assume that certain diseases and health problems do not give people the right to serve?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who was present many times in his inquiry. I'll take two of them for a while. A senator, though there are many things. That's what attracts the government's declaration on insurance. The biographies are made for several years, and the government published a very extensive declaration, and a large part of it is in place. However, there are some yet to be concluded. One of the factors that have now been completed is a study of the methodology in calculation of consumer science, a report that was prepared to include: of world-known international indicator experts, as they also exist. The calculation of the consumption index was considered, particularly for housing teams and index boxes. The results of the last week of the committee are that these calculations are all met internationally. Please refer to Hagami Iceland, that it especially examined the length in the calculation of the housing team. However, as we have heard during the discussion, opinions vary considerably between whether the staff belong in the index or not. It may also vary considerably in how it goes beyond the prices of housing. However, there has been considerable preparation already, and the Generals can expect to receive a bill for insurance. Hv. A senator also mentioned the matter of mental health, especially the mental health of children. I don't have time to go in it in my first answer, but I will use the second to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u33	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. But I want to reiterate as a father with a sick child and as a person who has had to be on a waiting list for a long time, more than a year, that there is nothing worse than that. And people in prison are to be judged, for this is nothing more than prison because of illness. We should be concerned with setting priorities when it comes to adults, but we cannot afford to do so with children. There is no need for us to come up here again and again and fight against waiting for children who need vital service to be ignored and that everything is always unchanged. It doesn't work any more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u34	Mr. President. Then we come to things that involve the health system and especially mental - health issues. A senator makes it a subject. Of course, there has been a tremendous effort to build up the health system in the present government and current health minister. There has been special emphasis on mental health and mental - health benefits, especially at health care. However, it is not that we have a perfect system. I can agree with what. That's what a senator does. Of course, special attention should be given to the role that actually contributes to the emergency services of mental - health children. But that has been an issue of the highest importance. Healthcare Minister to specifically improve this factor. There we are looking at a very long story, I'd like to tell you, decades of history, in which this whole group of languages, both in children and in adults, was for a long time not a top priority in Icelandic society, so we just take it wide, simply because of the nature of mental health problems. [[The president calls.]] I believe there have been a lot of good work in this terms. But I can agree with that. A senator tells us that there is still work to be done on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u35	A respectable president. I'll direct you to the highest level. Transport and Regional Ministers. It's very short, and I'm not going to take any words or explanations. This is the reference to an interview at the highest level. Secretary of the Mounting line on Station 2 yesterday. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is the precise procedure that a minister believes that every time, the available transport plan will be agreed on at the next fall meeting and not now at the spring Summit?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Happily, we have a current transport program, and as a result, we have work to do with the transport program we are discussing here at the council, making some adjustments, as it were. A senator knows well as the head of the Environment and Transport Committee. Projects are being accelerated, even out of the last period of a 15-year schedule, and reroute them in the first schedule. Within the first five years, workers are speeding up their work so that they can set priorities for their design and construction - because design is a part of construction. Many people believe that a work is not the sea until the digging is here or the earth or the truck is there. But it's not like that. It is a long time before it is due to happen. That is how to make up all the projects in this room probably about 8,700 years of work, if we set up an old ground basis, a report made by the University of Akureyri today. Of these 8,700 works, there are 2,000 years of design and supervision. It's not just pus, bulldozers, trucks, euphemies. Senator. If these actions are not in the right order in the Vega program, they will be delayed, delayed, prioritized. To prepare for such procedures, a person must choose the tasks that are now being developed in order to be ready in time. So it can be said that everything we're in a move in a transport program is going to be a delay of some sort because the message from the council is not that the task is urgent and needs to be strengthened here and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u37	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It came as a surprise to me that in two minutes the minister did not mention one task that was delayed because of this per se. The government's special investment campaign adopted here as a concierge proposal made by Covid, has put 6.5 billion on transport, and leaves e.g. Since 1,860 million on road and design, there is no predictable lack of money in the design of existing issues. There is now an approved transport program, which is over 12 months of age. There is an approved Senate resolution on investment campaigns where 6.5 billion are going for transportation. Since then, the date of October 1 is up. will be put forward an investment plan in connection with contributions from financial programmes and include a substantial amount of projects that will certainly push important tasks forward. [[The president calls.]] But I'm reiterate to the highest. A minister would be willing to mention some temporary development if it were to be a case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u38	A respectable president. Hv. A senator basically answered the question for me. He said that because of a decision made here for funding and investment, certain projects were on the agenda, and he was not worried about it, and it was supposed to come in another campaign in the fall, so he did not have to worry about it. That's exactly what I was pointing at. All the challenges in a transport program in which we are in a hurry, in which we are taking back projects, from a 15-year schedule, and in the first period of time, are getting more weight in the process by an approved transport plan. And then I just have to ask, The Management Board has been under way for a very long time at the Council of Environment and Transport Committee under the board of Chairmans. Why on earth should we not complete that assignment now? Should an investment plan be set aside in the fall to receive the support of the Parliament for that assignment? Why is there no precognition at the council's work so that the road has a solid basis for building when it makes decisions about priorities and what design, construction, and distribution of the money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u39	Mr. President. The right to strike is one of the basic rights of employees. The right is given when dire circumstances arise, when treaties between employees and professionals do not continue to disappear. Sadly, the strike weapon appears to be rather private than public. Private market agreements are being driven on because of the cost of a strike while weeks and months go by without the government contracts in their struggles. In this country the government reduced negotiations until months after the failure of the collective agreements, and it seems that the government's attitude is often advising those who make contracts according to the contract agreements of employees who meet apathy and insistence on the same offer for months. Yesterday, a nurse's strike was averted when the pay force was simply shot into a court of law, thus taking the deal back. Second line, police officers, they also receive a welcome from the government. Or no. They do not even have a meeting invitation in their hearts struggle, for they have no right to strike. He was removed by law in 1986. Officers have been out of contract for another year. This score, which deals with national and national security, whether in a traditional year's journey or in a Covid state, has fallen substantially behind in its own budgets over the last few decades, with no involvement in negotiations, nothing. This is why I want to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: Why is it that governments fail to meet this prospective class, which keeps us safe, with greater respect for the discussions about its benefits? Today, there is not even a supposed obligation to preach the meetings of negotiation committees. Is it because the union cannot and cannot be legalized?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I disagree. A senator as to the fact that nothing keeps up with the discussion because I've been keeping an eye on them. Although I'd wanted to see more meetings like a boy. A senator, I know, is on only one team that has special stress payments, but that is far away. I have high hopes that these contracts can soon be concluded. When asked if the police are at the same level, of course, we reevaluate the police law, including the police law. In 1996, a strong argument was given as to why this important class would not have the strike rights. He may have been, in fact, saying that he was removed in 1986 because for his formal execution the bail was guaranteed by police officers, i.e. that pay development would be in accordance with the increases in employment markets that other government workers had obtained in their contracts. And that's what's being done to make sure that police officers are offered a rise in beat with other state workers and in the way of the biographer contract. I keep a close eye on these contracts, agree that police are a frontal class, as it has apparently been seen in the last few weeks, and must be assured that they will be paid accordingly, and I don't believe that it will soon happen. Of course it does. A senator here made a judgment, nurses are taking one point in their contracts. Policemen have that possibility, but they have expressed dissatisfaction with them because they have also taken action with them. But I have strong hopes that it will soon be possible to get together for what is left over.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u41	Mr. President. Yeah, it's on one point, stress payments. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to book 7, which is the exact amount of pressure paid by law enforcement officers for training, but under a collective agreement, the book was to be taken care of by the government at the latest in 2015. The question is, When does government intend to fulfill that law? Then I'd like to mention stress payments for the future at a Covid situation, but more part here at the council submitted our proposals in the United States to expand these payments to police officers. I'd like to hear the highest stand. Minister of Justice to do so and why this proposal was dropped and that this is based solely on stress paid by health care professionals. Finally, I would like to ask if it would be possible to meet a major decrease in income from policemen in the situation when they do not receive shift payments when they are in isolation or for the sake of communication with infected persons in their jobs. Today, another dozen policemen suffer a major loss of income because they came to work and had to be in contact with infected persons. [[The president calls.]] Is there an option on the part of the government to meet this class, both in terms of expansive stress payments and in the case of police patrols?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u42	A respectable president. The book 7 is exactly what I quoted earlier, which stands out for us. I have high hopes that there will be a way to get together on the issues that have lasted too long and in terms of even the future. the stress of weapons and other things. Regarding whether we believe that we are ready to face the same salary paid by police officers, when they are under siege or in isolation, it has been met. In line with the salary they have had during the past few months, the officers who suffer from contaminating or isolation due to their work receive full pay with shift pay. I totally believe that there is an opinion that, when police officers are as much on the front line as they are, they may be able to meet more people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u43	A respectable president. Once again, the state cannot negotiate with nurses, to go back to a court of law. Foreseeable. No police contracts, not so much in front of you. Foreseeable. Senators are getting paid up. Foreseeable. New constitution stuck in a drawer. Foreseeable. Political involvement in recruitment. Foreseeable. A respectable president. ▪ When you're the problem, there is a guide in the latest issue of The Hour. It reviews various corruption issues in recent years. That list even has its names. The Union case, the city council, the city council, the money industry, the monasteries and the ambassador's office, the National Court, the Glits, the interest papers, the legal case, the driving fees, and the money, the Panama Documents and Ministers in the tax industry, Orcs Energy and Treaties in China, the Quantum Committee and the Baldur Guðlaugsson, the Landsan and Pays, the leak case. This is not a complete list of corruption issues over the past few years. If there was something predictable about government cooperation with the Independence Party, it was a corruption case, just as it is predictable that a deal would be agreed with the public professions is little or no one. Therefore, I would like to ask the prime minister about government cooperation with the Independence Party. How can you expect anything other than what was predictable? When corruption becomes so severe, why does it always happen? As noted, why do they always do the same thing again and expect a different outcome? Why is it so desirable to join the Independence Party in power?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The book of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for the queries in which he went extensively. He said, "There are no bargains here. " Foreseeable. I've got to start by correcting a problem. A member of the Parliament, as has been negotiated with about 80% of the public servants. Very important changes have been made, which include: was signed last night by nurses who are about to transform the state's watch - working arrangement, which has to do with just the women's classes that work there. This is the largest change that has occurred in terms of these groups for decades. Was it predictable? Definitely not, by the way. Senator. Is that good? Yeah, that's great. This will change the interests of those working at public shifts, and that is good. It's good for women's classes. A raise for senators. Yeah, let's rip it up. Wait a minute, it was that government that decided to quit. That was now one of the classes of whales. At some point, a senator had to come, and it would be important to establish a new and transparent system on pay issues of the highest government. But now there's some other record, maybe it's not entirely predictable when I think of a previous language party. Senator. What we did was to change this arrangement and establish a transparent arrangement in the spirit of what happens in other parts of the North to ensure that the decision of the Council is not repeated. True, we have delayed the increase to be on July 1. Was it predictable? I don't know. I don't know what it is. A senator thinks he's predictable. Was it predictable that we were part of this government community? No, I don't think so, though. A senator says that this is where he repeats himself. This is the first time I'm in the government with these classes. I'm just looking at the results that can be achieved by a government team. I think we've been successful. I've given two examples here, and I'm pretty sure that you would. A senator didn't foresee either of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u45	A respectable president. As far as I expected, the question was not answered. So I ask again, why is it so desirable to join the Independence Party? That's what it's all about, not whether a group of left greens went into cooperation with independents before, but that's always done somehow, and the outcome is always the same. A Council was to be transparent, the law was like that. We specifically asked for the information on which a board of dressers was based because of a raise in pay at the end of the 2016 election campaign. There was no answer. The present arrangement is really not much different from it then. But I ask again, hoping that the question would be answered, "Why is it so desirable to have a power job with the Independence Party? "
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u46	Mr. President. Hv. A senator may complain that he does not get the answers he wants, but he cannot bring up here misinformation and expect them not to be answered. The false claim that the current arrangement pays the highest government officials is as if an earlier arrangement was only wrong. Senator. This arrangement is based on hard work with the labour market to create greater peace. It is based on examples from the North countries and is quite different in principle. Hv. A senator cannot surface, throw out some statements, and complain about the answers. It's about going to the government, with whoever you do it, that's about getting results in the issues you want to succeed in. To be effective in important matters for society, I am very involved in politics. I measure my progress based on the results we are achieving in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u47	V.E.G. President. There's a lot going on inside the police, a lot of good things. This has resulted in a change of man's leadership. There are new priorities, and generation distinctions are taking place within the class. Inside are young academics with new and different views. Still, we face the fact that the police have no contract. It doesn't work when you look forward to the future. We need to figure it out, and I thank the Minister for the fine answers here. There's one thing that's gonna blow a little bit. A police officer who leaves his job and starts working elsewhere in the government receives a course he has taken in pay, an accepted school course at the police school. He won't get it inside the police. So I'd like to ask a minister if he'd be willing to keep promises of stock agreements. I would also like to ask, with changing emphasis now with other people taking the lead, how we cooperate with embezzlement. What's the situation, what's the vision? How's the top? Minister of the state Marshal's office? The question is, How does the law prove true? Has the matter of humor been discussed there? According to my sources, there's a lot of confusion among the police on these issues, that they're being raised. Similarly, in view of their current discussions, I would like to ask them where they are going. If there is no immediate decision, I'd like to ask if a minister sees the point of ensuring a silly police position while she doesn't have the right to strike, e.g. with a similar connection, about intermissions, or connected to a different class.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this very much. She made a number of things about the police, and I agree that there's a lot of positive things going on inside the police. Indeed, the police authorities were working as they were supposed to, and it has worked very well as a formal field of consultation for the police officer, the governor and the district attorney to discuss the various matters. This has been the case with the collective agreement. A senator came in, but I've also talked there about the sounds. I was a special guest at the last meeting of the council. There I discussed the changes in law that I intend to take care of the police that I believe is very important, especially to keep the confidence of the country that is so important to the police. The police deserve it. The police are here, this trust has come in a long time, and I think these changes are good. I also discussed the dress business. Police officials have been offered increases in the ranks of other government workers but still have several factors to do so. It is important that a contract complete so that individual police officers can be evaluated so that they can be paid according to their experience, course, and circumstances. A senator mentions. That job's going on, and it's at the police department. I have also proclaimed specific changes to the police law, and this is precisely by the cooperation of the EICs, a point that can be better handled on national levels, where all the police authorities are involved, and what assignments we have been identifying at the State Marshals, which could be better handled by national authorities, various procedures that need to be completed, and so on. I also discussed racial law at police council, the importance of not going to racial law enforcement, but the fact that the law will always be professional, as we have seen recently. I think I've made most of the question about the police, it was more extensive, but I'll answer it later if I was forgetting something.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for going fast and sure to cross this huge seminary party. Police are one of the basics of society, immensely important, and we have the privilege here that we have confidence in the police. We'll go to the police when we're in trouble and we'll get some help. This is not the case in other countries. This is extremely important to us. But so that we can keep people in this class, all these interested, young, well- educated people who are coming in right now and who are a real boost to the police, they have to be secure. So I just want to reiterate this and encourage the Minister to follow through on it. I'd like to know if she can see the end of this, whether this is going to be further and make men wait a little longer. It's not acceptable for anyone, either for the people who work in the police department or for the rest of us who enjoy their service.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u50	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. Of course, I understand when a discussion is long - term, that unions, like police, would be able to help people get to the table better. However, I hope that this will not be necessary and not be necessary. Of course, we know what the police are like. A senator went over, an important organization that plays a role in security, and it was looked forward to when the strike court was removed, perhaps more in word than at the table. I agree that if we don't get caught up and we don't see the results of negotiating the existing or general stress payments, we'll have to look at other solutions, whether they're new connections or just new thinking about how we're going to make deals permanently with the police so that everyone can get along. I think it's important that negotiations be made as soon as possible, hope that they can. Of course, the overall picture and limitation of contracts with other government workers must be watched.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u51	President. This is where we continue to discuss the two transport plans. It's a huge deal. That was interesting, though, as I listened for answers from the highest level. Minister in unprepared queries class earlier. He emphasized that even if this matter does not stick a little, the next task in time will get ahead. Those things don't fall apart. It was actually confirmed earlier, especially since it has been found and accepted at least 15 billion design and continuation of these projects. Thus, transport plans will not be stopped if there is a slight delay here at the council. But, of course, it is important for us to finish this, and we will try to do so within the appointed time, leaving behind the Senate work. There have been no great number of government speeches here, unfortunately. The most interesting of these talks, however, must have occurred since then. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen there. In the past few years, a senator significantly covered the headquarters of the capital area because of the city's emphasis particularly on public transportation and money put into them on the side of the State rather than on practical projects to facilitate the transport of capital citizens. Everything must be together, Mr. President. It must be combined that we have public transportation that is useful to those they need to use and to use and to pay a way for those who need and who want to use their private car. It's been a little special looking at the mayor's share in the past few years, especially, who has wanted to take counsel from people about how they travel from one place to another in the capital area. He has tried to get people to go to buses or to use public transportation by pressing on the private vehicle instead of drawing up the image of public transportation, positive use, time savings, savings of not having to own a car, etc. It's been missing a positive image of public transportation. I think it would have been better, Mr. President, to teach people how to use the bus, to make good use of it, and possibly to improve the frequency before the major investments expected in this transport plan and related issues. It's consistent with that. thSthurdur Á. Andersen said in his speech, it would be at the wrong end. Hv. A senator spoke of this so - called city line as an unexplained phenomenon. Of course, there is a certain point where many images have been drawn up by this one. The latest is that several politicians, both in the city and here at the council, have agreed that a train system should be adopted. I just think it's just to confuse the discussion with being talking all of a sudden about picking up a train system on a city line or whether it's part of a city line. There is no point in causing the matter to become even more complicated. Anyway. There is no dispute that there must be a powerful public transportation in the capital area. That is not the issue; nor is the basis for the State's commitments. Of course, we can disagree on the route, whether it's a city line or improving the bus. But in the setting of the State Fund is left behind, that may be the case, or on the other hand, many questions remain regarding the commitments and responsibilities of the state's funds. I hope that soon there will be certain explanations and speculations as to how this case can develop and in any direction that we will be able to look to see to it how the setting should be. I'd like a president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u52	Mr. President. We still discuss two transport plans, five years of age, and fifteen years of age. I'll turn in a minority article about the plan with a bang. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. It is mostly two things that we make comments about. We agree with the main agenda and with the increased transport budget over the next year and years, but we make comments on the contribution to the city line, the part of the capital contract that has to do with it. We comment that in the next 15 years, countries and rural groups are planning to spend less than 50 billion on that project. We also make comments on the implementation of roads. We have noted that the implementation of roads is inexplicable in view of the three administrative matters that are held at the council, the transport program, the cooperation of work, and the land tunnel. It explains the distribution of road costs in three different ways, so it is in great fog as to what governments intend to do in exchange for road transport. We make comments that this is the way it is presented, i.e. in three politics, which are submitted at the same time with different implementations, instead of offering one bill so we can discuss the whole thing, so it's not so fragile. I've considered it in my previous speeches how it's done. We feel that unless a government promise comes to the fore that there will be no extra penalty on car owners, those who drive the road. If a tax price is laid on the price of other car owners, we will be reduced accordingly, that is, in the minority's opinion. With regard to the city line, we have made comments that there is a large amount of money being spent from a joint fund and from a community in an idea that is badly developed. No high cost plan exists, it is based on a kind of dream about the future. We've seen this happen before. In 2011 the dream was to increase the share of public transportation, 4%, in the capital area. It was supposed to be increased by half. After the Kingdom has contributed billions of dollars to promote it, the result is virtually no one in nine years. We do not want to be involved in building these throwers, believing that this is to be more reasoned and calculated. These ideas need to be developed more systematically than ever before. I have quoted an article by a Þórarinn Hjaltason in my talks, who argues that the setting on the city line is in a way that might be compared to propaganda. In his article, he gives us many examples of this. It is not acceptable, Mr. President, to win an idea that costs so much money from the public's pocket, following propaganda. Of course, that is not acceptable at all, and we at the Central Party protest and demand that the idea be developed much better before we proceed this way. And it is not as if you didn't destroy the street and replace it with a city line. No, it is an additional system installed on a public car system that is already here in the capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u53	A respectable president. I would like to include briefly on points that have been presented in the discussion so far and try to draw up and highlight to some extent the ill effects of this entire matter being worked out. First, I'd like to say that after two days, on Wednesday, the conclusion will be made about how the city's shelter will be designed, how the seats will be designed. It will be announced in two days, but there is no schedule for the whole project. The seats have been designed, the stickers may have been designed inside the waiting clouds, but there is no schedule for the project. They're working all of this in the wrong order, like a dog. paritaprevir Karl Hjaltason undatisfied in a talk quoted earlier. Of course, the design of chairs in the waiting clouds is crystallining before the whole project has been established, for activities of tens and even 100 or more billion in construction. Then, at the beginning of a business, it will cost countless billions for a long time, one day on the basis of what we see today. I wanted to say this in the beginning just to stress that this whole city line is being won in reverse. Next time I'd like to come in, I know why. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, who has been called the prosthesis of the government, is in a house, so he acts here and reacts to him as he thinks I'm unfair about his progress -- that at the last time when the matter was being discussed, he held some of the most complete and complete speeches I've ever heard about this matter. There's only two things in those talks that I want to come in at this point. On one hand, the other held. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé says that there is a whole discussion of misunderstandings. It would now be a matter of speech that should be discussed in the next case, the city line. Then we would be in the Central Party to discuss a case that should be discussed in the second language, called the PPP project, the co-work procedure. This is exactly the way for those who do not have a good cause to come through, i.e. use what has sometimes been called the samurai method, to bring in one point at a time with reference to the fact that it is all based on misunderstandings and is being focus on the wrong things, and then achieves a chicken step by step and ultimately ensures that the overall goal will be achieved. Of course, all of these matters, the PPP co-operation projects, the ohf. pathway through the establishment of a community on the city line project, are closely linked to the transport program. It's completely different from the representatives of the left green on the environment and transport committee, huh? paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, to say otherwise. I reiterate that this is more of the same thing that we've seen so far in this government, the samurai method is used by all the means available to further matters. It takes a little bit of time, but next time I'd like to come to the top point of my view. Secretary of transportation Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. The minister was in the front line at St. Cave 2 yesterday, where I think it's the highest. Four times a minister said that he did not believe that any senator was going to prevent the development of a transport program as it is now, stopping countless projects that would move to the community in which there was a great need for them. I asked the highest. Ministers in unsubstantiated inquiries probably 20 minutes ago or half an hour ago who these projects would be that would be delayed if the transport program was not completed now. I didn't even ask him, twice I asked who the projects were that would be delayed. V.E.G. A minister did not specify together one task. Of course, there is a transport program that was approved just over 12 months ago. All talk is that it is a legal obligation to the Generals to agree with this plan is based on misunderstanding. This is no doubt part of the groundwork that goes on trying to frame the view that the city line is not to be talked about, since the fact is that material debates over the city line have been very low. That's why people all over town are now waking up to a bad dream and saying, "What? " Is it true that roads are to be taken from the current city - line road system? I think it would be closer to the end of August, just before school starts in the fall, that the city's workers would go out with a small amount of traffic cables and close those roads that are going to be placed under the city line. Only then will they feel the condition of the family car when a part of the current city - line traffic will be taken. We've got to stop being showy. Not only will it cost us enormous sums of money but it will cost us a lot of time, a lot of irritability, a lot of delays, an impossible delays in driving. As a member of the council, we cannot afford to ignore it as if it were nothing, as if it were something else. That's not acceptable. I would also like to briefly introduce Reykjavík's view of the urban part of the transport contract. There is no doubt that the city of Reykjavík has for many years, ideal times, done everything within its power to squeeze the family car. It has simply been used in the book to squeeze, slow down, make life for drivers as much as possible to force people to use public transportation. As we all know, no progress has been made, no one, in raising the percentage of lost transportation by public transportation despite setting up that billion a year for nearly ten years. After two days, they will be set up at the ossuary, where the seats for passengers will be shown when they wait for the city line, in two days, they will be exposed. At the same time as there is nothing available about the operation of these devices and all plans for the cost of living are on as weak ground as it really is. It is our duty to discuss this matter seriously and with depth. I am very disappointed to see how small parts of the management team who pretend to speak for the city line take on the discussion. But I would especially like to point to an excellent debate. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen, who was brought here some days ago, and most amateurs about these matters should check it up on the Generals' website and study. There I think, and it is reflected in an article of Independence in the Morning Press this morning, lying down the viewpoint of the city's chief independents who have grown weary of the violence that the city has shown against family cars, as I said before, all the ways that have been able to squeeze him in traffic. The city line can be called nothing more than a ransom. It is a ransom that the State is paying to build up on the capital's founding system. The root - track system has been held hostage for over ten years now, including ... withthePresidentPresident. The way out of this hostage is not that the city becomes a stand, allowing important projects, such as the misdirected corners of the Basis Way and the Smokey Ways into an organization. No, that's not the way. The way is to spend 50 billion dollars in an unpublished idea of a city line, 50 billion. This is an amazing figure that a large number of senators seem to be willing to swallow without so much to discuss.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u54	Mr. President. During this discussion, we have been able to talk about the importance of it and the need to discuss carefully the two plans presented here. There have also been some comments in the talks of some of those who have mentioned that the Independence Party does not speak of the policy plans, especially when it comes to the project that basically overrides both plans, i.e. A city line plan. It is a story that says that in the Morning Press today an article by the Eyþór Arnaldur, which is the point of the provincial Independence Party, and the paper also points to a blog for a fine engineer, Geir Ágústsson. The prudent person says that politicians are primarily in the pursuit of endless routes that are primarily about slowing down the family car and wasting time in traffic traffic, or waiting for shelters in wind and rain. Geir says, with the permission of the President: For example, it may be suggested that you place three - letter - of - billions - in the construction of railroads and place them on train cars. During the time when the city line thought was sold to voters, in fact, a smaller part of the voters in Reykjavík, advertisements were thought to be involved. But, of course, it was not. Geir here says by permission of the President: ▪ People are already working on the plans to put giant buses on streets and push the family car into fewer lanes. He also mentions the concept of the trolley, a small train that was present and was still still born, and having the buses stop the traffic as they park on the bus. This fine engineer marvels at this. I mentioned two of these in a speech last time when we discussed this matter; the other was that, after it was tight, the way it is that when buses have to pick up people or passengers go out, all traffic stops. And, on the other hand, it is at Hague Square, which is called the morning, while some of the mayor's section have chosen to call it a round drive. I don't know exactly, Mr. President, what's the difference between a round drive and a phone morning? But yes, it was in order to put a bus stop on the phone morning. If you drive along a bus that stops in front of the Hotel History, you'll be stopping in the morning and no one will get by. It seems that the city line is supposed to be an enormous version of buses. If the wagons may be doubled to the length of those used today in Reykjavík, I can see how such a wagon stops round Hagah Square. So it is not surprising that President Geir Ágústsson, a engineer, would hatch with these words, with the permission of a president: So I would like to suggest that the authorities take a serious look at the benefits of promoting the use of carriages. They do not pollute, use all kinds of roads, ensure that passengers receive a lot of fresh air, and are relatively inexpensive to produce a mass product that can be used in environmental timbers. So many were words. Mr. President. Since I haven't considered this subject, I have to pray to the highest degree. I'm the president of re-exposed to be re-invented.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u55	Mr. President. I think it's right to reiterate what we've said, and I have even. stated in a committee study, on the authority to establish the official transport development community in the capital area, a special bill we will discuss here. The central category has particularly rejoiced that modern light - control systems in the capital area, initiatives in building pathways, and planned structure of cycle paths and other environmental transport methods, such as walking road users. However, we cannot agree with the planning for building a city line, and we have made that clear. Clearly, it is necessary to keep in mind that this matter is primarily missed when we have been discussing a road program. It's just that there's so much uncertainty about this city linework. There is uncertainty about the organization, the construction, business and financing. Hence, it is inconceivable to place tens of billions of dollars in the part of the city project. And we've already pointed out here that there is not even a management plan. It is also unclear how the construction of a city line generally occurs here in the capital area. In this regard, it is interesting to consider what scholars say about these matters and to quote from the New York City road manager Samuel Schwartz. He claims that a new public transportation system, and I now state that he is an expert in this field, is not built up but is taking into account the environment in which they live. And in what setting is Reykjavíkurburg? Yes, it is primarily a private car that has been the dominant road of transportation in the capital area and in the streets, and footways have been designed to do so. It is easier said than done to put such a system into a structure not designed in the first place. It is important to bear in mind. It is clear that motorists who are designed for automobiles have to step aside to set up a city line. This will naturally mean that those who drive vehicles pay for it, I think it is quite clear, and then likely with delays and such. It is also totally clear that no one can be forced to use public transportation. Nor can anyone be forced to ride a bicycle in a position. Because an increasing number of automobiles call for increased traffic distances, it is necessary to work at the tracks, the miscreatures. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason was doing well in the process of agreeing to simply reduce these projects and to turn to the bus system, which has made traffic in Reykjavík the way it is now. There are delays at stress points because nothing has been achieved in the root system, indiscriminate interfaces, etc. They believed that they could increase the share of bus users. But this failed, and just having to face it, people must learn from it and look into it when discussing a city line. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I see time goes by fast, and I would like to be put back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u56	Mr. President. It's hard times, it's a job theme, as the poet's poem says. We're dealing with the worst economic crisis in memory with a projection rate of 10%. Much of the country's currency has been screwed, and it is only for the special reasons that the Crown's gang has left behind, with the consequences for the price. Unemployment levels are unknown. Over the years, it will take us to repair the damage we have suffered. Mr. President. We face a great need for construction in the country because of any kind of infrastructure. Run in it for hundreds of billions. In the capital, a so - called construction stop has led to serious consequences from traffic jams, a lack of safety in traffic traffic, and the escape of companies from the city. That is in those circumstances, Mr. President, which the government now decides to set up 50 billion dollars. in a so-called city line. I don't need to review it as thoroughly as we've considered it here, members of the Central Party, how strongly the idea has been objected to by scholars and other experts and professionals. For example, a specialist engineer in the field of traffic says that improvements in public transportation can be achieved by spending on the project several billion, as he put it, word for word, president, instead of tens of billions of dollars that no doubt amounted to money. This specialist has not answered too much. No one here has anyone on this matter explained why this diagnosis and the conclusion of this scholar cannot be fulfilled. It is based on the analysis that the area that takes up the city line in the programmes listed above includes that more than half of the city's city line is in special space. He points to role models in the United States and Canada, where this ratio is much lower and especially applies to small cities, as would be true in the case of Reykjavík. Mr. President. This case is so out of the question, and I'm going to say it here that it's not going to happen in a few cases. The middle party will never be able to make more money to the extent it has set down here. There are no reliable budgets available for costs. There are no reliable plans for reasons that could cause variation from an expense strategy. Business analysis is not a matter of chess. It is too sensitive to say it, but, of course, it will disturb very other traffic, because this will simply take another lane from the traffic where it is to be distributed. It has been shown that a management plan is not available. The independent party is split up. [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the highest. Mr President, putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u57	A respectable president. We're still discussing the transport issues here, and maybe we don't need to. We see that new information or speculation is involved in the matter of concern. This morning's morning paper contains an article by the odd sense of the Independence Party in the city of Reykjavík, Eyþór Arnaldur, where he will handle the matter well and clearly recognize where he is in this matter, which, of course, is on the side of the city, i.e. The citizens. In this article, he warns that Reykjavík's debt will be covered on a adventure project like this, which we will discuss in particular, although it is far from the fact that members of the council who have been involved in this discussion have been discussing only the city line. Other matters have also been discussed, but this may be the largest investment discussed in the transport program. We can also ask ourselves, " How is it that no candidate makes a cough sound? ' Is the development of transport - as secretary of transportation, the head of the Agency's forwards, of course, responsible, even though it has made significant changes in the management of the Committee - its modeling for the city line? However, there is one member of the Independence Party who was the city council member who was involved in this project, while the forward squad seems completely cuckooded and wholeheartedly supported it. That's interesting because there's nothing so long ago, if I remember correctly, that the party was against going on this great adventure. Granted, humans may change their mind and perhaps nothing at all. But this is quite a swing. I gave a fine talk before. paritaprevir Sigríður on. Andersen and the word used by the senator. The Senator, like many of us who have spoken here with caution about this urban project, has, of course, been concerned that limited funds are available to implement. Hv. paritaprevir In his speech, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzekiz came in handy that we are now in a great downturn, and we are in debt to the state's fund. Of course, many people say that it is right to take action when it comes to relaxation. But this is much more relaxed, it's a collapse of our economic situation today, and we need to use our power of reason to get out of that situation again, and this project is expensive. Let me give you two things that are important in all of that. That is, first of all, that we should look at it - and must be done now in connection with budgetary and financial programs that are being worked on and finance - to cut down the budget. There really is nothing else, even though only stopping the enlargement, which is almost automatic. Second, we will need to focus and look closely at every plan for the future. This is not being done in connection with this transport plan and what is turning toward the city line in it. It is not known to be particularly careful with the future commitments of state funds where plans are not available, commitments are vague, responsibility is very vague, since, for example, it is not completely clear. how possible responsibilities will be divided when the company is divided up, which is also mentioned in the Committee of the transport programmes. There's a lot of questions that don't go as fast as you can. paritaprevir Andersen gives a fine speech, with the permission of a president: Then it is of great importance that the limited money available here should come to Reykjavík, and I highlight it, in order to remedy the situation of transport here, and to be given in a reasonable and practical direction. There she speaks of the discrepancies that have been mentioned, and we will, of course, come on at a later time. V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u58	V.E.G. President. In my speech earlier this morning, I spoke a lot about transportation in the country, and I want to continue to do so because a man is frustrated by many things, especially in the reviews, which seem to have failed. A transport committee has done as good as possible in many matters. Here, I have a review of the Association, and I would like to discuss what is said about transport in connection with a planned tunnel on the East Coast. And I would like to read from it, with permission of the highest. President: ▪ Although winter isolation is short enough to be broken by tunnels and that, as soon as it is carried out, it seems quite well planned for a transport plan of some 13.4 miles [1.4 km] under Fjordur as the main option for solving this problem. Walk that way could only be useful, at least to begin with, those who would have to go between Sufjörður and the Shire. A report published by the Department of Transport and Division of Transport in June 2019, entitled 'Environcies and Impacts on Eastern Europe's Environment, gives some comments on the advantages that are considered to be available and use the Source of Sufficiency and the probable total of the Middle East. - Then this goes on, and if I grab the alternative, it'll be an advantage. Option 2: A tunnel under the River of Fjord, along with a tunnel to the ground of Snow and from there to the North. Option 3: Landways between Sufjörður and Snowland, one under the Moe of the Earth and the Shire, and the third between Snowfjords and North. Option 4: Landways between Sufjörður and Snowland and the rest between Snowfjords and the Shire. According to the report, the cost of each mile of tunnel at an average of 2,500 million can be estimated. But the expense of a Fjordian tunnel, which would be of 13.4 miles, said before, would be about thirty and five thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand and five hundred thousand. So it appears to be one of the most expensive daisies in Iceland [...] Some wonder, however, that the report does not suggest the possibility of having a first-line tunnel between Sufjörður and Northland through the Earth, while the cost of two tunnels between the South Coast and the Snow Earth (5.5 km) and Snowfjords (6.8 km) is estimated in the report to be 30,800 billion times. In other words, 3 billion is less expensive than a Fjordian tunnel. What I'm going to take out of this is that the secretary of transportation has already said that there is going to be a Funeral Passage. When I was traveling in the East, along with my companions in the winter, I thought it would be quite right, but there wasn't any difference between the distance and the Shire. As I read in the report, others were found to be superior. I think it's a responsibility at the highest. A minister not to work this case better and to bring the people of the East into agreement with the decision but to leave the case in the arms of the local people so that they begin to argue among themselves as to what is best. Then nothing's going to happen. It's just that way, it's nothing. The required coin will not be used in this and the matter will be delayed. It seems to me that this is a bit urgent in various matters that I read about in connection with a transport program. They are unworked, and they are not at peace with those who are next to the work to be done. V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u59	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss the construction stop in the capital area. As the citizens of the area and other visitors gathered here know, there has been little progress in helping traffic in the capital areas of the past few years and even decades. Why would that be? Because it was a conscious decision. The mayor's decision in Reykjavík was made to make an effort to increase the share of the public transport in the area and the state leaped onto that bus and put a considerable amount of money on that experiment. This was under attack in 2011 when the State agreed to contribute 1 billion a year to promote public transportation. Perhaps it was worth the experiment at the time. But today, in the face of the results, everyone involved is finding out that the money was wasted because the object of public transportation has not increased and the inhabitants of the capital area and other visitors have not chosen to use public transportation now anything more than ten years ago. During this experiment, construction stop took place in the capital area. So no other major projects were to be carried out during this period. This has really been the case with the citizens of the capital area during the past few years in a way that they have every morning, and each afternoon was stopped on the road to and from working in long seriess of cars during this experiment that failed. The appeal of the misdirected crossroads and bridgeing of founding courses in the capital area has not been made because of the dream that public transportation would have become more important than the case in the capital area. But that's not enough, Mr. President. Now, the dream factory is going to maintain this dream because there have been ideas of a special line for public transportation, a city line that no one really knows exactly how to finance, how to finance, and how to use it, or how to run it, because the dream factory makes dreams, not realistic plans. We in the Middle East have objected to such tactics, thinking that we've had enough. This experiment is over, and we're gonna stop. We feel that the construction stop that has been here in the capital area all for trouble, including the neighbors'communities, is unacceptable. We feel that we do not contribute, as is desired, to most except the more part of Reykjavík, to improve transport in the area, instead of going on an over-developed project that costs tens of billions of taxes, and unsatisfying that the government would normally allow himself to lay down in this urban line, only, apparently, Mr. President, to pay a ransom in order to start the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u60	Mr. President. During my final talk, I discussed important projects in Reykjavíkurburg at the footways and misdirections, projects that pay much attention to traffic traffic flows, just because people have had some superfaith that could increase the number of people taking the bus, and simply direct it so that most people take the bus. In fact, however, there has been another. It just hasn't worked. Despite the many cost - making attempts so many billion dollars to try to increase the number of people who take buses, they have not yet walked by and so that about 4% of the city's population use the buses. To plan on implementing the new type of bus transport, which is a city line, with this most farest and the attempts made to increase the number of streets and miscommunications, are simply inexplicable. The cards contain a substantial amount of money that divides tens of billions. The budget has to be set out about 50 billion in this agreement, and it is clear that this amount will increase by at least One billion. It's not fatal in our opinion, at least. In the middle row, going this way. We have quoted various organizational and traffic experts who have responded. Their case is that it is only wishful thinking to suggest that the number of passengers on the bus can be four or four in the year 2040. Most of the people who have dealt with this group see that this goal will never be achieved. It's never gonna get caught. First, in recent years, only a few percent of passengers have been able to increase at high cost. Second, after the 2008 collapse, a crisis in society reduced the automobile traffic. But with the economy growing numbers of automobiles growing again, and automobile traffic is increasing, which simply calls for more scenarios. I traced it earlier in my speech, e.g. The New York City road manager, Sam Schwartz, who is an expert in this field, and now there's a lot of traffic, but it claims that the new non-based public transport systems take into account the environment in which they live. It is only very difficult to bring a new transport system into society, traffic culture, and organization where it is not expected from the beginning. We'll see that there are other roads to set up the city line. People's possessions are to be dealt with, derailed near the inhabited earth where such things have not been before, and sent in by individuals, and strongly contradicted. So it has to be said that, at first, this city line will create an inevitable environment, which I think is clear, except for the enormous cost I mentioned earlier. Mr. President. I see my time is running out, and I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u61	Thank you for the President. This has merely been saying that the debate here is irreprehensible, unnecessary, and based on some ignorance. Mr. President, this morning on a radio show, there were two dogs. Every member of the political party is aggressor. paritaprevir Will Árnason and what? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson They said something about the need for those who discuss this matter most, which is likely to be at ease. Central Party Parliaments discussed the matter with minimal knowledge, which was primarily a city line. I, and probably more of us, would have liked to have a place to speak with these two guys. Councilmen, our alleged inadequacy, and our lack of knowledge in this case. You must expect people who go on the radio and tell the people such news as they did this morning to find their words in a conversation with us that was clearly meant, or that would otherwise be meaningless. It is very cheap, Mr. President, to appear somewhere where the opponent is not a response and to say that he lacks skills, that he is not on the right side of the discussion, that he is drawing wrong conclusions, etc., that the results are not correct and so. So it is my earnest wish that these two fine senators, and even more, come to our discussion and direct the members of the Central Party to where we are going, no matter how little it is that we know and correct them and educate us. If I recall correctly, there was one of the chief independent party's specialists in transport in the capital area, hm. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, in answer to the very beginning of this discussion. I've asked her twice, if not more often, what a city line is. She answered me along the way that the line of the city was running even. in which red drags were drawn through the city to pay for public transportation through city lines. It would have been good if it hadn't. A senator, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, would have come to our discussion and informed us further because I would like to, for example. To know, where will the red carpet be laid on Hófisgata? Where's room for extra lanes, red carpet, on Waffles Avenue? It has been shown in the program to this city line, and perhaps the first thing you see on a hand, is that these super cars, which are probably the size of two regular buses, are supposed to go through Hoffi's Street, as well as Savile Street and Scotland Road. I'm gonna ask you again, where's the room for a red carpet on Scotland Road? Do you want to double the bridge over the Seven? What are we going to do? Are they going to go to the conquests and fill in the Seven to set up the city line? All of this must be revealed, Mr. President. You have to answer. It is not enough to go on either the radio or anyone else, arguing that those who discuss this matter have a lack of knowledge that they do not know where they are going, that they are drawing wrong conclusions. Mr. President, it can't be done that such a case can be maintained unless someone finds him a place. Unfortunately, I have finished my appointment and asked the president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u62	Mr. President. In my earlier talk today, in the shortest of matters, I discussed the difficult conditions we face in economic and commercial matters at present. I mentioned a decrease in production predicted to be significant. I mentioned what is obvious, that the country's currency is naturally greatly intertwined when tourism is on its knees. I could say that it was for a special reason that the crown's gang had yielded no more than would be expected in view of the massive infringement that has occurred in the currency stream, with the consequences to the price. There is also reason to mention that this has resulted in a changed state of state funds. I must say, Mr. President, that some kind of denial of facts seems to be in charge here when a response to these situations should be 50 billion from the state fund in a so-called city line. A city line is a freak, so I use a word like that. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen made repeated use of his talk, which, of course, was very interesting in this discussion. In fact, I allow myself to say that it would be completely incomprehensible if she would vote for the case compared with the way it dealt with it. If we look over the scene, it is clear that the Independence Party is not a matter of completeness. It shows why. A member of the Independence Party, to form what former president and prime minister, now editor of the Morning Press, has discussed the subject, now last in an editorial today, and how Björn Bjarnason, a former member of the Party and Minister, has dealt with it on his wide - read blog. There is an indistinguishable point in this matter: Do not drag the Feltland into it. What's the connection between Köldnaland and the so-called city line, Mr. President? Its country is the most valuable land the country has in this capital area, about 80 acres [30 ha] if I know it. It is in a very important location in the capital area. This country has been mentioned in the context of a possible national hospital looking into the future. And it's amazing to think, Mr. President, to bring this country into a case, so neglected. Why do I say "approached," Mr. President? Where's the cost plan? Where are costs affected? Where is the interest analysis? Where's the city line management plan? Who's going to have the cost? It comes after man, with expertise and knowledge and experience in these areas, and contradicts this plan. So it's very peculiar. The media will never agree to this level of money. The media will never agree that the government's property is thus forged, to be thrown into this bottomless pit. Mr. President. I'm asking to be put on the rosary one more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u63	Mr. President. I'm feeling very sad and angry. This morning, that happened at the moment. The legal committee said that the greater part took office authority at the presidency I wanted to put in my support of the money taken out there. The majority are thus going contrary to what has recently been practiced here. I have to say, I think it's pretty hard that the more part can't bear minor opinion or a warning to support the case, but it's really going to dictate my answer to the matter. Mr. President, this is absolutely few to hear, and not present.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u64	Mr. President. I'm going to say the last words of a speaker. I'm also on the budget board. I am truly concerned with the way the greater part is being carried out in various committees of the council. Of course, it's incredibly peculiar, if you pause and think about what happened, that there's some debate on the budget to see if the representatives of the greater part agree with the court's court order of the Committee. In fact, the discussion was so stupid that it was discussed as to whether the defense was too political. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] When this government speaks, what route does it take? Of course, political warnings are clear, of course, what we say is political. I feel that this is another form of disrespect shown to the council over and over again, whether it is this or the delinquency of a welfare committee or other committees, or that all the suggestions that the lesser part puts forward here, despite all suspicions that should be furthered by the council, contribute to the less part. [[The president calls.]] I can't see it happening, and I'm tired of it, especially since it's only a year until the next election. [[The president calls.]] Time is simply running out, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u65	Mr. President. We've seen it here in spring that much of it is having trouble getting people together on a case, and unity is not achieved in committees. When that is the case, the other members of the body screw up by writing out the words of other members of Congress. I think the President did a good job of putting a representative of the budget board in the hands of a copy of the Honorable Councilman who has a court order in his office. If a member of the committee is writing on a short notice, it is reasonable that he will briefly acknowledge what is involved in his warning. It's politics. It is a material discussion. In fact, in the Honorable senator, there are three possible reasons for their decision. They're all political. All of these are so that while a senator can break his show of pride and support for the overall interests of others, he can have serious doubts about certain aspects of the subject, and he should be able to say. This includes his freedom of speech in this hall, his ability to express his opinion in the records of the council, and most of the council does not have the right to the right to the right to the freedom of other members of Congress. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u66	V.E.G. President. I guess I've been here 11 years, something like that, but I never remember hearing of that sort of thing. Much of the committee takes on to write and direct it as a supporters of the same great section of writing or suggest. I don't think it's possible, Mr. President, that the greater part is beginning to make sense. A senator who, although on notice, intends to sign the majority of the section's opinion. What, then, is more important if a person is not to promote his views, if he is not to list what he or she thinks is good or bad, what might have been done, or what he has suggested? What is the point of offering advance attention to the case? Isn't this more than one evidence that this government, her members of committees, has decided to go their own way: let the smaller part be, he's just in the way, to the end. Let's get this over with and get it over with with with violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u67	Mr. President. The government's policy is constantly taking on new manifestations. But this one's more than new. It's original. It's kind of gotta be said right now. We've been living with it now since the council came together, and kind of during the case of Covid, that the matter was being settled, and it wasn't exactly required, but it was a request for solidarity. This has been accomplished, and one way to help a body of Congress to come together was to keep the written warnings longer than has been written, in effect, in order to encourage people to show this spirit. It may well be that the administrative part has the opinion that budget three or four or whatever is now, is not connected to Covid. So I disagree. I think he's very Covid-related, so if anything, this should especially be under here. My point is that this transition, this long warning one, has also been in other matters that are not connected to Covid. But written warnings, longer than usual, shorter than most of those who have seen daylight in these days, where it is commonhv. þm. Jón Valdímsson, on the other hand, reviews how different he seems to have been, and why he is involved, he is censored. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's original.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u68	A respectable president. If it wasn't that serious, you could watch the case with them wearing glasses that, of course, it's also sickly funny. We just got back from the conversation about whether politics belongs in the science magazines. Now this conversation is being extended: Political is no longer part of the General Assembly. Congress officials do not have to give political notice, and they must not frame their political position on certain matters, even though they take the greater part of the matter. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son; these are originals, that must be said. However, in the same way, it's serious, and I remind you that a premanager is also a specific solution, which explains in what way the senator supported the greater section, which was clearly not sufficiently strong enough support, in the opinion of the greater part, and in what doubts he had in mind. So I'm going to stick to a good word. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson, that's original, but it's funny original.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u69	Mr. President. I have to admit, I don't quite understand what this more important thing's all about. If the voice of the minority of the committee is not being choked and it is simply to prevent our emphasis and opinions from being expressed at work on the committee by putting aside a committee issue without discussion, then we are being censored when we want to express ourselves politically. Yeah, you can see the humor in it, but I feel like we're in a pretty dangerous place. What's the rest of the thing afraid of? Because I can't read the position differently, so that the more part is just terribly afraid of the freedom of speech and the expression of the smaller part and criticize the discussion of the lesser part when it comes to politics more. There's a bit of a serious situation if you want to choke her down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u70	Mr. President. I think it matters to you that this is, of course, a majority of the committees that put their names under. The nature of the matter, then, has been discussed in the majority of the articles on what should be included in that committee. The general procedure is that of an officer on the committee, such as why. paritaprevir In this case, Jón Valdimarsson has been able to accept a majority opinion if he has chosen to do so. I think we're here on a bit of unconvinced countries where the People really don't comment on how these matters are going to be handled. Of course, it is something special if the members of the committee are included on a committee program but are actually using words and suggestions that go far beyond what is being done in the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u71	Mr. President. Note the words of a senator left green: Walk further, down to the top of the ice. Congress is allowing for written warnings. That's clear. What's peculiar is that the more part, the better part, the better. A member of this committee has special opinions on the contents of the company's company. It's strange. A representative of the projection is not censoring what appears in the committee's list of branches. He is wishing that he could set the standard and example in writing on the committee's opinion. I especially call attention to the fact that an informed senator is an officer in the hearing. He doesn't have the right to bring a special commission like I do, so this is his only way to make a written statement. You want to take it away because you disagree with the contents of the company. If anyone's at the top of the ice, it's members of the Left Green, the Future Party and the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u72	A respectable president. This is a little strange, because so far we've been able to be on notice without specifically explaining him in a committee party. Today, people have been encouraged to analyze the material things they are about to take into account. So far, it has been possible to make an account of him in a talk that would likely be quite the same materially. In fact, there is no difference between making an advance in speaking and in writing, but we have now been asked to write about this. Thus, because it is the new task, the committee must be put in a material way. I also find it interesting that we're here to talk about an agent because there's a little problem in this because it's a little bit of an audience because he's supposed to have full freedom of speech under the staff board, and inside it should be much more in my opinion, the right to give both credit and make books, etc., in fact, all but favors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u73	Mr. President. It is certainly honorable by reason of reason. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, senator of VG, representing the state and party of the budget to come up here and try to make an additional effort for this matter. But there must be a claim that the rescue mission is basically more original than what was supposed to be saved. Here we go. A senator, speaking of the explanation, is that it is, in effect, a matter of opinion, whether an audience officer should have written warnings and that is the reason. Let us be absolutely clear that this is not the reason why the greater part was not rejecting the written advance of public officer Jón Steindór Valdimarsson. The major part was that the editor of the warning, made a material suggestion, returned it, and said: "This is the way you can do it. That's what it's all about, and I'll be waiting for my next opening vow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u74	Mr. President. It's a peculiar matter. In the warning that the committee was not granted, there is a talk that suggestions do not go far enough. It also shows that I know how to support the changes made. I don't think the other part would like to be said in my warning opinion on the committee: The changes that have been made from the original bill are recognition of the requisition of further contributions to innovation, which are added to 200 million to the New World Fund of employment due to the so-called Sturdy Crea. In addition, contributions to travel responsibilities are offered on the basis of package travel. There is a journey that the restoration has foretold. There I am, in effect, commending the committee for listening to the reasonable presentation she makes, but the committee wants to censor these sentences from the ahead. What's all this stupid shit about?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u75	Mr. President. I don't know how others are. Councilmen present their politicians, of course not, men standing by their words. But I also want to stand by my words, and I believe that more of the people who sign the committee must be able to stand behind what is in it. I think it's important that we follow the rules here regarding the strength of Congress to form, which refers to an officer's being able to approve if he chooses, a committee's more involved. It has been customary that when members of the Parliament have had a special opinion, they bring in a minority list. In this case it is not possible, and in my mind it is about form, that an officer of the hearing can describe himself as an approved member of the committee if he chooses to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u76	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying things with a what. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson of the changes in the New Creation Fund and the Kría's proposed proposals. It was certainly his initiative and presentation on the committee that the adjustment proposals have come. In view of the fact that an officer's office cannot actually put out its written notice: It is half right, in that the committee may allow an officer to book or to agree with a committee party. If the more part is going to start saying no, it's very interesting because, after all, if an audience is allowed to agree in advance, he should, of course, be able to make a written account of them as all other members are asked to do. [[The president calls.]] So the question is, Will the greater part deny to an officer that he is in advance and sign the committee's opinion or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u77	President. I'm here to read from the Honorable Councilman, by permission of the President: Then, without wanting to compromise, a member of the committee may have doubts about the matter. Third, a member of the committee may intend to contribute or support adjustments in the case that the greater part is not involved. It is not unique if the members of the committee are included on a committee party but, in fact, by words and suggestions that go much further, are expected to do so. Prominents are expected to be expressed in ways that even if they support the case, members of the committee may make strong comments. On this point, it is heard from the discussion that the request I addressed to the president of the previous day that a copy of this fine publication of the president's office was sent to all the representatives of the budgetary committee for full purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u78	V.E.G. President. I didn't mean to come up again, but what? paritaprevir As a result of the fallout of Þóra's Árnadóttir, I decided to do so when she said something about the possibility that members of the greater part would not be responsible for a committee party if they were not at peace with one another. But the warning does not apply to the text of the majority of the section in the committee opinion. He's in the committee hearing. In fact, the warning is not to be of any greater importance because it is being considered the warning that the members of the body have to support the case. If you want to be in advance at a committee party, you will always have to check that for the greater part of it, you wonder what it is for. Is it more part of the budget to implement any new policy here, any new strategy? Is that what we see here? I don't know that it's been practiced anywhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u79	Mr. President. I don't have a budget, but somehow it sounds like the time we've spent on this discussion was used, for example. to put away a special party or something like that would have been time enough to do so. Hv. A senator who wanted to promote the views of his party could have presented them in a special way. [[For the record, he's an officer.]] He's an audition officer, yes. Hv. A senator could then have presented it in a talk. However, it is clear that the greater part has custody of the case and of the committee. And I think senators have every opportunity to present their views in other ways than by writing a long text into a committee opinion, as they assume. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u80	I think it's such a weird saying that I don't really know exactly where to begin. In other words, the reminder is to behave in some way that pleases the greater part. Otherwise, there will be chaos and riots within the committee. I think it's important here that the budget isn't controlled by the smaller parts. Some sort of an aura, excuse the sleigh, or a debate seems to be about to start here to mention that the lesser part has prehumanity, it's putting everything into resolution. I just think it's clear that there's nothing to do with it and that it has more to do with how the greater part treats the smaller part. The lack of respect and indifference we see here makes it difficult for us to get in front of the President's conference board to discuss what is happening on committees. What's going on?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u81	A respectable president. Although I was among those who merely smiled at this scene, whom I consider to be fully subject to its name, of course, it is very serious. And it's a little special and serious that the more part comes up and tells the representatives of the smaller parts how they could have solved that problem after they have taken away the right to express themselves. Couldn't he just have stayed home and had a fight with the radio? Would he not have been able to do that? Or would he not have been able to go for a walk and cool off if he didn't agree with us? It's the only tool he's got, and it's supposed to be taken from him. That is the point, and that is the severity. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u82	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by saying that I believe the President's conference board is in great order here. But I cut by words. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the son of Aargis, spoke of custody earlier. He spoke of the greater part having custody in this case, and this is the point. It's a custody debate, a custody debate about a word or two. paritaprevir Jón, son of Steindór, the Valdimarsson of Waldo. I think that's what. A senator ought himself to have custody of his own words and of the opinion he wishes to give and of what he wishes to sign, and I don't think that the greater part should have custody of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u83	Mr. President. It's amazing. The majority of the shares are beginning to take possession of editorial authority. I predict that this publication, as a boy. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson has even. Rightly, if the next victim avoids the greater part of the council, the publication will be redirected because the rules of action there are not suitable for a greater proportion of them to bring back their views. This is a serious matter. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson was supporting much of it, and it has been called for our support of something else from the government. During our restoration, we have sincerely done so and have offered our suggestions, and at last they have been heard to do so now. But we can't even mention it, and we're just supposed to spill it. No one should know that much of the Parliament's suggestions have been made. That's the big deal. You can't say because it's customary to have all the suggestions in the memory of the object. [[The president calls.]] It's nothing but a editor. They've talked about it being original. Yeah. It's funny, yeah, but it's also crying. This is sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u84	V.E.G. President. After this meeting talk, you wonder if the wonderful talks I have been giving in this case will be delivered and they will be censored afterwards. I don't know what the new criteria are after all of this, but we'll put it to the test. I'd like to discuss this round just an article that's in the Morning Press this morning, after the truth of the independents of the mayor of the city of Eyþór Arnaldur. It's called Insecure. I think this word, an adventure, is in the mind of many evidences that something fun is coming. Many people go on an adventure because they know that something fun will happen in it, but the uncertainty of the city councilman here points to, the point of independence, is a completely different kind of adventure. This is an adventure because uncertainty is really complete. In itself, no one has planned the event in the end. No one has planned what will take place when the trip is over. Of course, the voyage is about the city line, with the point of the independence in Reykjavík City to write. It is similar to a whale. paritaprevir Andersen in a speech at the council, she warned of the high cost of the project. The city councilman rightly reviews the city's period of large construction within the city target. However, he correctly points out that it was the choice of Reykjavíkurburg, the greater part of the mayor's city, to sit and use funds in promoting public transport, as it was called, without strengthening it. Billions are under way, apparently merely to cover the share of the rural society in Street business. It is not a good investment for the State. It is not a good investment but in long - term public transportation when goals have not been met. I'd like to step down in the councilman's article, by permission of the President's article: The Agency has turned down construction funds. A self - appointed construction stop was formed in what has been called a 10-year experiment on which important projects were put on ice have created a transport problem. It was to double the share of public transportation, but it has failed completely. Like large cities, a lack of need for solutions has made safe traffic jams. So says the comments of the independent Ponder of Reykjavík City, traffic jam. This, of course, is what we know we're on the road, waiting and waiting, long stops, traffic whistles ahead because there's no space. The number of cars and residents that choose to use the car as a means of travel has not been expected to increase. Another point is found in the case of independents in their article. He noted that the city has specific obligations in accordance with its agreement regarding a so - called city line, with permission of a president: She's supposed to organize the Kveldland. It hasn't been done. She's got to speed up Sunway. Well, that has not been done. It must be speeded up by planning for an assembly at Bourbourg Road and Eaglenes Road. It's been delayed and entangled in the city. V.E.G. President. I now hope that councilmen will listen, and so will the editors. ▪ It is difficult for the State to trust someone who is not on his side. The city councilman is pointing out that the city of Reykjavík has not lived up to its state. We generals are expected to agree with the so - called city line, such as hell. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen calls it, which is an entirely unattractive phenomenon, apparently, also according to the senator. We are now to agree with an agreement on that project without the existence of any terminal station on the adventures referred to by the lndependence Department of Opportunity. It's a real adventure mission. It is not even known, a respectable president, where the beginning point of the journey is, let alone the end. That's not known. What will happen along the way, where will they be stopped? It's not done. It is not even ready to appear - now I say that what seems to be - what kind of vehicle will be used, because the city's leading spokesmen are now talking about the need to build up speed trains. It's not good to throw off this adventure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u85	V.E.G. President. I'm interested in going to a small history explanation, review, and mention in 1997. That year Kjalarnes became united in Reykjavík. Some had said that the city had made a contract there. Why were the Cjalnes being united over their heads? It would have been as if they were united with Mosfellsville. They were probably the right kind of carrot. The yellow root was a Dreakway, which would have linked Kjalarnes to the city of Reykjavík. Thus, they would have had easy access to the service of the capital and should have rendered to all the people of the land. There are countless other options. It shortens the way from towns, such as Aranesp and Borgnes to Reykjavík. She is safe to do, and we know in this country that there are things that can happen, and one way to escape is not only unwise but also foolish. One of the main advantages of the Sunway is to develop a connection with Ginginginganes, which is 390 acres [390 ha], three times greater than the country of Köldnaland, which is at present in the discussion and in association with a union of poor sound to establish the structure of transport infrastructure in the capital area. Respect of Köldnaland today may be close to 15 billion. But respect for it can be increased greatly. This is done by reducing the supply on property. True, it does not need to be, since there is very little supply. In today's capital area, we can estimate that the cost of heat, pricing, and other expenditures of 100 m2 are in the range of 8◯10 million. This means that an apartment price is 201⁄225% higher than it would need to be enough property supply. Who's paying? Of course, real estate owners and tenants. Everyone knows rent prices come with real estate prices. So it's always the public who pays for it. In addition to the public's spending energy prices for housing, the public will have to pay for the future building of the city line and its activities. So the question is: Will this entity be used? Several studies have been conducted during travel and one of the bus transport trips showed that by 2002 there were 9% of those traveling to school, which in 2019 was the percentage of 7%. This may give some explanations. One might be an increased amount of telecommunication or such. I have no doubt that those patients who have to go to the Land Hospital will take a city line there. What's the argument for mayor Reykjavík's fantasies? He gives an example of cities of a similar size to Reykjavík and specified in a report. Odiné, Adar, Álaborg, Le Mans and Angers. All these cities have a light system. These systems range from 121⁄2/14.5 km. The city line in Da Day B. Eggertson's supposed to be 40 miles. How much does it eventually cost? Nobody knows, not even Dagur. A city line in Helsinki is sometimes referred to, but too seldom. The modern - day trolley system is widely used. Because it is the most widely used center area in the city, it is not confined to traffic. She's got her right to exist, there's nowhere to go, and people have a choice. Central areas, most of which are buildings, are large, probably 30 m wide, under the system and have plenty of space for cars to travel. But as we get closer, the centre inside the neighborhood, the system is convulging trafficways. But this is the beginning of the wrong end. The first thing to do is to tread down a city line in an area where there is no room for it, is intended for other traffic to take its place. In parts of the suburbs, city lines can be established, here central areas may have to take action, such as stocking a Grand Way. But the amount of time involved has not been calculated. From the very least where it must begin to dig up in that area. V.E.G. President. I'm not halfway there, so I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u86	V.E.G. President. Once again, we talk about transport, and there's something new that we're learning all the time. The last time I left, I went over the Scottish route, more to understand her better, how it really works, or what the plan is to do under Icelandic conditions. I came to believe that the Scottish way was not necessarily the best way. In general, it aims to increase the availability of people from the region called peripheral to services in the capital area. More often than not to mention health care, there is a map on the Scottish route. I don't think that's quite good enough. I feel that health care is supported by a legitimate basic service. It's supposed to be available to everyone. It's supposed to be home to them. It may well be that people now receive subsidized flights, even through health insurance, but still, more often than not, people do not get all the necessary trips they need because health insurance says they are unnecessary despite the fact that a doctor has pointed to something else. There's a lot of people taking just Visa chart loans, so I'm going to rip it off, to pay for medical care. The result is that before it is picked up, we have to have a chance to discuss its advantages and weaknesses. I don't think we've talked about her qualities, just not at all. So I stick to my flight, a new flight policy is introduced in the process of transportation for the years 20200/2034. There are good things, and there are good things there. I'm not gonna say it's all bad. It says that good air travel is a prerequisite for living in Iceland today's independent nation. It is said to make the international flight more practical for the inhabitants of the country, and then we are probably talking about the Scottish route. However, I cut one on page 32 on the long-term schedule, this is not long, with President's permission: The government's standards are increasing international flights through Akureyri or in the region of Egl so that tourists are more widely distributed throughout the country. I don't like it when these places are set up against each other. Rather, I would have said that the government's policy was to increase the international flights of Akureyri and Eglels, perhaps counting even more airports that could serve the international airport. Then we will discuss how we can take on more tourists. But it's completely past the fact that there may be more than good for local local people to just get rid of having to go to Keflavík. I just stop at that point and feel that this chapter can simply be rewritten so that he serves the real purpose of the whole country. Home - to - earth flights are covered, and it is very good and blessed. However, once again it is stated that there is a need for additional access to central services in the capital area. That's where I think we have to stick around. If we continue in the flight phase, there's a lot to say about technology. [[The president calls.]] I'll just take it in the next speech and ask the president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u87	Mr. President. We'll talk about a transport plan. I'd been talking about the city line and the flaws that the middle class and I see in it. I'm going to talk about this so - called ransom, which we've given to some of the people in this discussion. The ransom is actually what neighboring communities and the state have decided to lean forward to escape from the siege of the capital area for the past few years and decades, i.e. Promotion has been stopped. Nothing has been accomplished on stockways, and nothing has been performed in regard to the mishappen and development of stockways, resulting in total traffic in the region for many years. Police departments are naturally well - known that when they feel that there is a crisis, and especially when they can get out of it by relying on something, especially if they don't have to pay it themselves, they are willing to pay something to get out of it. In order to escape this project, the neighbors'communities, and now recently the state's funds, have decided to raise money in what we call a city line, evidently in the intention of completing this project stop, because they are being stuck in the transport contract of the capital area, some other projects that are good and with the middle-class members, that these will be built up for courses and misdirections and thus made out of the traffic that have been stopped here in the past year. The ransom may not be too high for neighbors to rely on because the State takes the basic weight of this ransom and puts it even as a ransom for one of the most valuable buildings available in the capital area, i.e. Its land, over a hundred acres [100 ha] of land, is in the best places in the city to build and to rely on it. The agreements on that land are completely unclear, which will benefit from the construction of the area when it is provided in this transport contract. It is the ransom, but it is not just the neighboring communities that rely on hundreds of millions or billions but especially on the State. But primarily, there are road users, since within this covenant it is assumed that these bazaars, which were so long called well but are today called speeds, are paid by road users to drive the second center in the eye of delaying traffic, have it cost a lot for family cars to simply leave him and jump up to the nearest road. Because the city line does not eliminate buses, it is a clean addition, i.e. There will be some kind of carriages; light carts or carriages, or any of these, traveling around in these red rules that lie here from the heart of the capital area in a few directions. The price to be made for them by means of the related costs, which are not at all identified and badly implemented. In some places there will be tighter traffic, so there will be more delays than we have seen so far. All of this is done in order to force people to use these transports that people have not wanted to use here on land to study to a small extent.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u88	V.E.G. President. It has been said during this discussion that we middle class members oppose the transport programmes and that we want to delay their progress. That's not true at all. We have declared that there are a lot of things in these programs that we take to heart and look for better ways. It has also been observed in the case of the highest court. This morning a minister of transportation that he could not say yes that any delay would be because we would have chosen to discuss these matters thoroughly. However, this was evident in a steady answer, rather unstable, sharp. Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppér last night, a member of Congress, was saying that we're delaying the start of necessary road repairs. It was clear to him that on both sides of the Ox's road, crowds were now waiting for the Middle Class to stop speaking. Now, Mr. President, as presented here in my speech earlier at the highest. A secretary of transportation does not know that any project will be delayed because we have chosen to discuss these matters quite extensively. Sometimes it's like the highest. A minister didn't get all the memos. He said about a matter the other day that he had first heard about it on the radio when the government had decided some specific action for Covid. Then you have to ask, "Is that how, Mr. President?" paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has more information than the secretary of transportation for any undisclosed, alleged task which is taking longer now because we middle-class people have chosen to discuss it quite extensively? Mr. President. You know, when people put up these things like that, you know, like what you're doing. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé did here yesterday in some unstable remarks to members of Congress, they must find that place. He has to be here and explain the extent to which transportation or transportation is being delayed because we in the central category have chosen to discuss the transport programmes quite extensively. If that doesn't happen and that's what happened. A senator does not give a clear example of an assignment that will be delayed because we are here discussing this matter. His words are of no value and are not to be taken seriously. Of course, it is very sad if people reach out and try to strike out those who want to do what we're trying to do in this case. We'd like to be sure, Mr. President, that in both schedules there's nothing to be found as a failure to produce a trust fund, which is not good for us. We simply want a problem with what we are doing. We want the vast amount of money set aside for transport in Iceland to be used effectively. Mr. President. Now I'm only halfway through what I was going to say and ask the President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u89	Mr. President. We are in the situation of being in the greatest economic recession possible. The nation's currency industry has collapsed. It's unemployment, the state's fund is down to a huge angle, and so on. At that time, the Independence Party and the natural government are intending to protect 50 billion, Mr. President, from a government fund in a so - called city line. It is clear that within the Independence Party, there is no unity on this matter. That was very clear from the speech given. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen earlier in this discussion, she did not turn aside from a city line that was different from calling it so - called and repeatedly speaking about it as a phenomenon in her speech. It is also evident that great proselytists in the Independence Party have strongly opposed this, in order to form Björn Bjarnason repeatedly on their blog, as well as in the newspaper editorial. With the permission of a president, I will witness to an editorial in the morning issue of June 22, June. The guide's signature is: Important discussion of transportation. As noted, the morning paper is directed by the former chairman of the Independence Party, the prime minister for many years. The guide says, with President's permission: In contrast with most other transport projects, there is little chance that it will be effective in making traffic pay and could further squeeze the traffic system in Reykjavík, which is not to be used. I would like to shoot in that editor of the Morning Press was also mayor of Reykjavík for many years. However, the editorial continues: On Saturday, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson followed this up in a discussion about the transport program at the General Assembly and pointed out that a city line would have the effect of taking one lane from the private car. Obviously, there are many ways in which this is done, it will make traffic in the capital area even more difficult than it is now. Then he pointed out that the appearance of a city line did not mean that the bus was off the scene, since buses were needed to move people to and from the city line, to end up on the city line being a system of giant cars that could not be placed on conventional streets, requiring special lanes and other services. So it's going to be twice the public transportation system in no larger area, which tells us how bad the idea is. In addition, Sigmundur's Davíð report said that there is a potential for construction on the city line and that there is no more need for a planned cost of business. Of course, this is a huge flaw in plans, especially in view of the fact that for nearly a decade it has been done to add a billion extra a year to the bus system in the capital area without any success. □ How much more money is needed each year when the heavy - metal, overgrown city line system is added? I see reason to discuss this editorial rather than the time I am given. But I'm making it right and highlighting, Mr. President, that the Independence Party seems completely divided in this matter and would be pleased to retract this aspect of transport planning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u90	Mr. President. I just want to come in like a dog. paritaprevir In his speech, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishun mentioned just this. He explained that the independence party was split up. It is obvious, and it has not been a unity of the work within the city council, as we know it. You might want to think about it a little bit. The independence party's representatives, not all of them, have criticized the project and particularly its funding but are expected to invest for 120 billion dollars. as we have seen in this discussion and that the state will produce 45 billion, 15 billion rural communities, and a special funding, most likely of which are of government expenses and markets, below 60 billion. In the Council of Independence book, the mayor says, by permission of the President: It appears that 60 billion people will be collected from the capital area without reimbursement of such capital taxes. The amount intended to remove a taxpayer's pocket is nearly a new land hospital. It is important that twofold taxation on the population, increased taxation in the form of road costs, and the tax paid by the citizens of the land be saved. And it goes: The last, but not least, of interest, has been made, a basic premise for the decision making. The fact is, moving on in recent years has been marked by the fact that rulers are running around with ideas. This is done without making money and priorities. It is interesting to consider the discussions that have taken place in the city of Reykjavík on this subject. It is also of interest to review the publication of the Central Party's representative, the town council Vigdís Hauksdóttir, which makes serious comments on the construction of the city line. She says, with President's permission: It's all in fog, fantasy, and uncertainty. For one thing, it is impossible to tie the terms of an elected representative in Reykjavík and their administrative authority during the next four terms with the expected financial obligations. Before the agreement begins, a new building has been created in the city, and three people have already been hired. And she goes on: The following articles discuss the need to establish a new partnership at both administrative levels, i.e. State and community. It's unprecedented, but it's just the same recipe as the hf-un of state as bs. Partners, an absolute black hole that absorbs high-priority that no one knows where to go. We have, for example, previously seen in the city of Reykjavík that enormous amounts of money are being put on a job without knowing where they are going. There, the so - called rife is famous. The city councilman continues: Since the Greek route is being taken, there will be no need for the presence and follow - up of an elected representative. This agreement is highly unwise and lacks any transfers. In short, the city's line is a financial nightmare for taxpayers. It is quite clear, Mr. President, that the city council members in Reykjavík should be familiar with this matter. It is a direct and direct consideration of the books I've been referring to, in which people declare that there is a lot of financial uncertainty about the project and that they are going into an unpublished taxation of the capital and that there is much uncertainty. However, this is to be discussed as much of a short time in terms of the greater part and the government, and preferably only yesterday, with expenses of tens of billions of dollars, and a large part of it needs to be maintained by government funds. It must be demanded, Mr. President, to have a careful discussion on this matter, and unfortunately it has been pointed out that it is not on the side of the governments. I see my time has passed, Mr. President, and I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u91	V.E.G. President. In my final talk, I was making a review, and I had reached the city line. In the suburbs, urban areas can be reached. Central areas may need to take action, such as stocking a Grand Way, but the time in it has not been calculated, much less what inequities may be up when they start digging in that area. Likely, the number will increase in the pesticide class, and it is well known that rats are in the sewers of the Hives and the Holes. During the period of construction under narrow conditions, the existence of thousands of people living in the area will change. There is a lot of interference, traffic, and pollution. It has a profound impact on the health and quality of life of those in the middle zone. Reykjavík is on the north side, specifically 64°. There's no relevant exit through the city line here. Icelandic winters have been bearable in the capital, but bad years may come. We know that. Reykjavík's neighbors have declared support for city lines. That will likely be a complicated operation in Kópavogi, where all of us know the organization of the streets. Kopavogians must give us some amazing version of the export. The park town is the natural link to the line that will pass through there without any significant impact on the town. Thus, the parks will benefit greatly if it is so unlikely that this is done, and it can be said that the largest intensities in the country, the main stronghold of the Independence Party, will benefit greatly from the efforts of the town, and the rest of the population, of course, pay for it. But what about Hafnarfjörður? Everyone realizes that there's too much traffic there, and it needs to be solved. But it's not a city line. Lights must be guided better and possibly double roads, so much of the traffic is through the Hafnarfnarfjördur cars of the South. Mosfellstown is a special case. The idea is that the city line is in Bolikasgland. It is 90 acres [80 ha], and it belongs to a group called Landey. Landey belongs to a Institute, one of the funds of Arion banks. Thus, the city line of Arion Bank has great interest. The country is highly valued in society's books, and it is their goal to build a great deal near the city line, thus increasing its value. This is possible while local communities maintain a lack of housing. So the city-lining project is brought up by a strong ally of kinaman, led by Anion Bank. Of course, the sellers need to mention the same. There, however, are good roads with a bus that work very well. Of course, we should look to the future's energy exchanges and technology. Cars in the future will no doubt be driven by eco-friendly energy sources. They will become technical, self-driving, and traffic will be improved. Covid-19 has changed the world scene, and no one shares, and people now see the possibility that they can work at home, which means fewer trips. Will it affect public transportation? No doubt. For countless reasons, we are on a wrong path. While there is no final outcome and cost, such an assignment is irresponsible. We must also take into account the secondary costs that will fall to date. It is a cost, such as the quality of life of those living near the construction site, the cost of taxpayers, and the cost of making a mess instead of spending money wisely. As we've been through here many times, it's somehow clear that the city line project is completely unexplored and, in fact, no one knows what's going on. But it's gotten into this deal, and it's hard to understand. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u92	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna take the rest of the flight phase, where there's information technology in the air. We became quite aware of the need for communication equipment in Akureyri when the ILS was finally installed which was thought to be a complete change for the international flight. Of course, it is very good to have him, but it is also a great call to receive a so - called EGNOOS system, or similar equipment, and I understand that when you reject some form of conversation about it, you turn it off. A transport plan also speaks of flying security plans and priorities on the airport. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ What has been the primary purpose of flying management is to ensure that airports meet safety standards and standards that apply to them. A priority order is to meet safety requirements at airports, including reaction to abnormalities, as follows: ports to a foreign country. Other airports in a shallow network for public transport. Landing sites due to medical flight. Landing sites due to safety in public flight and teaching flights. It's cleaned up, and it's pretty good. Of course, I look at most of the landing sites due to a medical flight in relation to what I took here in connection with the Scottish route and access to health care. That's pretty good. As I'm saying, there are a lot of good things in this transport program. To make up the point that the Scottish route seems to aim for people to be able to attend services to the capital area, and I don't like it, I agree on a chapter on page. 43, about the center of the bill, which discusses the objectives of positive development. Let's keep the Scottish route in mind when I read this, with President permission: The main aim of the transport programme for positive development is to improve housing quality, i.e. that transport is as simple, reliable, practical, and safe as possible, with special emphasis on defined national parts and the core within them. At the same time, the whole of the country's transport systems will be integrated in an effort to serve people and commercially effectively. Strategies are laid on integrated transport programmes with other programmes, including building plan, in order to improve work and school application areas and to increase dependability, more important for people to make their way in most days of the year than to focus on shorter travel times. There is also a goal for national planning policies for 2018,202029.◯ So they are to view the land as a unit and to promote individual areas. That's why it's quite remarkable to bring people to the capital area in one place so that they can get a quick service, while they're saying we shouldn't have to watch this speed. Basis services in the home must be a prerequisite for all the land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u93	Mr. President. During my final talk, I discussed the ransom. I think most people have come to realize what that ransom was. The ransom was to remove the population of the capital area from the siege area, from the traffic jams that have been here for years. And who provided the ransom? It was the neighboring community who decided to negotiate with the greater part of Reykjavík for transportation in the capital area to achieve some relief on the founding and misdirectional corners. They were willing to make a contribution and pay for this so - called city line, even though their ideas were blurred. Yet, they were willing to negotiate and raise this money, pay the ransom, to bring an end to the modern construction work stop. They have been under siege for many years and have paid the ransom to be released from it. I am increasingly surprised, however, that the State also entered this covenant despite the insurrection plans for the city line. I make significant comments that this covenant has been entered, as vague and all plans for it and its results. Will the city line make traffic in the capital area easier? A lot of people say otherwise. It is finally, Mr. President, the beginning of a critical debate over the city line. Whatever causes, men so far have not suggested that they criticize her. Now, Mr. President, all the windows will be opened. In the Morning Journal of the Day, at least Three articles that discuss the city line. I think it's safe to say that everyone who wrote these articles severely criticize her, each in his own way. A week ago, there was a very detailed article on the reactor after traffic engineer Þórarinn Hjaltason, where he criticizes the city line and argues that its presentation is propaganda, that propaganda is being promoted, not to inform or report the facts and research and the details of a movie. I'm going to read the conclusions of an independent leader in the city of Eyþór Arnaldur, who wrote in the Morning newspaper this morning on an Uncertain tour. He concludes this article with the permission of a president: A project that is to cost more than 70 billion is replaced by uncertainty. This is done at the same time as a combined income crisis due to a fungal crisis. Would it not be easier to apply what is truly effective, predictable, and reasonable? This is how the comments of the Independents in Reykjavík in the morning newspaper and this morning a guide in the morning concludes with the permission of the president: ▪ How sad it is when as many urgent transport projects as they are experienced worldwide, including the capital area, the council is now working to waste tens of billions, or even more of money, in a project that, at best, does no good but will likely slow down the area even more. I will continue to quote this article in my next speech, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u94	V.E.G. President. We still discuss a transport plan, and especially have our eyes focused, and we have done so before, to the city line. But I'd like to introduce a case I've moved on once or twice, and it'll take care of the security concerns involved, not only to the city of Reykjavík but also to the inhabitants of the neighboring community, to drive through the city if it comes to our disposal of the southwest corner, e.g. in view of the impending disaster or if such things happen. Today, it is very difficult because of tribulations and limitations. And sad to say, after more researching this city line and reading the evidence of criticism, it seems that there is still a further limit to the possibility that people can get out of the city quickly and safely when they need to be held by a city line and these alleged giant chariots and things that seem to be planned. Therefore, there is good reason to ask whether the representatives of the community around the capital had at some point discussed with the capital the need to speed up construction within the city's target so that these routes could be made payable. There is an improvement in the capacity of transport in neighboring communities, such as the U.S.A. in Hafnarfjörður. That assignment is well carried out, but of course, it could be done more quickly than anything else. Well, that's a plan, anyway. But then the loss comes and stops when men get into the city, and there's something we need to take a close look at, and I would have wanted men to do something more. In view of the fact that we live on our great island, people have to assume that there may be a number of disasters in this area that others do not live on, so transport can take into account but, of course, do not take into account the situation today. Besides, the airport could be important. If they are to get people out of the area flying, there is no doubt whether they will be chosen to take the airport somewhere far up into the rioting forces of the capital area, where flights would even be shut off earlier than here at the sea. Of course, it's all a question, but I think it's a reason to mention this in view of the fact that the attention appears to be primarily on a urban level in the transport sector of the capital. We have received warnings or words from several members of the council, and especially now we have given a reasonable talk. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen, unfortunately, little is heard from other members of the council in the direction Sigríður speaks, and she may appear to be a bit confined to her council when it comes to this view of transportation. But it is clear that the city's point is on the same line as the 1st. The Independence Party in Reykjavík. It is odd that there is no further discussion on this issue on the part of the management board, that they do not put forth effort to protect this structure, which receives a special section of the Committee on Environment and Transport. It deals with the capital contract, with cooperation projects, and with specific features related to the city line. It is very special that the good people who have done their work very well in the committee should come up with no more and defend the conclusion of focusing on this city line. It's clear that the numbers are at a loss because of what they're talking about. A member of the greater part spoke of 50 billion at the city line. Today, in the morning newspaper, an odd sense of independence is spoken of by some 70 billion. There, 20 billion can and can be done for them in the business of a government fund. So I think, more dignified President, that this matter needs to be examined much, much better, and to keep a tight eye on the government funds elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] I wish to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u95	A respectable president. In this speech, I would like to introduce matters that are relevant to the rest of the city's transport covenant. As we have noted, many of the transport agreements have made that there has been a real political desire to get them to work for years and terms, but it has gone extremely wrong. These are the factors involved in modern light management on footways and on the perforation system of the capital area, which is thought to be the means to reduce the time of bus stopping on the streets of the city by 30 to40%, if successful. This, of course, is a tremendous achievement, and it is quite amazing that this point alone was not long ago introduced. According to environmental guidelines, fuel use would reduce a great deal and would reduce drivers' irritability because time saved and the success could be achieved by this simple procedure. Walking and cycle paths are special teams there, which are small comments on the current level, and then the institutions have been held hostage in terms of time. The road has been trying to get ahead with important delinquency measures for a long time. In this discussion, for example, much has been discussed about the road to Bhubby Road and Smokenes Ways. Happily, in the discussion, likely by chance, it whistled that Reykjavíkurburg does not picture allowing the mixed streets to enter that area of the capital contract. This may underscore what I wanted to do in this talk: Is the capital city, Reykjavíkurburg, trustworthy in the organizational arrangements for the transportation contract? I'm sorry to scare the steps on those substances. That's at least Fifteen years since the government felt that construction on a so - called Sunway would be possible. We all know the challenges that this assignment has been in and all the stones that the city authorities have put in the way of this project. There's been a confusion at all levels of the matter. A second problem in which planning authorities are used is that they cannot help but cause anxiety when they are framed at least 120 billion construction packages, such as those being carried out in this transport contract of the capital area - and that will be far out of the way of a project in the capital area, whether to improve the production of 500 million, or to other projects where Reykjavíkurburg seems to have a way of being organized to become more challenging and more expensive than required. Back to the offending corners of the road. It has long been said of the need for different types of transportation through the city so that traffic can be in free flow. This will reduce the number of automobile stops, reduce fuel consumption, and reduce pollution and automobile emissions dramatically. When all of this is taken into account, and then look at the dealings of Reykjavíkurburg with neighboring communities, which are part of this transport contract, all of this suggests that we will be here with a very rigid position on the expected future on the basis of this agreement. Consider the modern - day tractors, and there are no doubt other things to be gleaned about. I also mention the decision of the capital to have stopped at the bus stop in the middle of Geirs Street to prevent the flow of its Seltananes; the track lights, six of them, which will definitely be set so that no one can pass through it any other than stop at least Three of them, except for the flying bird, and I'll mention, in addition, a reduced traffic rate on the Ring Road. These are all the issues that were run through by the city authorities in opposition to their neighbors at Seltananes, and in recent years, it is more than tears begin to pass through all the hardships that have been spent by a large fortune in the capital. All of this goes on the same thing, pressing on and stalling the private car's traffic as much as you can.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u96	V.E.G. President. By the time I was removed, I was completing a discussion on the charges and ideas of the government to reimburse the public in addition to the transport paid. I had decided to turn next to the discussion of the minority and the majority of transport committees'opinions on this matter, i.e. It is thought to have been put between the past and the future, for there are interesting and even interesting things. come, I think, in all those opinions, one and another good thing that got through at the moment. Environment and transport committee under loyal leadership. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason. But on the other hand, there are still great faults, and I have to step back to one of the things I've killed before, for in the meantime, there's been a debate here, not from the rulers of this hall but from town to town, and it's called a city line. On a radio show last morning or tomorrow you mentioned two o'clock. Senators, please. paritaprevir Will Árnason and what? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, city line and discussion about her here. They said that the members of the Central Party, or those who were discussing this matter, what would be the most necessary question, needed to speak out of knowledge, I think the word was. This surprised me to hear that as far as we have considered the city line, we have referred to the facts as they are, to the extent that they are available. But this has not been answered here at the council. This has not been answered by the spokesmen of the case, whether they represent the larger part that continues to run this case or the smaller section of the Council, which continues to drive the case with even more zeal than most, since this issue is primarily driven by the city council in Reykjavík and the classes he appoints. In view of what I've said about this matter, it seems like it hasn't been made up, and even caused some misunderstanding, as you can hear from this interview, I think I need to come back into this city line of business and try to make it accessible to these guys. Congress so they can come and protest something I have to say about this, if they think it's a reason for it, or add something else. Perhaps this is the result of much discussion about this matter in the middle of the night, as is now the case at the highest level. The President of Generalis, in fact, not the one present, trying to cover the debates and comments of the Central Party at night. But then I'll probably have to come back on this thing a little bit, but I'll try to do it in a summary, by closing it together. Then I hope I'm getting some kind of response from the spokesmen of the case. The foundation of the city line is a plan that the state pays tens of billions of dollars, lays on new taxes, new fees, on the general public, and sells away one of the most valuable possessions of the state, the Netherlands, and even the Bank of Iceland, as mentioned, will do all in order to finance driving further in the capital area by taking two of the most important roads of the region and thereby bringing about a complete stop in transport here on the expected length of the day. This is for special pay. In addition, family vehicles should pay extra for being placed in a position to remain trapped even longer than currently, in the presence of much better solutions and more efficient solutions. President. Now I start believing Einstein that time is relative. Could it be five minutes? I was just starting my summary of the city line, so I'd pray to the highest degree. President to put me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u97	Mr. President. We're talking about a transport program, and the biggest project is the so-called city line. There is a prelude to the use of wording. paritaprevir The Sigríður of Á. Andersen, of the so - called city line, are built on a completely unrealistic financial foundation and is, like, a driving force. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson was attributed to a final talk, a fall in order to squeeze the city's traffic even more than the people now live in. For this, the public should pay with all kinds of expenses and spend over five dozen billion of the public funds for the project. In it should be sold at least The traditional country, because it's here in Congress papers and it's like a dog. A member of that committee has been discussed with regard to putting other valuable assets into it, such as U.S. bank. It has become quite clear, Mr. President, that the Independence Party, which handles the government case, is responsible for this bill, but the party is not complete and exclusive. This was made clear in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Sigrimurs Á. Andersen, who was well introduced, and the finest and the senator did not accept his views. Nor has it made a great author of the so - called blog worlds, Björn Bjarnason, a former senator and minister of the Party. Finally, I would like to mention the editors of the Evening Press, former Prime Minister and mayor of Reykjavík. He is working today in the Morning newspaper, which I mentioned in my previous talk, under the heading: an urgent discussion of transportation, and, of course, he is referring to the discussions conducted at the General Assembly these days. I would like to refer further to this article, but before I do, I would like to say about the dissensions that are evident in the Independence Party that, fortunately, there are still people who are not willing to offer themselves any more of the above. This is a preemptive treatment of public funds, and these schemes are inexplicable from a road view. Have many eloquent men, experts, professors, engineers, and others used the very harsh language to make up one traffic engineer, who pointed out in an article of the core over the past year to reach the goal of public transportation by defending them several billion. You can compare several billion on the one hand and 50 billion on the other, as well as the Bank of Iceland. An editorial in the Morning newspaper quotes the Committee's opinion as a secondary part of the Environment and Transport Committee, which is the driving force. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, chairman of the Committee, and why. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason. The article says that the transport contract made possible by the State and the rural areas in the capital area is in the minority opinion. It continues: ▪ Much of that covenant is centered on the city line but, for example, does not answer the question of how, when, or even whether a Way of Swim will be realized. Regarding the treaty and the city line, Bergþór and Karl Gauti say:: ▪ Other smaller items make serious comments to plan the transport arrangements that come to the city line. Despite the desire to pay for a wide range of means of transportation, including public transportation, 2 smaller things do not seem to be a defence to plan a city line so important that state and rural society will defend less than 50 billion dollars. Until the year 2033 to the city line. It has not been demonstrated that the more efficient targets for cities cannot be met than to spend 50 billion dollars. During the specified period. [[The president calls.]] There is no fixed cost plan for projects on the urban line as well as the lack of interest and management programmes, and unclear who will carry the cost of the business at the end. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking to be put on the rosary to continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u98	Mr. President. I have in my previous discussions about transport plans, especially when I have discussed the urban line, one of the most important and costly transport initiatives, eye on planning specialists, and traffic experts when it comes to expressing their opinion of the planned implementation. One of our chief strategologists, Trausti Valsson, and Þórarinn, a traffic Hjaltason, has expressed himself on this subject, and I believe it is simply our duty to listen to experts in these matters. They say that these ideas are inefficient and based on a weak foundation and that this is a very questionable transport system. These are big words on the part of those best known in this series of languages. That people who have had a lifetime's work to do in mountains, research, write articles, and other aspects of planning and transportation can communicate in this way are anything we need to listen to. It is known regarding this city line that it is to be paid for buses, then large buses. This route is not a bullet train or a train, as is called, by trains. There are some who think so, but they don't. They're buses. They have special lanes, probably better, and special stations. Trausti and Þórarinn say that two lanes for the city line and more waiting stations have a wide platform, and they will be placed between lanes. There must be room for it from the source and the current street space. Here are some experts who once again add words. They say it would take less than one car lane on Ring Road and west into town in either direction. This is where we're gonna see what's happening. Tens of billions of dollars of transportation are being added as a trust fund, the whole country's public, to the extent necessary. Deploy the lanes of Ring Lane and west of town to one in each direction. The private vehicle is being pushed out specifically. This means that there will be an even greater delay in private cars. Although the mayor won't admit it, people are being forced to take advantage of buses. I don't like that policy, Mr. President. Reykjavíkurburg and its organizational features are designed to make people private cars, and the future is very different. As noted, the future is self - driving. Is it wise, then, to engage in such an expensive means of transportation, which, in the opposite corner, involves public transportation, is one of the greatest technological revolutions in these areas? I'm especially referring to self-driving cars. Yes, the conclusion may be that this city line will start, but eventually it will be taken out of the way. And then technical innovations come into it all. So I think it's just a matter of being reasonable and taking this assignment seriously and listening to the experts I've mentioned best. And there are others who say that this is a very questionable means of transportation. I'm on a budget board where you have to think about every dollar on behalf of the state, and it seems to me that this is an extremely unscrupulous project, especially now that the government budget has reached over 300 billion, and we need a stream of high - price expenses in relation to viral epidemics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u99	V.E.G. President. It has caught my attention in this excellent discussion of the transport program, both short and long, over the past few days as to what it is starting to attract attention in the community. What a joy it is to see them as well as to see how people react, as well as what you see in the media! There is little about this in the news, not materially, but there were three articles in the Morning newspaper today that have been published in the News and elsewhere. The same is true of Internet mediums and communal systems and such. In my mind, it's like there's something about this kind of hibernation that people are waking up in the middle of, and they tell me what it's really been having a little discussion. It may also tell me that there's not much politics in this, not contrary to the political ax you're raised to be active. Perhaps there is one explanation of how this government is put together, and the government's opposition is put together. The political debates that should be held in a Senate hall are merely powerless in this regard. I'm feeling a little sad about this because we're discussing a big case that concerns one of the major structures in the country. It's transportation. There has been a lot of time here to discuss transport in the capital area that has been neglected for decades. We, the Central Party, have been instructed that we are a tata, that we want to slow down these matters, which are completely ignorant. It's not like that at all. That's exactly what we've been talking about, and it's clearly stated in the Committee on Environment and Transport, since then. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason. paritaprevir A less part of Ólason's greió, says that less than 2 less interests increase money estimated to be a wide - wide means of transportation. But then we're going to say back to it: '-: '62. ' less is involved in making serious comments on the policy making plans for the city's urban transport policy. There is a special dart in this flox that has been criticized, how the approach is on what is discussed later, the establishment of the official part of the transport contract of six rural communities in the capital area where the city line is inserted. That's what we've criticized. Then I want to attend the end of my talk period, which is far too short and I wish to the highest. The president put me back on the rosary, to mention that the members of the greater part have spoken of no mention of city line in the leading party of much. That's wrong. It is mentioned on two pages, in clear letters. It says that in the transport contract, significant projects are expected to be on the inside of all transport in the capital area, including city lines and other bus routes, walk and cycle paths, and the expected to complete the first stages of city lines during the first period of transport. [[The president calls.]] This, indeed, is mentioned in the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u100	V.E.G. President. I want to say something. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður when he said that we would welcome all the improvements in the transport system, but we would not be impressed with the fact that much money was being placed in the city line and that everything has to disappear. It is also a question of whether part of the society of public transportation is appropriate if it is taken into consideration. I'm just going to talk about what is called the foundation of the transportation. I've talked about airports that are part of the network, and I've listed them, but there's all the airports and the main airports and main ports, ferry and shipping routes along the coast, cruises, and flights to and from the country. It is just this foundation and structure of the one that is a priority when discussing the priorities of money. The basic transport network is divided between roads and harbors and airports, and it is very extensive. I read here that the 1,191 bridge is in the highway system, and that's 677 of us. From the moment I remember, there's been talk of the need for single bridges, or 36 bridges on the road or so, of the 677 single bridges. A fall. Then it is expected that all regional cores with approximately 100 or more people or people are connected to a foundation on land, and it is discussed and noted that the most important foundation is also what is thought to be important for fishing, tourism, and transport to and from the country and airports with effective planning flights. The road system, however, is the most extensive transport system in the network and thus the longest in structure, maintenance, and management. We know that it has been a struggle to take on maintenance of the country, and that's kind of what I always put in touch with all the money to go to the city line, and that's only for stock costs. There are roads that must be dealt with, and I feel that should be the priority. Small changes have been made on the network of transportation, but in fact, the emergency runway was closed, but otherwise little has happened. There has been a global construction stop and a great need for maintenance. They're talking about a big attack. If we talk only about road construction, construction projects will be done on the road system in maintenance and new projects. The maintenance of roads includes the overall maintenance of the road system, such as maintenance and renewal of limited breaks and erosion, supply and reform, maintenance bridges, protection parks, maintenance of security procedures, water damage and other parts, there are many factors to consider. There are some maintenance goals that I will discuss in the next talk. [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the highest. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u101	Mr. President. I was discussing the ransom earlier, and then I discussed it. I wondered, " In recent months and years, why this discussion about the city line has been so critical. ' Why is the discussion as critical as possible? Why would that be? I wonder if this is because of a number of categories in the city of the city of Reykjavík, including those in the government here at the council. This has quite a broad political support among very many categories in the mayor, which are subsequently reflected in the composition of the government. Men have held back from sharing with this descendant of the mayor of Reykjavík, the behind - handed part of Reykjavík, which has been over many years. His main dream has been to promote public transportation. People have, for example, agreed, and we also agree, it would be worth the effort to increase the share of public transportation. Thus, more money was put on public transportation a decade ago. I was discussing this discussion and had quoted only articles that appeared in the magazines this morning. I quoted the morning edition, and a guide says when discussing the transport and the importance of transportation matters, with permission of the president: However, a transport strategy is not only about transport in the region; it is also about transport in the capital area; and it includes transport. Sets the money to a so-called city line. There's more fun, because a city line differs from most other transport projects in that it is unlikely that it will result in the success of paying for traffic and could further narrow down the road in Reykjavík, which is not to be used at all. Another writer in the morning newspaper is Professor Jónas Elíasson. He says, with President's permission: ▪ The main purpose of transport improvements was to facilitate traffic between places. Then people were drowning in unbrided rivers and hooks on top of mountain roads. But now you can ask, Is that time gone? Based on a stated policy, urban planning is to force people to go to the bus by placing special street roads and stopping highways in the capital area by another traffic route. Later, he speaks of the organizational rights and the problems that have been faced in the capital area because of the organizational authority of the capital itself. He proposes that this lack of planning in the traffic capital area should result in the development of the General Assembly, as he says, by the permission of a president, the instruments of the organizational right of the local community, but did not award these efforts in making a special contribution to the transport program in their own country to the host. The comments of the Independents of Reykjavík, Oythor Arnaldur, in an article, also this morning: In accordance with the transport covenant, the EEA itself has certain responsibilities. She's supposed to organize the Feldland. It hasn't been done. She's got to speed up Sunway. Well, that has not been done. It must be speeded up by planning for an assembly at Bourbourg Road and Eaglenes Road. It's been delayed and entangled in the city. It is difficult for the State to trust someone who is not on his side. I'm sorry this game of the city went on this ride. In the capital area, it is long time for a major campaign of transportation. Reading these articles strengthens the words of Jónas the son of Elíasson when it comes to the confusion of these articles. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u102	V.E.G. President. We're still talking about transportation, as much of a problem as it has been done, but not nearly enough, as we all know, who have been following transport or using transportation in most cases. It is very limited, even though there is a considerable amount of tax from those using the roads of the country and the owners of automobiles rather than from road - to - road roads. That is a special point to consider. There is concern when discussing a very limited amount of money when the government makes itself possible, now I'm going to say possibly because the debates aren't over, a fine to open the box, opening the cash for projects that are somewhere in the uncertainty, such as the city council's point of Independence, wrote in the Morning newspaper today. The uncertainty is enormous, especially about a city line that is in the transport program that we now discuss. We've got to figure that out, chief. The president, that when a transport plan is adopted with the text in it, it is, of course, that this project is being framed in part. What I've mentioned in speeches once or twice is what I'm going to allow myself to call uncertainty about the funding of other projects. When a government fund makes a agreement to go to certain projects with the city or rural areas around which, of course, the city has made its commitment. The wealth is very difficult to run from such commitment if there is a prerequisite failure unless it is specifically framed in and kept up. No one is talking about running from one thing or another, for the government funds will, of course, be involved in the work they are committed to do. But at the same time, he is setting up funds that may need to be used in other projects, on other projects, in this large and massive task that this unexplained city line appears to be. The numbers are pretty high already. We've got 50 billion in our data. This will cost 70 billion, which, according to an article in the Morning Press, today, and all uncertainty remains, of course. There's a lot to be made up of, so to speak, but the uncertainty is absolute. We've called for a better picture and more explanation of the strategy, what is likely to be the final outcome, what the risk is, how the risk of the implementation will be divided. The operation hasn't been in the way. In fact, an article in the odd sense of independence in Reykjavík, Eyþór Arnaldur, in the Morning Press, shows that the cost of operating is not readily available. As a result, this is a very uncertain situation for urban funds and the financial resources of the local communities around them. It is a responsible part of the majority of the rural unions who have agreed to go on this mission not to make any clearer demands on costs. You wonder, " Is it simply responsible for this kind of work, going on a project as large and as expensive as it is likely to be going ahead without making any noise? ' There is the choice of this greater part of the community, and, of course, they will have to account for it in elections when it comes to it. My main concern is that the urgent projects in the transport capital area will have to stay behind because there are a lot of money put on this project, I don't now talk about the country, where we still have many roads that are hardly under the name as roads, to limit the financial resources of the state will affect it. This may result in loss of work, whether by road correction, by reevaluation of roads, or even by tunnels, because a government fund will not be able to cover itself or finance its share if the commitment has gone too high. We also look forward to a recession now in the economy, in the business world, which will mean less income than may have been expected a year ago, and we need to act. This is one united project and concern, in fact, also, city lines and interest and financial resources of the government fund on the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u103	Mr. President. In my final talk, I came to see if Reykjavíkurburg could be trusted in organizational matters. I mentioned communication between Reykjavíkurburg and his colleagues in this so - called transport contract of the capital area, pointing to it, in the light of history, how Reykjavíkurburg has handled her organizational authority for the last terms of its development, the Sunway, the Wateramrina, and the narrowing of the streets, and how it has been called the family car. I haven't been able to set up a situation in the Watermelon so far in the discussion. There is a very special situation where as much effort is being made to reduce the management of the airport, as has been done in the world planning authorities and the rest of the city of Reykjavík. Of course, we know a new example of the city council official Vigdís Hauksdóttir, which brings us to the attention of and fortunately in that the city's scaffolding took off back, i.e. When a city line was to be placed in full distance through the bridge of the Ernis airline in Reykjavík. It is the kind of action that has been kept under the cover of the night, as it has sometimes been called. It's a large army of employees who are working on these projects, and this is, like, what do you mean? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé described so well, without using the term the samurai method being used there as in so many other places. One slice off the airport at a time. There is a tightness to this, a reduction in the safety of the field, a decrease in management policy with the point of view that although the agreement is made to be in place to be as good or better prepared for use, the aim appears to be to reduce the management security and management of the field to at some point in the Grouproom and not to provide continued confirmation of the management of the field. This is a factor that causes many, including me, to experience aggravating the management of the organization. The situation is faced with the proposed new settlements in the cutthroat area, where the people of the cut - off land are not listened to at all. There was nothing in the subject of the Ernis airline airline, who announced to the city that the city was enforcing a death sentence over the operation if a road was to be passed through the airline's maintenance shelter. We know that despite being at one end of a so - called emergency course and not at the two courses in use, much of the direction in which we have been built today is affected by flying conditions on the field. These are all things that seem to be cooking through the system, and the goal is to get them organized to the point of not returning. In this way, the airport's operating field in the Waterstain is weakened. It's this point that I think it's absolutely necessary to frame very well into transport adaptations, particularly with the next issue on a program that is the establishment of the official community on this bix all, this phenomenon that the city line is, and the other aspects of the transport contract that is now much better than the city line. I would once again point out the importance of the Central Party Council's role in this protection, since it is, of course, a defense. The construction of the capital area from all directions and from those to the least. I'd like to from here on a moon thank Mr. Vigdís Hauksdóttir very much for her contribution in this defense struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u104	Mr. President. The independent party has accepted responsibility for the financial affairs of this ideal period. It cannot be said that in all respects it has failed. There have been many things that have been done well. But in this matter, I will say, with perfect irresponsibility. In transport, the largest project to be carried out when there is a great need for construction, transport, international infrastructure, is the city line. There's no way around the city line. paritaprevir The victory over Andersen so put in a talk earlier in this discussion that this so - called city line is completely unexplored and there is no hand in it. There are many prominent members of the Independence Party, outside the council, who have opposed this. There's no mention of the members of the Independence Party. In particular, I mention the article "Subjects of the Class in Reykjavík, Eyþór Arnaldur, " in the Morning Press. I'm writing on Björn Bjarnason's website, which is read by many people. And, of course, I mention the morning issue that has discussed this many times. Of course, it is the easiest thing to review an editorial in today's paper about a city line. The editor of the newspaper, former chairman of the Independence Party and the mayor, the prime minister of the longest man, concludes his editorial with these words, with the permission of a president: ▪ How sad it is when as many urgent transport projects as they are experienced worldwide, including the capital area, the council is now working to waste tens of billions, or even more of money, in a project that, at best, does no good but will likely slow down the area even more. Mr. President. I challenge it. Independence taking this issue back. This is themselves. Let me tell you something. They cannot be known to act this way when it comes to government and transportation. Mr. President. There is a sharp article in the same magazine today under the heading of the City Line. Its author is a former professor of engineering, Jónas the son of Elíasson, who has repeatedly discussed the city line and in a very negative way. He doesn't think it's an option. He says, with President's permission: ▪ The main purpose of today's transport program is to improve the country's highway system so that industry and economics will benefit. Blocking this road in the capital area should result in the intervention of the legislature of the local community and not a reward for this effort with a specific contribution on the transport program. This statement is an indication of how seriously he views it. He adds: ▪ It is not predictable where such conduct ends. First, the General grants funds to build these roads, so more money to block them again. It would be worth considering this article of Jónas, and I would like the president to revise me on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u105	Mr. President. On the Facebook page of the city line, it says that there is an important milestone in the city's lead line, i.e. that it is assumed that the route of Lullar Square, second of the first two, will be left by the Mayor's Square, at the University of Iceland, and then through the water marrina to the planned bridge from Fos Soir to the Kótaovian to the end of Hamburg. In other words, the bridge over the Fos Soil will be expected and the bridge will link Kópavog to Reykjavík and the city line and the walking, and the wheeling road users will cross it. This is a 270 - inch - long bridge over the scale of the Krásnesi scale, specifically from the north end of Bakkallway to the runway of Reykjavík's airport. That is exactly what is prominent in the design of this city line, i.e. that there is another means of transportation that needs to be removed. As I mentioned in my first talk, only one lane for a car is going west and in both directions, followed by a special lane under the city line. Then it is the Reykjavík airport, and neither is it spared. And with regard to this Fos sog bridge I mentioned, the above - mentioned Facebook page is moving the airport safety fence, so the airport area around the airport is being reduced by less than 4,500 m2 or less than half a hectare. This is to install a 270-mL long and 15-foot bridge estimated to cost 2.5 billion, no less, and nothing is available on how it will be financed. In fact, this bridge has been a bit upset in terms of tenders and others, and Istavia has warned that the constituency of aerospace is disturbed and should not be broken. It is quite clear that this is an approach to the airport and the safety point, and they are not being considered. So it is assumed that the bridge leaves the runway end of Reykjavík's airport west of the Nautilus to the northeast of the Kárst River, which has 340 ms between trays. Then ground fill will be done at the end of the bridge on either side. So we see, and we know, as though, that Nautilus is constantly being cut down and cut off with new and new fillments, and there is no discussion of environmental assessment in those materials. But that's another story. We then know the latest play that went to the attic the other day, and the mayor's had to pull ashore, i.e. .................................................................................. We'll just see what the work is. There is an important transport agent walking here, blocking the use options of the Reykjavík airport, and everything is in order to advance this city line which has not yet been approved for the coming of the State's Fund. The financiership has not agreed to lay 15 billion dollars. on this project. Nevertheless, it continues as if nothing was wrong, and it is quite clear that the mayor's firm desire is to go this way despite the fact that in the coming years, we are seeing a major policy revolution in self - driving cars. Therefore, there are a number of factors to be carefully reviewed with this subject, and it is necessary to reevaluate ideas about this with regard to future developments, e.g. In self-driving cars, as mentioned. I see my time is over, Mr. President, and I wish I should be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u106	V.E.G. President. I'd like to discuss only the financing business, but it's one of the basic ingredients of the process. It's been a lot of smoke in the city line, but I'd like to grab off in the opinion of 2 smaller parts, which say: ▪ One of the smaller things makes comments on the implementation of the future budget of traffic only as far as the case is concerned, and it is important that this work be made when making road decisions. Teamworks (PPP) and the so - called transport contract of the capital area. It is essential that the reference levels of roads be clearly stated as soon as possible. It will discuss the implementation of the discounters and will give the smaller portion a special attention to reduced car owners'curses to meet those costs. When this route is implemented, a product product collection of those who have to pass many roadways should be avoided, e.g. to attend service to the capital. That's exactly what I heard in the past. paritaprevir Bergþór son of Ólason, in the early stages of this discussion, says that the idea of borrowing sounds good because taking loans today is very favorable, and growth is low, and even negative in some coins. I agree that that that way should be considered more carefully to ensure financing for implementation. No decision has been made on how to become a financier; ideas on ways that are beyond my means have been set in motion, and they really hit me. I'd just like to come to the same part of the committee party. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. on this cooperation project, by permission of the President: ▪ In cooperation, a private agency will handle total, partial, or otherwise take on the financial risk of making and operating a public monument, with a warrant for payment prior to use. A co-worker becomes a government possession after a contract has been concluded. Current experience and research on such projects suggest that such arrangements should best be carried out on new projects that are broad but well defined. Go on says: While there is an awareness that community opinions on how to take roads are changed, it is clear that with a wide variety of funding and money, projects that could speed up the development of employment, strengthen development, and increase economic growth, competitiveness... All these ideas are a good price to pay, but it must be said, as it is, that it is not a bird but a bird in the forest, and the strangeness of how far this matter has come. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u107	V.E.G. President. I discussed earlier what is involved in the flight of this Parliamentary arrangement by the secretary of transportation and rural administration. I thought it was a bit bad for me to choose between the Akureyri Airport and the Eglial Airport in terms of promoting either airport to international airport. Only one word, take out the word, and put it, and, between the Akureyri and the Egressian position, is needed. Then we've already said we're going to have more openings for the country. But it's also about having more openings away from the country. It is not necessarily given that people should always have to travel through the Cheflavour Airport to travel abroad, yet they seem to be somehow, so that they are the main points, and the rest should be the kind of spare airport. And it's not just about tourists, it's about security. There are also contradictions in this conference's resolution of transportation ministers. A service in the capital area is usually covered by people from the region because there is no other option. I feel that this is a specific surrender, and in particular I feel that it is given to me when it is claimed that the best way to work is based on regional and regional development and that it speaks of positive development in this relationship, which is primarily in improving agricultural quality, i.e. that transport will be as efficient and reliable as possible as possible with emphasis on special parts of the country and the core within them. There are contradictions that I don't feel quite rhyme about. As to the last talks on the city line and how it will squeeze into the family car, I have to say: "It's a fact that cars, as well as walking and riding traffic, will be squeezed. It's not just the car tour that pays off that we're putting 50 billion in an undefined city line, and that's just the initial cost, we usually know how it goes. When a so - called "observation" starts, they often get out of hand. The document discusses the road structure and maintenance and speaks of maintenance as the largest and most expensive event that is ever made. In the context of maintenance, it is intended to preserve the value of road workers, to comply with road width and weight tolerance rules, and to meet traffic security requirements, and to consider that all layer of travel, cycleing, and walking are likely to be considered. And to continue with this, it is expected that the cost of preserving the value of road workers will be increased in the coming years. I like to keep this in mind when we're about to sign an unpublished check, as it's called. It is known that the maintenance cost of preserving the value of road workers will be increased. This is a fact written in this transport program, which is proposed by a transport minister and additionally needs to be able to cope with the maintenance of larger and more expensive workers in the road system, such as tunnel and bridges. There's another item that's being talked about as a cost increase in the years to come, and yet we're actually setting this up in a way that makes city lines more relevant to transport. I refuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u108	Mr. President. I have had a lot of discussions about the ransom that humans have decided to pay on the basis of a city line, and if there is any doubt that there is a genuine ransom, articles and discussions in these last days have really proved that this is so. It has been decided to pay cash to the city line as an attempt to free traffic knots in the capital area. But perhaps not in Reykjavík, but mostly around the city. I would like to quote from that talk. paritaprevir It's going to win the Ásthildur of Andersen that way. Thursday of the transport program where it says, by permission of the President: However, our neighboring communities benefit greatly from the Höfundborg Convention. They are receiving long - awaited roads that have been under way by the government for the past few years, and I congratulate them on this. Above all, they get this city line that I think they don't have to lay out for, the neighboring communities, but they are largely out of the State's hands with some kind of currency. There are more people in this opinion than we Middle Class. The independent party may seem to be split down on a stand on the issue, and it may be understandable, since they are in a smaller part in the mayor than in a greater part in the government, including the U.S. government. with those categories that form the most part of the mayor. So it's hard to do. It seems to me that the Independence Party is just split into a root of the situation, like a rough one. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isafasunson put it that way. It seems to me like I'm going to say something. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen and trajectory of the Morning newspaper this morning and the Eyþór Arnaldur's article, also this morning, that their views on the matter are very different. They may not know what to do or how to act. Of course, it's serious, Mr. President, if there's a price on billions of taxpayers in this country to go on an adventure, according to tradition. paritaprevir Sigrimurs On. Andersen, an unattractive phenomenon. This adventure is to be taken, which comes from the more part of Reykjavík today. Why are we discussing this? Because the economic situation is very different from that of September only when the transport contract of the capital area was signed. Then, in view of that time, the State, neighboring communities of Reykjavík and Reykjavík, under a covenant, wrote nearly 50 billion in the city line. Since then, you have heard larger numbers, and many predict it, and have written about it long and detailed articles, that it will cost much more than these 50 billion. There comes a new senator in the hall, huh? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. I'd like to welcome him, and it's nice to have more members of the council take part in the discussion, but we're discussing this because the state-of-the-art situation is very different from what it was eight months ago, since when this covenant was signed. [[Thank you.]] Today, the financial standing of a government fund is far different and worse than when it was done. Neither can we afford to play with the taxpayers' money as it seems here, i.e. ... witha cityline. Commenting on the fact that evidence is behind the city line, traffic engineer Þórarinn Hjaltason wrote that there is much propaganda behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u109	Mr. President. We continue to talk about transportation. We have considered many questions that fewer answers have come to mind, but hopefully this will become clearer. I have most discussions about what is stated on page 18. 16 and 17 of the Committee's list of objects, i.e. the transport contract. In fact, I have entered more and more matters than the largest individual financial resources of the so - called transport Convention. It would likely be considerably simpler to deal with the situation if the role of the State was clearly set aside when the transport covenant and all of this were involved. I wondered, " What exactly are the members of the Parliament willing to dismiss the matter without having better consideration for the ultimate cost of the State? ' Of course, rural society must be responsible for its affairs. It's really very irresponsible, and I wonder why. Councilmen should not point out the results, how much it will cost if they intend to accept this. It's irresponsible to do what it looks like today. Of course, a transport plan is actually the basis for this capital agreement. And much of the capital agreement is discussed, as well as the city line, and that bix, in the transport program and the members of the section. Distraction is not clear what the State should pay. In fact, this is implied on page 2. 17 The majority of the members of the committee's list of details. A greater part of it is a reason for special consideration of government and rural development when it comes to urban transportation. Of course, the cost of construction is to be watched. I think it's very important that there's a cost shift before we go on such a project as this seems to be the case. There's no such thing. However, all kinds of exercise are being offered to get funding into the work of the State; sale or use of land, bankers, etc. All of this, of course, is preconceived, for we do not know whether we can sell a bank or what it can buy. It's a little like the thought of a young man that's gonna be fine. We cannot allow ourselves to do so in today's state funds. Unfortunately, we have returned with a debt fund. This epidemic and the economic depression that had begun before it struck. Thereafter, it is clear that the government's income will be drawn together over the months and even years. As a result, it is even more irresponsible to have no further notice than this is expected of many regarding the share of the State in e.g. this town line. I think it would be better for all to see this more clearly, both for those who are skeptics of the project and for those who are fulfilled. If we could create a frame that is safer than the one we have today, they would at the same time be using better weapons to fight for the project, fighting for the project. Although the person here does not like the project and does not want it to go that way, it has to be said that, as it is, once things are cared for as far as possible, e.g. Of course, it is difficult to resist such projects. But I think it would have been better to keep trying to teach people how to use public transportation before going to this expedition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u110	A respectable president. In this talk, I would like to continue my discussion of how Reykjavík is trusted in organizational matters. But I'm gonna take a little ride. This is because today there was talk at the highest level. A secretary of transportation answered my unprepared inquiry as to what issues would be delayed if the process of transportation was not currently accepted. V.E.G. A minister went to a big show called the Frontline at Station 2 yesterday, where I think he said four times that he just didn't believe that some party at the council was going to get in the way of projects in the country. There's nothing further off us in the Middle East than building a stone on the street. It's just that way. They know everyone who's been watching our work. The fact is, we want to put a rock in the street to open up the cash from a government fund through a so - called city line, where all the planks are badly built, whether the initial investment costs, so that the management is not spoken of, since there are no plans, even if the furniture has been designed in the waiting clouds. They're to be introduced in a court hall in two days' time. What worries me is words of the highest. A secretary of transportation to an interview at the ml.is, by permission of a president: If the bills are not approved, the road type has not been authorized to negotiate, any invitations are delayed, preparation is delayed, and this will delay the entire project. It looks like the highest. Ministers are drawing up the image or making an attempt to make sure that it is only going to land in a hard stop if the current non-percent transport strategy will not be completed today. It is said in a dramatic way that one day during a discussion here corresponds to major delays in performance. But what is the reality? It was pretty good this morning when it was the highest. A minister answered my unsubstantiated inquiry regarding any task that would be delayed. V.E.G. A minister could not mention a single project, not one, that would be delayed. The fact is, it is in the value of a transport program adopted by the Council over a year ago. The European Parliament's legislation on transport is aimed at reviewing transport plans at less than once every three years. There's no timeweight. A few weeks ago, probably two months ago, at the Assembly Hall, a financial bill was adopted, framed in the government's 15 billion investment campaign, of which 6.5 billion went to transport, and of the amount of over 1,800 million for the design and development of roads. Thus, it is not an assignment to be delayed, although the members of the Central Party would like to discuss this city line in more detail than has been permitted or done so far. It's just that things are going well, and so-called PPP, the co-operation thing that I imagine to the highest. Even the secretary of transportation is not on the program. It seems to be at the highest level. Ministers have chosen a course that was least of those who were available to provide these tasks, which can be truly excellent. But no one has to argue that here for a few hours with us middle party members of the United States is stalling the Sunway, stalling a double Havelf - a tunnel, holding a tunnel through a mountain of testing. What is this nonsense? The fairy - year bridge, where roadmaking has reported that it is unrealistic to get started earlier than 2022. It will not be delayed by the discussion of the city line here today. It's all so fucked up at the highest. Minister that he will be at some point looking at himself and reaching out for how this bix works all together, because the answers of the day and the interview yesterday in the VlV line are very clear that he does not have these plans in his fingers, so to speak, in terms of feeling. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u111	Mr. President. It is very important to discuss difficult and complex matters when highly educated experts add up their language. For example, in the Morning newspaper today, a very interesting article was published by a former professor of engineering at the University of Iceland, Jónas Elíasson, in the university professor emeriatus. He's left his city line on and wrote about it at least A few articles I can remember in my face. This, of course, is a point he has expertise in being an engineer and an engineer. He points out in his article, Mr. President, that private cars are the patient part of traffic. He also points out and backs up that claim by saying that they are four times longer when the dam costs 30 minutes a delay in a ten - minute distance, but most people are going to take it, he says. It's different with professional cars. He says that when they are 30 minutes late in a ten - minute process, their performances fall down to one - fourth, and Professor emeratus says, with permission from the president: ▪ And how will this be responded? They're buying extra cars, and they're raising the price of the match. It's already started. He went on to show that the more difficult neighborhoods in downtown areas are already about twice as high as anywhere else. According to the professor, the construction cost of an apartment is 10 to 20 million higher. He goes on to say that the dam has come to stay, and the bus cannot safely pass through the pack, although on specific roads. He's got to make turns, too. Consider the consequences of the environment and the climate of what the professor is saying, with the permission of a president: But the fuel that goes to the heart is the most likely fuel. The dams are now estimated to take up to 20 tons (about 10 years ago) per day in an additional fuel waste. This is about 2% of the nation's fuel expenditure, if defined by the energy agency's fuel accounting. To correct this is most likely the most effective environmental action available today in Iceland. All these waters fall to the ground of animals. It is not just that the project is being built on a financial level, with no cost - making schemes, no business analysis, and so forth, but it is also damaging to the environment and climate, especially as the professor runs the morning newspaper today. It is available to anyone who wants to see it. Of course, I need to cover more of this matter and wait for it to happen. Mr President, would you please put me back on the rosary? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u112	Mr. President. The basic theme of the protest of those who have strongly recommended the city line, particularly the mayor's section in Reykjavík, has been responding to mob forecasts, assuming that the population of the capital area will increase by up to 70,000 people to the year 2040. We have seen that evolution is somewhat different from that of people who may have been predicting a significant rise in rural areas around the capital area, at Selephosss, in Whos, in the City of Aargh, and in Smokeynestown in Southnes, for example. This is simply because the development of real - estate prices in Reykjavík has been in such a way that buying homes in those areas is much less expensive. It makes it possible for people not as much to shop for property in Reykjavík but to look to the areas that I mentioned. This shows that it is not absolutely clear that the forecasting of the city's city line project is as realistic as it is at first glance. It's quite clear, and I've mentioned it in previous talks, that the high risk comes with this urban project. Some have pointed to this and even to that fact. Those who are well - acquainted, experts in these areas, have the potential for making the cost much greater than has been discussed. In addition, keep it in place for purchase prices on these special buses, which are available for use, is not included in that schedule. I don't think that's good enough. Of course, their price should be involved, the total cost should be available. And then the cost of sacrifice - has it been determined who it is because of the city line? They are being sacrificed for cars, they are sacrificed for wagons that are to be driven every five to ten minutes, and the parking lot is reduced, and it is also at a price for this construction project for the next 10 to show the next 1515 years, with its own discomfort and discomfort for those living next to it. There are a number of people who are worried about it and who have sent in reviews that the way they have drawn up is very close to an apartment area and that reduces the quality of life of the people around it. Then it's clear that there's a loss on this operation, I think it's clear, but the bus system is being run with a loss today. Farming is going to have to be the source of that loss. Experts who know best about these things also feel that it is unrealistic to plan to increase the number of people using buses from 4% to 12%. Then you ask yourself, " If so much uncertainty exists that so many people are going to take advantage of this expensive structure, why is this thing being started? ' A combined loss can study billions of years each year, and why is it not all spoken of? That's what you're wondering. And who's going to be the source of it? Is this to be the case so that a government fund will come about to pay for this future assignment? There is something that, of course, must be discussed here and add the lines. Mr. President. I see my time is over and I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u113	President. I saw the Internet to my joy, I guess. Also, the senator, he was giving his 30th talk on these matters. I think it's a bit of a breakthrough and chose to come up here and wish for it. Congratulations to a senator. I myself have worked hard to develop and write various forms of text, knowing that it is important to the core of my thinking, to get it off in short, and to make a point. I just wanted to ask you what. A senator whether there is anything that can help him to core his thinking about a transportation program so that he may not need 30 more talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who may have been more invited to assist with a public talk, if understood. A senator is correct. I'll say no to help politely. I'll tell you what. A senator, if he believes that I have not been nuclear enough in these 30 talks I have given here, to review them carefully, and to point out if I have ever delivered the same talk twice. Has a what? A senator investigated this? No, he hasn't checked. I haven't. It's a transport plan. It's a big project, and I think I've spent close to 20 talks discussing the various transport projects and especially in the Southern District, my district, because there's a lot of projects to mention. It is only natural that members of the Parliament mention the tasks that might be next to them, highlighting what might be better done in the district, etc., and I think that I did it pretty well. When I had virtually completed that coverage, I began to cover the city line because it is one of the most extensive transport projects and the most expensive funds for the government. I think it's perfectly normal to do exactly the sewing on that project, and as I'm on a financial committee, I'm deeply concerned with the substantial costs that the state fund has to take on this project alone at the same time as the tire of a government fund has reached 300 billion. We're seeing a lot of cuts and economics, and I'm very concerned that we're going here, the capital or the greater part, and the government, going to approve the expenditures of that amount, worth tens of billions, on this project. [[The president calls.]] I think, yeah. A senator, that I have only made good use of this time, and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u115	President. Good to hear. The reason I asked is especially because we also agreed on a travel program last year, and that was why. A senator did not need to talk so much about a transport plan, in fact nothing like what he now believes is his democratic duty and how others are. People of the Central Party. So I want to ask you why. A member of the council: Did he put on guard last year, or was he not doing his duty at that time?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u116	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to see that. A senator is very alert to the number of speeches I have in mind at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u117	That's what you have to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u118	Yes, that is exactly what it is, so it would be a pleasure if it were. A senator would join us in this discussion. He has strong opinions on the city line and its excellence, but he does not want to participate in the discussion. [[Up front.]] I think it's very strange. A senator can come here and criticize the fact that we in the Central Party are giving it a number of talks and speaking so much at the last council, etc. The point is, it's just better if we do what we do. A senator took part in this discussion and criticized what he feels is not right. It would be perfectly normal for him to do so. I think I just have to be happy. A senator by my particular attitude right now. About what I talked about at the last council, I don't remember it that clearly, but I can recall it. No doubt there were many important matters and especially those that turned toward the South Sea, which I have a special interest in and have covered carefully and will continue to do so. But what has to do with this now and the reason why I'm talking a little longer and giving more talks this time on the transportation program is exactly the city line project, the great cost it brings, and the status of the state fund. Don't forget that. A senator, in the state funds situation, has been changed completely since we discussed the last transport program. That is why it is perfectly normal, especially for a senator like me, on a budgetary committee, that I get my stitches to see if this project is necessary and reasonable, especially in view of the high cost and status of state funds and economics today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u119	Mr. President. As I explained in my last talk, I would have liked to discuss the opinion of the committee that appeared between the former and the second. and intend to go over it as soon as possible. In the meantime, however, something has been happening that made me feel that it was necessary to step back to one specific point in a road program called a city line. Senators have been expressing themselves outside these halls on that matter, and I have felt that their declarations, both governments and other members of the council, were antiauthority, i.e. Unlike the middle class, there is evidence that this discussion has not been followed closely enough. That's possible. Because, to a large extent, she went through at night. So I'm now trying to explain in the shortest and simplest case the problem with this urban idea is that there's some explanation here from the spokesmen of the case that can relieve us of these concerns or at least that there may be some evidence that our concerns are not valid according to the individual's opinion. The city line, this enormously expensive project, typically a project designed for rural development, even state, in difficulties in the years and decades ahead, is designed to reduce traffic speed rather than to release the successful traffic jams that have become a major problem in Reykjavík. In this regard, they will spend enormous amounts of money, but it is not known how to raise these funds. There's some ideas about even selling Iceland banks. It's to sell the Netherlands and pay some new fees, some new taxes, on road users in the capital area. But it is not enough, if all of this treasure wealth is taken, that driving is blocked by taking one lane in each direction, two lanes, to the main roads of the capital area, but it also shows that the city line will have the priority on traffic lights. As the city line approaches, traffic signals change and other traffic are closed in order to let the city line through. This reminds us of an important discussion that has taken place on the light control of so - called New York City. The essential importance of light control in this town, the Eyþór Arnaldur, writes a very interesting and good article in the Morning newspaper today, which reminds us of the importance of light control and the extent to which it can affect driving, from all the necessary activities that have waited too long. But only to attack a brilliant light control could immediately have a very significant effect. This is something that we in the Central Party talked about before our last mayor's election and that of our point friend Vigdís Hauksdóttir. This is a great understanding in the memory of Reykjavík, but for some reason he is completely lacking in the majority of it. You're afraid it's just another step in deliberately pressing the traffic, i.e. not to address this relatively easy case, which is the light control. If the city line is established by the arrangement I mentioned, that it automatically preconceived traffic lights, then all ideas of the brilliant control of traffic signals to increase the flow in the city are gone out of the window because every time city line space comes to the corners of the road, the lights and the whole system get confused. We know how the jams of a single trajectory spread across all nearby streets. Not only will the city line take one lane in each other's traffic, from the family traffic, but it will also make the light control worse than it is now, and prevent very reasonable, relatively cheap, and simple ideas about improving traffic flow to the greatest degree by adjusting light control.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u120	V.E.G. President. I discussed earlier today how society seems to have come to recognize the methods of transportation under discussion and found the last speaker, however. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, did quite well over what I was wondering, so I'm just gonna wait on it. But I was reading my seat from a review from the Association I was actually quoting here this morning, too, and I'd like to go out on a little country, as I've been doing, in terms of an idea that has not been meant for quite a while but was discussed here ever since, and I find very interesting. It's a path known as the Hunaval route and the Windworld. I'd like to read from the review, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ It cannot be avoided again to draw attention to the fact that, according to the plan for the next 15 years, it is not expected that it will take as much action as preparation [at the so - called [Saavall's] route] in Eastern County and the Windyard Route in Skavegur. For extensive transport improvements, which would be called very late, especially the former, and would be of high significance and positive impact for many, and it would not be that special interests would prevent public road users from reaching 20 miles (0.6 + 18.4 km) on new and well designed roads, a total of 30 miles (17 + 12 km) instead of older and more dangerous roads, a total of 50 miles (0.6 + 18.4 km). There would be no need for a donation from a government fund to be made on the Hunavall Way. It could be fully financed by means of taxpaying, so it is considered to be profitable. In that case, there would be another way to go. ▪ Although these routes are not expected in their rural organization, it is Generalis to shape the policy of transport where highways should lie, but not individual [companyms], although, of course, prisoners will have to take into account the wishes of the local population. Remember that the rural communities have no financial responsibility, nor do they have any grounds, knowledge, or political authority to evaluate the need for community's construction of roads that link whole parts of the country. In fact, this is the case, according to the vision of the writers of the review, that this way was not examined in detail. I understand this because I know a lot about other places, like in the citynes. It discussed taking a bypass, originally planned, when the bridge across the city's fun was built that was to lie down with the beach and get up to town. So when it came to this in the organization, the local community rejected it because, yes, the town had a lot of money because traffic went through it, from service to road users, and probably the same thing applies to the Blysose. I find this very interesting, and, as the passage in this text says, it's a natural thing to enter the Generals Table and be discussed there, but it also shows that it was under discussion around 2011.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u121	V.E.G. President. Last time I reached the road, I was talking about maintenance expenses. This is followed by a substantial review of the design and uncertainty of the budget. For example, during the construction and preparation of roads, we have a four - step plan. First, it is the definition of a project and then the prototype, foreview, and design. When a definition is discussed, the main factors to be considered need to be identified, e.g. road type, length of course and location, design, design, design rate, new structure or rebuilding, etc. Then, at the end of the day, it is called primal code. It is desirable that they lie 8◯12 years before the planned implementation of the project. At such times, the benefits and defects of planning, traffic, landscapes, weather conditions, geology, and other factors are presented. Then there's a huge supply of information. There must be landowners, designs, traffic, weather, and such. The third part is forethought, but the main design of the project ends with it. The need for more extensive data is expected. There's a better definition of traffic, hosting, geology, and other reevaluated activities. This step is designed for man, and amounts are taken in accordance with the above factors, as well as the fact that further research is being made. The final production of final data from the construction of the structure is completed, along with the production of tenders and forecasts. Targets are covered and the products of this step are: Exports, tenders and projections [...], calculators and costs, as well as designers at the cost. The synonym says that there is a big difference in the accuracy of the cost estimates by the design level and that uncertainty and discrepancies are expected according to the design level. The main projects have been set up on land, and I'm going to mention especially north and east to help me understand that. It starts with the ring road, Jack the Witch. It discusses the bridge that we know is the weakest link on the north road if the southern road is closed by natural disasters. Resources are expected to be prepared for the first period of the programme but are proposed to be implemented during the second period. The Northeast Sea through the Shiver River is set in motion to rebuild the main valley through the Shivering River during the second period of the strategy and to put off two single bridges, over the Shiver River, many of whom know and cross the Storm in places that are familiar to many. ▪ West Bjords Road, Ring Road ◯ Explosion Way. The budget is intended for repairs and repairs bound to erosion of the road between the 2nd and 3rd periods of the programme. Waterine road [...] The budget is intended for repair and repair limited erosion during the 3rd season of the programme. These are certain promises, however, that are marked by some uncertainty. Yet, they have come out and written down, so to speak. We hope that it will become a reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u122	V.E.G. President. Can the President tell me the number to which this speech of mine is in this discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u123	The President can't at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u124	I was going to discuss something very different with this talk. I wanted to have a few words about the entrance each time. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son Proppér earlier, who felt that there was a reason to wish it. paritaprevir In particular, Þórarinsson's son's daughter congratulated her 30 talks here. Now, Mr. President, the guy here has 50 talks in the energy package case last year and I don't remember it at all. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has seen reason to congratulate me on that and it doesn't hurt me. As everybody knows who's been staying in this councilroom, there's a why. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has very good advice. This may include: behold, while there are unprepared inquiries here, he leaps between ministers in the course of the minister, and gives them advice free of charge. But now there's a problem. A senator has come out of nowhere, and now he also wants to tell us members of the Middle Class. Of course, we take good counsel, but this leads me to see that the day before yesterday came short. A senator into some kind of dirty business and wanted to work at the council put in the lines on how we should discuss matters in the current discussion. I've got to take it so I'll take it first. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé is moved to come in now and offer to help us write a talk, and we have not lived up to his expectations. The next thing we know is that we need to work on it a little bit so that we do not disappoint him further in our speech. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir The daughter of Birgir's Þórarinsson, of course, that if the case, it had been better than that. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé would have seen fit to participate in this discussion with us, to be here with us on our stand, and to encourage us with critical questions, etc. He has not seen himself able to do so, and this is unfortunate. But the discussion is far from over, so I must hope that as soon as the latter part of the discussion may be resolved, they will find a reason. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has a desire and need to come here and throw some pieces of bread in us of his table of plenty, for as if it were likely not missed by any man whom this council hall has been hosted by then. A member of the former journalist and also a learned historian. I'm sure he has a lot to share with the rest of us who don't share the same background. Mr. President. I have to reiterate my wish. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, come now to play, and honor us all with his presence in the hall, and share in the full and uncircumcised debate at this time. This would surely improve the discussion and deepen it because of what it was doing. A senator, of course, has much knowledge of the subject under discussion and is a special amateur of the construction and operation of a city line. It would be very interesting to get an outline at that point. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér' about what a city line really is, how it is built up. He might lead us away from our error if we are erring somewhere. I'm gonna use this opportunity to challenge this. It's a fine senator to be here with us, to join us. But since I had to use my speaking lesson in this exhortation to him, I must pray to the highest degree. President to put me back on the rosary because I was originally going to discuss everything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u125	A respectable president. I will continue to review what I came into my last talk, which, in fact, was my wonder for the presentation of the highest. A secretary of transportation, when he claims that the issues in the currently discussed program are an alpha and an Omega that will be successful in Iceland. After seeing an interview at the highest. Yesterday, a minister in the Mounting Line of Station 2 and then sees an interview with him that appeared on a mass scale earlier, I cleaned up and attended the Senate resolution adopted for over 12 months, a five-year transport program, while at the same time I adopted a 15-year procedure that is in force and does not require a review of the transport program until after two years from now under law. Likewise, on March 30, 2020, I consulted a resolution adopted by the Council of Congress on a special temporary investment campaign that was originally 15 billion and ended in nearly 18 billion. I considered the funds listed there, the committee books, and the proposed changes, and the speaker's speech in that case, pretty much so. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of the budget board. Looking at these data, the presentation is at the highest level. In this matter, the secretary of transportation is kind of prerogative; to argue that this is the central category of construction. The more you look at the data, the more stupid the approach of the minister becomes, and it makes you wonder if it's the highest. Ministers do not feel or overlook the factors that framed the funding of transport projects now and then the interaction of the current transport programme, the 15 billion investment initiative adopted here on March 30, and the part of the transport process, and then the rest of the transport process. Environmental and Transport Committee, but me and what. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiš arranged a 2nd reduce of the transport and environment committee's share of the case, all agree on it. All members agree on how that amount of money will be taken care of, but this is just so that the funds will not be stuck in their hands until the end of the year. The bill will be submitted October 1st, financial program, which will include this budget of 60 billion, as specified. I think it'll probably be somewhere close to 30 billion of the 60 that go to transport workers. Once that bill has been delivered, we have established our ground as regards the funding of many of the most important projects. To argue that a discussion here for a few hours, most of which are out of the estimated meeting period, is to delay development in the country, is so unlikely that it will not be speaking at all. It would have made sense if it was the highest. A minister would have missed this once in an interview because of the highest level. So a minister would not have thought further about how he would support the importance of the passing of the ice. But when there's a launch from the advance team footprints on community centres, it seems that it was just a line that was put out. When you look at the points, there is no content, just nothing. Of course, they also recall screenshots at the highest level. A secretary of transportation, or some of his employees, found that the PPP case would guarantee 4,000 years of work. In answer to an unprepared inquiry this morning, all of a sudden they're only 1,000 words. Of course, there are double Hahfjörður and Diving when it comes to not changing anything basically in the nation's business in the months ahead, and I'm just praying that the most responsible people in this matter will make any sense of what they are doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u126	A respectable president. The approach of the Independence Party to this matter is a mystery to me. In fact, the Independence Party is split up in this matter, as can be seen to form a series of comments. paritaprevir Sigrimurs Sigríður Andersen speaking on this matter. There she says of the so - called city line, as it puts it, that it is an entirely impossibility. She says that as the city line is now, there seems to be no hand in the fixture of what it is. It also says that this so - called city line is expected to be 50 billion, but it does not allow time for simple, economic road projects to work very quickly, and is also less expensive. Under those words. I want a senator. A word of reason. A member of the Parliament shows that the Independence Party is divided in this matter. Ordinators of the Tomorrow's Oddsson, and Björn Bjarnason, former Minister of Education and Justice, have described very outstanding opinions in the same state those who seem to support the matter are local leaders of the Independence Party and the leadership of the Independence Party, but these same leaders are responsible for the money and show the responsibilities that she has to bear in order to contribute to this mission, where there is no hand at hand, and completely unattainable, as it were. Davíð It's going on. Andersen says, of the government funds of 50 billion. And not only that, but also the sell of the precious Keldnaland. It's been mentioned as selling Iceland Bank into this pit, into this bottomless pit. So it must be very strange and lonely to form a representative of the Independence Party in the mayor to have no further support on its part. Today, a very good article was published by the apparent sense of independence in the mayor's heading for an Uncertain tour, where he deals with these issues. There he says that Reykjavík was in transportation and that the mayor's share had delayed reforms and was confined to driving instead of reforms. In effect, he says that bus transport has extended the week of work. He says that the mayor's independents want to speed up projects and make clever traffic lights. Under these goals and resources, I'd like to take them. They're self-skilled. The Oythian Eyþór Arnaldur says that instead of this, the majority of its object is a city line of solution for everything and everyone, and it's supposed to cost 70 billion, but maybe it has to multiply that number by pi. Pi, as you know, is more than three. The independent polygamy is assuming that this can exceed 200 billion, well over 200 billion, since the last cost scheme was up to 80 billion. Mr. President. Similarly, the Prosecutors of Independence, the Mayor of the Eyþór Arnaldur, considers that the city of Reykjavík is doubled to the city line, and this is done without the funding of the workers and without the availability of a final investment plan and without a management plan. He said that the payment of a city line on a transportation contract is not in hand and that there is no pay on the agenda. Maybe you don't know. Mr. President. It would be worth considering this fine article of the city's city's Eyþór Arnaldur, the odd sense of independence. I'm asking to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u127	Mr. President. I'm going to welcome what seems to be a nation's wake - up interest in the city line and appear in a number of articles during the past few days because of the lack of criticism over the city line. So I'm happy to see this discussion at the conference on transport plans, and the discussion of our middle-class members on the lines of this city specifically and the rest of the things we've found in a transport program, will lead to greater discussions. I think the discussion needs to develop, Mr. President, and if it does and we continue to discuss this in the community, it's more likely that men will make wise decisions and may turn aside from the wrong path if that is the case. So I welcome this discussion, and I'm glad that more and more people have spoken in this matter, especially in the Internet and in newspapers, and this is discussed on radio and in other parts of the community. I think the discussion is very necessary because I have felt that the discussion of the city line is not critical, that it has gone very low, and that it is marked by decorations in a beautiful package, has been presented like a beautiful Christmas package. Men have been reluctant to find this out, and I feel it's bad, Mr. President, if so expensive, an expensive and urgent task, should be given no further discussion, e.g. if it is possible to achieve the same results for much less money and to do this in other ways, as some have noted. I'm not going to discuss it in this talk. However, I intend to consider another subject in this talk that I think very few people realize. I'm going to go over the currency ideas. I don't know if the public in this country realizes how far they are taking traffic. I don't think the public realizes how far this has come. I'm going to use these two minutes of this talk to show how far this has come. In this regard, I'm going to point out three matters of Congress that now exist and will be completed here. In each of these matters, remuneration is mentioned, but all of them have different ways of approaching it. First, it is in a committee study of the transport program. It discusses the payment in a tunnel. It states on page 19. 11 through a tunnel, with President's permission: The EEA also supports the vision that direct contributions from transport and land management programmes depend on part of the implementation costs of soils, and to cut off the traffic capital of parts as well as on the price for operating and maintenance of the tunnel. This committee's study of the transport program suggests that there will be a payoff on a tunnel. This is the first thing. The second issue is the source bill to establish an official transport development body in the capital area, i.e. footways and city lines. What does it say? In the E team 3. Dr. Grill, of the role and assignment of this official community, says, by permission of the President: To collect quick and traffic charges in the capital area, it will be determined by the law to lay on such charges, and to build up the wood of such collections. This is the 2nd General Assembly for reimbursement. Third, there is a bill to legalize road construction projects. It also allows for a pass-by. I don't have time to finish it, but I'm just asking, "Where are we gonna take this thing? What will the discussion be like when it is presented in this poignant manner, Mr. President? Here are three members of Congress, all of whom expect to be paid on different terms on different projects. [[The president calls.]] I will discuss this further in the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u128	Mr. President. I would especially like to visit the city's finances in connection with the city line project and, in fact, the local community in the capital area involved in this work with a trust fund. As noted, if this project is to be started, we do not know what the problem will come about for the future. I don't think people can quite figure out what route they're taking, especially in the state of the economy and the state's status, about to start writing up on a further hundred billion dollars. Not knowing how much it costs to run a city line at the time, as well as already a big loss on the bus ride. It is obvious, and experts have noted that this considerable amount of money will have to be paid every year. Then you ask yourself, " Is this what my rural society can afford and not so much as a trust fund? ' Does a wealth of money afford to take this expensive assignment and place so much money in the current state funds? I don't think so. I'm on a budget board, and I've covered the government's finances in connection with the viral epidemic, and I think it's a big mistake that the government fund is going to deliver tens of millions of dollars on a bus project in the capital area. It is true to mention that in the context of the budgets that we have made here, and that have been discussed in the budget for the viral epidemic, local communities and various members send in the narratives and came to the legal committee, including the city of Reykjavík. It is very interesting to review the comments from Reykjavík to the General Assembly budget for a bill to be added to the budget. It describes the city's financial situation in view of the viral epidemic. I have to say, Mr. President, that I am absolutely doomed to understand how the city of Reykjavík is going to survive the expense of the huge task of the city line, simply because of the financial status of the city. If I cut down on the report from Reykjavík City, it is clear that the outbreak of the virus is both more chronic and deeper than man has ever provided. In addition to the financial resources of the enterprises and the state in a difficult position, the financial resources of the households and the rural groups are also put in place. The largest income stock of the rural community, undergrading, has intertwined, and will likely be furtherATION during this and the next year with increasing unemployment. The same will likely apply to the allocation of an equation fund based on government income and part of the rural population. Companies from sales of possessions, such as weights and cross-cutting, are already well under schedule. I am here to review the money of Reykjavík City after the viral epidemic, as the city of Reykjavík has put in its resignation to the legal committee. I'm asking if Reykjavíkurburg can afford to go to this assignment and then plan to run a city line. I'll continue with my review, which says that the income of the pavilion costs and sales will be very small. At the same time, expenses for well - being increase rapidly, especially financial support for increasing unemployment. At the same time, there is a great cry for service and for contributions from every unit to the population. To sum this up, I see that my time is getting up, Mr. President, I will continue this for the next talk, so it is said in Reykjavíkborg that my income has been highly contracted and does not provide the end of it at the same time that expenses have greatly increased. The County Society of Reykjavík, at the same time, intends to engage in important projects of up to tens of billions of dollars on the basis of city lines. Mr. President. The time has passed, and I wish to be reassigned to a rosary, where I will trace more closely to the city of Reykjavík as they have been submitted to a financial committee and ask whether Reykjavík's capital is in charge of the subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u129	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir A fine talk was given here by the Birgir of Þórarinsson the son of Moriscos, and it included: Only in Reykjavík's financial affairs and intending to review them afterward. This is of interest, especially in view of the fact that the city's capital's point of independence in Reykjavík was exactly warned in the Morning Press today that too much risk was taken with the city's budget in relation to the city's work. In committees, at least According to the Committee on Environment and Transport, the need for investment in the road system is estimated to be close to 400 billion dollars. and will improve the implementation of the programme. There we see an enormous figure, Mr. President, 400 billion bucks. The same time we haven't figured out how we're going to finance all these investments in the whole road system to go on a project that has not yet been identified as having a final number. That's everyone's opinion, I think, that there's going to have to be a lot of work to do in the road system, increase, improve, and work faster on it. There are still many different bridges. We have many roads, though, that are not part of the round road that is still malarkey but that are much driven, perhaps key roads in them. We've got traffic jams in Reykjavík calling for a mixed front, light control, etc. All of this is designed to increase transport safety and is at least Part of it in this 400 billion number set out. It is therefore of concern that in the years before the public transportation that I do not limit myself to being important, there is a certain group of people who choose to use public transportation or who cannot help but use it. So transportation needs to be carefully considered as well. But I don't think it's done with this city line that's been discussed here. It is essential that the number of travel increases, that the cars stop at places that are well defined and such, and I think that it would be better to correct and teach people how to use this method of transportation. Later, if circumstances arise, they may be able to do so, but they are that I do not know today, mostly because both the state funds and the rural communities many, especially Reykjavík, are not prepared to accept the commitments involved. In view of a lower share of two, there is a difference between the two groups. Emphasize the priority of tasks in a specific way, which takes into account the practicality, based standards, equations, and safety. All of this is of great importance because we know that transport is the key to a large number of rural areas, whether it is for resources or to produce products or just for the inhabitants to be able to attend services and other items that are not provided in the home, etc. In the capital area and in the southwestern district, we need to consider how the rapidly growing population of these rural communities can get between their destinations, to and from work, to leisure time, and so forth. While the focus of the local community is on public transportation, as is being done, on a small future project, I am not sure that it will succeed or that it will be well planned on priorities. - I'd like to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u130	V.E.G. President. I'm just gonna grab the ball as fast as I can. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson spoke of his speech and a little bit of the committee's opinion. It shows the will that was clearly the dominant part of the committee. I think, and I've talked about it in talks, that the committee worked very well in other very narrow transport programs, where many projects were given back. The committee has then set them up and made the best of what they could do. But here is a chapter entitled Work on the Committee, which says, by permission of the president: THE committee's meetings were toyed with various views regarding transport programmes to five and 15 years of age. With the highest need to engage in road action, it is urgent that the speed of implementation be exceeded in the target transport program adopted in February 2019. The need for investment in the road system is nearly $400 billion. It also discussed the need to improve seaports in many parts of the country, to strengthen domestic flights, and to promote public transport on land and sea. The committee emphasizes that the road system is the largest individual property in the state, and it is important to maintain it in order to protect previous investments. The need for increased service and maintenance will then have to be considered, and thus the costs must be considered. The Commission feels that there will be an urgent response to the problems that have been raised over the past few years, and it will work to improve the road system and transport as rapidly as possible in terms of the practicality, climate targets, equality, and safety objectives. Work territory has grown, and rural people who work in urban areas are increasing. Special transportation is a key factor in national health care, within and between parts of the country and between the health institutions and the two major hospitals of the country in Akureyri and in Reykjavík. This is the natural principle that I think we all agree on, and it has been observed many times that no one disagrees with the implementation here in the capital area that has been in the low space for a very long time. But the problem is this crazy bastard, let me say, which is the city line. It is unassigned and unappreciative. And as shown in the speech of the dog. paritaprevir Ólafur, son of Ísleifsson, earlier, quoted an article after a former minister and mayor, Davíð the son of Oddsson, probably multiplied it by pi or more than three. I may not have them all straight, but there are more than 200 billion, and they're not snatched up from the street. Whether this business was involved is not in the hands of anything. There is a much greater chance that this would be run with losses compared to the way public transportation has been done in the past few years. I had the hope that we could join in taking quick action, as mentioned two or three years ago. If so, it would be possible to meet the wealthy need to improve their transport systems. The number of visitors has increased dramatically. Although that is not the case right now, in 2018 there were over two million tourists. Heavy transport has increased dramatically, and the problems on the roads are increasing. So the need is urgent, and everyone agrees on this. However, there must be some sense in how things are implemented before making a decision to put into law what is to be done. V.E.G. President. You don't think you'd want to put me back on the rosary?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u131	V.E.G. President. I was trying to review the role of a city line transport strategy that has been well discussed in the media over the last few days. I was trying to make this aspect simpler and to force the principles together, hoping to get some answers in the discussion here at the council from its spokesmen. To date, leading supporters of the matter have been content to evict messages on community medias or to attend radio interviews and talk, in my opinion, completely at odds with the discussion that has taken place here. I'm hoping to get some answers, some response, that can be critical, we comment on this project, and then we try to simplify it and get it together. I had mentioned the funding of a city line, as vague as it is. I had mentioned the effects it has by narrowing traffic and preventing the possibility of a better light control in the capital area, which is a key key factor in the use of traffic. And, of course, I had mentioned the effects of spending enormous funds on this problem that would not be useful in transporting better flows. However, I would make a comment to the idea of running a double public transport system in the capital area. Today, the capital area, known as human knowledge, is a highly populated area in relation to what people know in many European cities that have built up since the Middle Ages with dense nucleus and have a completely different basis for public transport. But here we are planning a transport system that would be better off in such a city for Iceland's straddling capital. Not enough of this, but the plan will involve a double system, a double bus system actually, in the capital area. As a result, the city line can't get through all the neighborhoods. It depends primarily on the main roads in the region, closing toward the second round. She makes new traffic jams, but she doesn't go into the neighborhood, and then another bus system needs to be done by gathering people in the neighborhood, moving them to the city line. Once the person has reached the destination of the city line, he even has to take another bus to move to the neighborhood where he would like to get to. And how much do they think this is going to cost? We've seen how difficult public transportation has been around here in Iceland, and especially in the capital area, for years and decades. Does anyone think it will be more practical to run a double system? Will anyone claim to have neighborhood street cars that run the streets of the various parts of the city, likely without being able to travel throughout the city, and thus be more compatible with the settlement, at the same time as the city line is on, will arrive in cheaper or more efficient public transportation? I would be very interested in hearing the evidence that it is realistic, if any such reasoning would be in order. But as I mentioned at the outset, it is not surprising that spokesmen of this project have the responsibility to explain its benefits. It would be very interesting to hear if someone could explain to me how it can be more practical to run a double transport system, on the one hand with neighborhoods, and very limited where they can go, and by the way city line, which is in its nature a task that inevitably goes out of control costs. How can it become more practical when these two things come together? I hadn't finished this chapter and waited for it. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u132	V.E.G. President. It is in itself harmful to the highest. The secretary of transportation and rural management should not have seen fit to be in this discussion and to respond to our efforts. I see that today, after lunch, it's at the top. Minister that if transport plans are not approved by the end of the council, it will delay all projects. This has happened at lunchtime, for by noon he could not answer. paritaprevir Ordinary Ólason's brother on what projects would be delayed if these plans were not successful. I don't think anyone in this room right now is particularly interested in the fact that these plans will not be approved by the end of the council. All we feel we have to do is talk about it to a degree and to shed light on it, how it relates to one another, and how it relates to large matters, especially to the capital area. It's so remarkable that these plans in themselves are not the best plans. Rather, they are plans for the council, especially during the season. The Environment and Transport Committee has agreed and installed, including the top members. Minister of the current government. In itself, these issues have been virtually out of atrial in some cases and have not involved. There is no secret, as the minister in this interview says, that we have discussed this matter quite thoroughly. Yet, no progress has been made at the council's time for the discussions, has been at a meeting and part of it outside the council, as has been the case in the past when the media and I have had to comment on certain matters. However, this has not resulted in a delay and much delay in the work of the council, not at all. You have to check that all these events are part of the fact that we're about to complete Congress on a short summer break. Of course, a certain will must be available to settle matters successfully with everyone, and these two matters are only part of it. But as people know, the influence of the forwarding party in this government is almost to the minimum, we should not use it to speak English in that way. By now, a member of the council described him as wearing a belt, bracelets, clothes on a hair top, and new shoes. It hasn't changed much. But because of himself, he is what is called in the English language, unscrupulously sharp, innocent. It's not doing what's happening right now on this land, and it's crystalting even. in relation to the highest grade. Transport and rural Ministers on these two programmes and what is being planned and done in Iceland at this time. I would've liked to have this more word, Mr. President, but unfortunately, my time has run out for me and I'm waiting for the highest. President putting me on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u133	V.E.G. President. I discussed the final talk on roads in so - called northern regions, and I have reached the eastern region, almost to the end of the Senate arrangement. Regarding off-programwork preparation, it states: The budget is for the design of tasks outside of a plan to be implemented later. Circle around the Lager River is called, but the plan is to rebuild the Laer River bridge during the third season of the plan. A lot of people know that this is a very old bridge, built about 1905. The timber floor should be replaced during the first period, although the bridge should be rebuilt during the third season of the schedule. Also, I have to get fixed on poles, which I understand is that the bridge has become quite dangerous. Then a round trip around the south will be called, and significant improvements will be made in the road between the Bay of Breurdals and the Wall Valley. This is also during the third season of the programme. The main elements to be added are in the bottom of a disaster fjords, Stars and Stop Lands, and then back to the South Coast of Faeroes. During the third season of the plan, the plan is to re-dress Lino. That means six monotonous bridges are falling off and the ring road is less than four miles away. This is a third period of time, and it is the ring road of Kotá-Morda where during the third period, it suggests that new bridges will be made over the Ecstasand and Pigs' Slashá, and a new road between Kotár and Mojon, which shortens the circuit by five miles and reduces the number of single bridges by three. At the end of the North Sea around Greenlegs, there is talk of avalanche protection, but North Sea roads and avalanche shielding must be corrected. It is placed in a second period of schedule, and the Roadway is placed in the third period. City soil, Eiðarst Sound: Between these are small butts and amazing things that have happened to him. It is suggested that improvements be made during the first and second periods of the strategy, which are now malarkey. Then there are various sites on Upstate Road, but there are a barrier bound to which there are still maladies and this is to occur during the second season of strategy. This includes what is being done for a specific purpose, as well as what is involved in a common project. There are a number of projects that are below 1 billion. and they are not specifically discussed. It is set in a third period, and it is listed as quite a number of roads here, which are still at first sight to me, quite important. Under the heading Online Roads and bound fragments, we learn that the plan is to strengthen and seal up broken traffic lines and provide guidelines on how to do so. I'm going to do this right now, but I need a president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u134	A respectable president. What stands out for our time, including ours. evere economic contractions, greater than at least For a very long time, serious unemployment, and the natural financial affairs are resolved by this. On the other hand, we face a small number of challenges in a large country that are urgent and urgent for transportation and that affect so - called infrastructure. Then we're talking about roads, bridges, harbors, airports, and such. In this situation, Mr. President, the government's Independence Party considers the best option to set 50 billion dollars. in the so-called city line, which the member of the Independence Party has said entirely unexploited phenomenon, and as it is now, there does not seem to be any hand on the fixedness of it. It is in the circumstances that the Independence Party, responsible for the financial affairs, chooses to offer 50 billion dollars of money from the state fund to this project and to throw after the Feldnalands and even Iceland banks. In fact, it seems that the Independence Party is a serious part of the situation. There is no way to see that the members of the council agree on the matter. Highly regarded independents, former ministers, and leading members of the group have described a very firm stand against this, and today an Eyþór Arnaldur's article, which is the point of independence in the mayor's city, which he deals with in the same way, is strongly opposed to these plans. In fact, Mr. President, in the morning newspaper, there are probably one four articles that oppose the so - called city line very vigorously and defamatoryly. To begin with, I would like to mention an editorial in the magazine, sometimes in two things, but today all are subject to these matters. There, three members of the Middle Party are quoted, and they are the president of the Party, hm. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and the middle tribe's representative at noon. Environmental and Transport Committee, eh. Councilmen Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Bergþór Ólason. Then there is the article I was witnessing after Arnalds and an article that I quoted earlier today from a former professor at the University of Iceland, Geir the Ágústsson of Elíasson, and the editor of St. All this material is of the same nature as the speech of our Middle Class here on these topics. By permission of the president, Arnaldur's Aegean Punishment of the Mayor of Independence, in his article: ▪ The time has long come for major transport campaigns to take place in the capital area. - And now I'd like to say very much as we've been saying, Middle-class. - Reggavik has been waiting and funding has gone elsewhere. The city has turned down construction funds. A self - appointed construction stop was formed in what has been called a 10-year experiment on which important projects were put on ice have created a transport problem. I don't see any practical solutions he makes, light control, and other aspects of that kind, and different corners of the street, I expect him to have in mind. He says, with President's permission: A project that is to cost more than 70 billion is replaced by uncertainty. This is done at the same time as a combined income crisis due to a fungal crisis. Would it not be easier to apply what is truly effective, predictable, and reasonable? Is there hope for the man to ask? Mr. President. I ask to be reassigned to the rosary in order to discuss these subjects in detail.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u135	Mr. President. During my last talk, I reviewed government currency ideas and thought about finishing them in this talk. I'm not sure the public in this country has come to realize how far these ideas have gone. People may not realize that it has already come into two basics and a concierge form on the part of the government. But what I could most find was that the ideas were to be expressed in such a fragile way that they would appear in three different politics during this council. The budget is presented in different ways in three political matters. I would have liked to see the government come up with a comprehensive policy regarding the payoff. I'd like to remind you, Mr. President that we have not yet seen an implementation of government currency ideas. That is actually the fourth matter, government currency ideas due to transport energy exchange. That's not the thing that's been coming in here. Even now, though, there are three issues that all of us preach in different ways as a result of a traffic exchange. I already considered the first case, i.e. The review of more part of the environment and transport committee, on page 5. 1 1 1 on a tunnel. It assumes that if a tunnel is to be completed in the near future, there will be a business and some arrangements that will be financed by currency through the tunnel. This is, in my opinion, the idea that comes out there. We haven't seen it this straight in the bill of directorship. Number two is a bill to establish an official transport business in the capital area. I had read that one of the social goals and activities was to collect quick charges, as they are now called, from traffic in the capital area. You might spend a lot of time reviewing the work assigned to that partner in the bill, and you could find a number of factors because, if you go over the bill, it seems that there is going to be an all - out state of the state to run transportation in the capital area, both projects and charge costs. A large part of this 120 billion bucks. The budget should be financed by quick charges. Big part. So there are things to be expected. It should be noted here that it is just one of three currency ideas and that it would be worth a better consideration later on. The third thing that I couldn't do in my last talk was the bill on the cooperation of road projects, i.e. It's a administrative bill, and it's inaccessible, as are the others, and it's also expected to be paid for. And where is it? It is to finance six projects mentioned in the bill. One - year - old bridge in my district includes, a lowland road through the Valley of Mice, and through a mountain of testing and the Horn of the Earth, Axi, and other such projects. These projects are expected to be financed by remuneration. This is the third idea of currency. Mr. President. If all of this becomes reality in such a different way, what ideas will arise next? What do road users who travel from Hornfjord to Reykjavík and pass through four, five target gates when compared with, for example, those who go to the city of Reykjavík. Passers from Hólmavívík, who don't pass through any gate? Of course, it requires that these road users also pay what is due.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u136	Mr. President. I was on my final talk on the financial affairs of Reykjavík and the rural society of the city project. As a result of the viral epidemic, the financial situation of these rural communities, as well as the State, has also taken a major blow and is heading for at least 300 billion bucks. weighting on state funds because of the virus epidemic. When we spoke on the budget proposals, we had visitors and envelopes, including. from the rural areas in the capital area and from Reykjavíkurburg. Interestingly, at the same time as the rural areas and the city of Reykjavík are planning to attack the urban project, they have suffered a significant drop in income and are heading for a high angle to their operation, e.g. Reykjavíkurburg. At the same time, millions of dollars are to be carried out. It is difficult to see, Mr. President, how to carry out this assignment in these economic conditions. Reykjavíkurburg is a financial committee in which it is actually asking for financial support from the state fund because of the viral epidemic. At the same time, the city's speedy pace is turning toward setting up a city line worth tens of billions of dollars, to a second hundred billion dollars, which is sure to exceed all plans. Mr. President. I have to say, I feel very strange that this project has not been blown off in view of the local financial status, the financial status of the state funds, and all that countries and rural society have had to deal with because of the virus epidemic. This alone is a reason to blow this project off. But clearly not. It's very interesting to review the comments of Reykjavík, New York, on the budget bill number two. That's where even the two of them come from. Until Reykjavíkurburg has achieved analysis of the economic impact of the viral epidemic on the city's financial situation, with permission of the President: The City of Reggas now estimates that the next two years there will be payback under the income of 2019 and a total of 16.8 billion under budget 2020 and 2021. It is then estimated that income from building rights sales and street expenses is reduced by more than 8 billion at the same time. Predictions on the development of the workforce give every reason to believe that there will be a large increase in the number of people in need of financial support and that costs for it will increase by 900 million. K. This year, beyond budget, approximately 2,200 billion. K. Next year and about 8,700 million. K. above budget 2022 to 2024 Mr. President. It is clear that Reykjavík's operation is entirely in irons, and the virus epidemic has had a tremendous impact. At the same time, this enormous and costly project is to be attacked. This doesn't make sense, Mr. President. It's just that it has to be said right now. It does not make sense to plan on such massive expenditures as the income of rural society in the capital area and Reykjavíkurburg have been severely combined, as I mentioned for financial reasons, etc. In a review of Reykjavíkurburg to a financial committee, where the city is actually seeking financial support from a government fund for the viral epidemic, says the president: However, at the same time, the city's budget is expected to be negative to 2020 and 2020, as well as a very high budget of 2022 mouse/2024, or about 36.5 billion, all over the city's budget, or about 36.5 billion, combined in 2020 and 2021. Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] This rural society is going to implement another hundred billion people in a city line. [[The president calls.]] This doesn't make sense. I'd like to ask Mr. President to put me back on the rosary as I have to discuss this matter in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u137	V.E.G. President. It was interesting to hear it. paritaprevir Birgir Þórðarson reviews the figures and status of Reykjavíkurburg when it comes to all of these matters together. It is true that there is a responsibility to take on the projects that are facing a high priority. The fact that a community that is active in the way the city is, it does indicate, however, that the economic situation is not much of a concern but is taking great chances. Perhaps the very idea is to send the bill to the state funds when it is due. Now the rural communities around the capital stand a little better, some of them a little more than a little better. Nevertheless, it would be a great deal for them to get their bills at the same time for this great project. No one else can think of a city in Reykjavík at some point pressured these rural communities to put more into the bag to the conclusion that the city cannot accept its responsibility in this matter. In fact, this leads to a different matter, Mr. President, and that is the declarations of several government officials, including the highest. A minister of transportation, in the media about the possibility that so many projects will delay or will not be able to start until this discussion is completed. I think it's very important that those who speak in that way, including the highest. Minister, come here and tell us exactly what to do. It has been pointed out, including of what? paritaprevir Ergtreri Ólason, that the projects involved are on schedule and have been assured of funding for them, including ... inannuendos. As a result, we must ask, since the media do not follow up on the question that is natural to ask when an assignment of billions of dollars falls overboard or does not become a reality: What is the task? What are some things that cannot be started this weekend? I think it's very important to find answers to that question. It is impossible for politicians who say they can get away with not answering the question about the assignment. There's a lot to say in the media, it stops, it stops, it doesn't stay, and it doesn't happen. However, there is a need for that reasoning. And I have to say, it's disappointing to see how little journalists and reporters have followed up on that question. There is, however, no reason to stand here and be ashamed of that wonderful people. We're discussing the transport plan and the uncertainty of certain aspects of it. The most uncertain of all is this capital contract, or what we call it, this Ohf. company, which is discussed in another language, which is next on the agenda for this meeting. This does not change the basis for a city line, to start the company, to work in the transport program. As a result, we naturally discuss the city line. At the same time, we will make the clear requirement that those measuring for the project come up and tell us, tell the inhabitants of the southwest corner, how they intend to improve transport for their private car, the transportation that most people prefer to use and use at the same time. Of course, those who do not have a car or who do not want to own a car must be faced with it. But not to be overlooked is the large group that chooses this journey. It is an amazing socialism in the administrations of an intention to know and torture people about leaving the private car and across into public transportation, as the government seems to think people are supposed to travel. The underlying need seems to be shown that many people want to use public transportation, not just those over 4% who do so today. It has taken ten years to raise from these 4% who used it ten years ago, or what it was, and nothing has happened in it. It is still the same small group that uses public transportation, and it may be wise to consider how to expand that share before continuing to do such work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u138	Mr. President. I hear the comments of several government officials in the media tonight that's not because I'm a little more concerned about the city line. In fact, I think it would be much more efficient if the ones in the media or on social media with claims simply came up and even talks were to point out their sides and answer us and our concerns. But in view of the fact that they are weak. The members of Congress do not seem to have noticed our basic language, so I am trying to cross it into things that are shortest and simplest, and to draw out the main points in the hope that they will be there and respond to it, answer our concerns. I began to describe how strange it really is for Reykjavíkurburg, the rural areas here in the capital area, and apparently the state, to run twice the public transportation system in the capital area in view of the difficulty of driving the only system of buses that has ever been present and how expensive it has been. We have mentioned the attempt to promote public transportation, which began about a decade ago and appeared. in what has been called red carpets, the special lane for buses, and about a billion dollars in the state each year to get more people to take the bus. The best thing to do is to say that in the past ten years, no one has been there, and actually from the city I take it - it would be nice if any member of the management board or advocate of this case could correct me, I am wrong - that even the use of public transportation has been added. After the network was changed and the number of wagons had to be replaced, it was not able to get into one chariot and reach the destination but had to be divided to a greater extent than that, twice that number. The insecurities or inconvenience for a passenger who has to change a car means that his journey is considered to be two trips, counted each time someone enters the bus, and although men are just moving from place A to place B, that now counts as two trips. This raises the question: What is really the result? Is there even a recession on the use of public transport, despite this huge effort in the last decade? It makes it even more strange that in view of that experience, people decide to extend something that did not work out with comparable financial contributions over the next few years and that the government puts enormous financial resources and tax efforts on the public to establish a secondary culture system, to run a double system. But it was a top story last night when we heard it from city officials and even from snarls. Senators are talking about the need for a train system too. Then people are moving to run a triple public transport system, unable to run a single system in the way that meets the needs of consumers and taxpayers. I have to say here a few words about how this dual or triple system will actually appear. I'll start with the double system. There is a certain benefit in the fact that this is the city's research report on the first stage of the city line that will be about to be 1 915 km, I think, which happens to be as far as a famous city line project in Edinburgh, which went, as I have traced, far beyond the expense plan. But here's only the first leg as big as Edinburgh's famous one. Mr. President. It's really hard for you to deal with this, just when you're moving around, to be stopped in the middle of a talk. But I understand that the President has no other option, asking to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u139	Mr. President. In this speech, I plan to review the concerns I now have of my investment costs of the work being planned into the transport contract of the capital and then my concern for the future operations of the machine. For example, it is clearly stated in the opinion of a greater part of the transport committee that public transport in the rural community is responsible. But the situation is that in connection with the construction stop that has been in the capital area for about a decade, with a billion a year's losses in the bus, the government has said: "We're willing to negotiate this, we're willing to look at it. It's the thing that I think we have to look and frame in such a way, and put fences in this case, that it won't be on an automatic assembly when the investment is all about the garden becomes a reality at some point. It would also be possible to plan a pre-running drive in a rural society, where it would take half a billion people to renovate and other projects we know from the news to proceed; it does not matter whether they are play-school buildings, projects related to village or other settlements; it seems to exceed a schedule being carried out here in the capital area. Let's aim for 50 billion plus. By that time, I'm guessing the bus's final impact will still be on business today. Then there's the city line business, and I'm afraid - with the high frequency reported to be in cars, which will also cause the number of days to be fewer in each car, that's obvious to me - that the city's surface model itself will be unsuspecting. Let's just approach it with wide eyes. Based on the way the bus has worked, with the practicality available there, I believe it is impossible to adjust the city line so that the income of passengers is under operation. Let's just assume that this is absolutely impossible because I think it's real. It follows: Will local communities, neighboring communities of the capital area, which are part of this transport contract, and Reykjavíkurburg, take up this business? With experience, and by listening and reading into what the mayor has said in interviews, it seems to be the plan of the rural community to look to the government's graces when it comes to running the slot. We can't finish this without going through it, even though it's claimed here that the business has nothing to do with it. Of course it's business. If a government fund is going to put 50 billion into this pant, it will not stand to reason to believe that once 50 billion people are put in the investment, it's just government funds: No, it's only part of the community. Of course, the wealth of state will be very hard to support in the urban business, just as it was at the highest level. Transporter has extended billions of dollars of support to the bus. Despite the completion of a construction stop, all signal signals of the transport minister and the government are in place that governments are ready to be involved in the construction of a city line. Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, so I name a member of Congress, claiming that this is not a direct case, we must allow ourselves to watch the big movie. Then I'll talk about the whole transport contract, the city line, the operation of the city in due time, bustos, cooperation projects called the PPP, and the Ohf., about the city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u140	Mr. President. I have in the talks that I have so far moved somewhat of my focus on projects in the capital area or in one way or another. And it is certain that what I want to discuss in this talk is certainly an aspect of the capital area, as well as the whole country. Yeah, I'm talking about a Reykjavík airport in the Radial. It is not enough that Reykjavíkurmur Airport in Watermamur is a very large workplace with 600 jobs or so, it is also the lifeblood of international air transport. The current mayor's work has been progressive for a number of years to tear down this airport, on slices like this, and make it unusable. Now one of these slices is planned. It is to be moved to a cut - off area and, as a matter of fact, closer and closer to the first draught, indeed, that a road would be constructed through the airport shelter of Enis. At the same time, the city authorities and the government lay 200 million. K. To explore the possibility of building a new airport at 20 miles [20 km] of air from the Cheflavík International Airport in a windy environment - this is what I say, driving this route every day back and forth for eleven years - to the surface of a waterproof zone. In this regard, the authorities are putting 200 billion. K. Mr. President. My project is that if Reykjavík's airport in the Waterstorm is destroyed, it will at the same time be the end of an internal flight as we know it. But as this government often does, it is as if the left hand does not know what the right hand does or does. Meanwhile, the government looks at the constantly crowding towards Reykjavíkur Airport and plans to pick up some phenomenon called the Scottish way, but it does not seem to work here as it works in Scotland but let it go between parts of Scotland. At the same time, this field is to be squeezed into, which is the lifeline of population transport in the air within the country. Use probe, if I know correctly, this court and its location were one of the reasons for building Lands Hospitals at the intended site and likely the most expensive mistakes in Iceland when it will be realized except the city line tops it. I have to ask, Mr. President, what will happen to an investment in this hospital if the airport becomes gradually decommissioned and disabled? People have talked about helicopters, but first, it doesn't always work for them, and second, it's a much slow vehicle, much more than a plane. Regarding the helicopter that has been introduced on the roof of the hospital building, it has been pointed out that it is simply an impenetrable way to build up, as expected. So the mayor of Reykjavík is trying to make Reykjavík a sleeping town by strangling all the transportation resources within the city and the capital area and by pressing so that the airport will be expected to fail within a few years. So this is more painful, Mr. President, because there have been probably three contracts, if I recall correctly, about Reykjavíkur Airport and his future as mayor of Reykjavík, which has begun to cheat before the ink went dry on the relevant contract. I was going to have this more word, Mr. President, but I see that I can't go any further at the time I'm being dosed, so I'm asking that I be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u141	Mr. President. I'm almost at the end of this council resolution proposal for transport and rural government ministers for the years 202020-52034. I'm here to see what's about a bound-up fence on the road. It is intended to improve roads that are small and that are bound to break them. It must be added even to the corners and blind hills and will be used for the appropriate counterweight measures, as it is called in the panel. Turns will be marked by a guide's speed and direction arrow, and blind hills will be painted with a full line and marked with a suitable traffic signal. To be sure, injection procedures for security will be followed. That sounds really good. As a result of these measures, the road structure is fairly certain that there can be a delay in the fixation of limited traffic barriers without a loss of safety. It's only about the bridges. On the one hand, it is talking about craming bridges or replacing one - wide bridges and reputing that there are 677 bridges and 36 of them in the round road. There's something about repetition here. I like the chapter on bicycle and footpaths outside the capital area. It is very important to consider the safety of those who choose to ride the roads of the country. It is thought that participation in the road generation will be up to half of the cost, except on the long road outside the capital area, where the cost of the event can be increased. Cording aims for bicycle drivers not to be allowed on foot. I think it's a very good thing. It also discusses fences, and it is of considerable importance. Although it may seem less important to someone, it is of utmost importance when we are dealing with fence security. On page 18. 70 points out that during the past few years, there have been an animal tunnel project and that projects will be completed in 2020, this year. This program says that implementation on Fjords will begin in 2022 and then attack a tunnel between Sun Earth and Snowfjords, which we often call "Furfjords." There will also be ways to finance double Hölfhjörður and a tunnel into Mount Try, with cooperation with private citizens. I'd like to see the future that's being drawn here. It's the trails that have been discussed; Icefjords of the Sports, Máljónslóttttirs, Shillusfjörður, Mullabholes, development of heavy traffic, but I'm afraid it's time to get there early, and then the Whalensk, The Lionhöngs, the Grinchholes, and the tunnels between weapons and the Shires. It is expected that direct donations from a transport program and a land tunnel plan will be less than half the cost of construction at a tunnel, but it is always intended to be passed through a tunnel. I think that's a good way to get the project started, and it's gonna be okay together. Then we are at last to the chapter on the transport agreement signed on 26 September 2019 by the state and rural areas in the capital area, involved in planning and funding the development of transport wood, including the infrastructure of public transport in the capital area to 15 years of age.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u142	Mr. President. It is necessary that government decisions be based on the best available knowledge about what we are dealing with at any time. With middle class members who have discussed this matter somewhat, a transport plan, and including the so - called city line, they have led to experts, engineers, university professors, and others like them. So it was that some time ago the city line was dealt with in a practical way. This was done in a BS report for economics in October 2018 called the national economic economics of a city line. Cost and benefit analysis. For an explanation, I would like to mention that it is an economic method that involves evaluating the cost of implementation and, on the other hand, the benefits it brings and seeking to assess the benefits of making money where possible. When the sizes of these figures are compared, there's no picture of the case. If the benefits are greater than the costs, as measured in such analysis, then it is likely to take place. On the other hand, if the cost goes beyond the profit or gain, you might think twice. The author of this essay is Pálmi Sigurjónsson, the instructor of Professor Ragnar Árnason, who is written at the University of Iceland's Economics. The author introduces this essay with an outline in which he even says it. recently, there has been a lot of talk in the community about traffic pressures and delays in the rush hours in the capital area. According to one author, the city line has often come up in this same discussion as a solution to the problem. But is it really so? asks the author. He says that the establishment of a new public transport system has enormous costs and that without a large increase in public transport user groups, such projects may not pay off. He puts this into practice by saying that not everyone agrees on whether this is the right way to face a heavy traffic load, i.e. to attack this so - called city line or whether to seek other advice. One author explains his method by saying that the plans and goals for the proposed city line are considered, as he puts it. He gathers all the costs of the project from the cost of operating. On the other hand, because of the town line, society's benefits are examined, and these are for the development of the so - called external effects of the city. However, one author says that the cost and benefits of the city line depend on the development of tourism in the capital area. He examines four case cases of traffic development and then evaluates the cost and benefits of each net assessment or cost on a case by case basis. The conclusion of this essay, as it is described on page, is far less likely to be said, Mr. President. 51, it is not that the construction of a city line in the capital area is a national cost. By permission of the President, the author says: A study would require another way to meet the massive traffic jam in which the capital area resides at high times. I'm interested in mountains more closely, and I think the need to trace more accurately the contents of this essay and therefore check to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u143	Mr. President. In my last talk, I spoke of government currency. I've studied the politics that covered and that really paid for it. This is where I refer to a bill for a co-work project on road construction, a bill for a license to establish an official participation of transport infrastructure in the capital area and, finally, the transport process itself. All these administrations are expected to be paid in a very different way. The distribution varies due to different tasks and the availability of the public, public and private partner. One deals with tunnels, another on cooperation projects, and one about transportation in the capital area. The government's greed ideas are very fragile. We see them in three politics. I call upon them to be put forward collectively with the aim that the public sees the cards, that this is not done as it appears. I doubt, Mr President, that the public is aware of this altogether. Indeed, tax costs have been discussed for a few years. The public may not know because these three matters are for the treatment of the council and that it should be completed within a few days. Do the public know because it's this far? I call out that it's presented in a holistic bill, and we can talk about the whole wage, conjugal, not fragile, as it appears in these three cases. I'll have them take my review of this once and for all. I'm also going to talk about a little presentation about the city line. I had mentioned the propaganda that characterized the production of governments in Reykjavík during a presentation in this city line, perhaps working better hours later to review it. This is what a traffic Hjaltason in his article on the core, the headline of this article, says: One - sided propaganda in the transport structure of the capital area. We're talking about this and we've been doing it for the last few days. And what's happening? For the first time, the Internet and the media are full of people's articles and viewpoints from here on down the city line. I cannot help but rejoice, Mr. President, because of the scope of the project and the resources it is due to take. And perhaps even more will go into it. I'm also very surprised at the situation in which the Independence Party is in. I wondered because in this matter the views from the independents are actually three. First, by permission of the President, the morning newspaper concludes on the city line this morning. ▪ How sad it is when as many urgent transport projects as they are experienced worldwide, including the capital area, the council is now working to waste tens of billions, or even more of money, in a project that, at best, does no good but will likely slow down the area even more. The city's Independence Department, Eyþór Arnaldur, writes in the same paper today that he says about the city line, on permission of the president: The city of France is doubled its expenses to the city line. This is done without the funding of the contractors. Without a final investment plan. Without a schedule This is what the city's independent pedestrians say. Third, I was going to give a talk. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen of it on Thursday, where she actually says about the city line that it's an impregnable phenomenon, as it puts it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u144	Mr. President. I was on my last talk about the position of Reykjavíkurburg and the rural communities in the capital area, which are certainly not good, and that is also true of a trust fund. As a result of the viral epidemic, the crisis has become big on the government budget and is not at the end of it. That is why I find that at the same time the costly projects being made up of the city line are going to go up to a further hundred billion dollars. You just ask yourself, " Why was this project not blown off, Mr. President, in view of the economic situation, because of the epidemic of the virus, the status of the rural society, and the uncertainty ahead? ' I find it particularly strange that this agreement should be passed on within a few days, which includes this commitment to the funds as well as to our rural communities in view of all the uncertainty in the economy. I've been reviewing the resignations of Reykjavík, but Reykjavíkurburg came to the branch office for the financial support programs, there were three basic items that became legal. Reykjavíkurborg gave the commission, and there are a number of factors that appear there, many interesting things about the financial situation of the city of Reykjavík. It says, for example, by permission of the President: However, at the same time, the city's budget is expected to be negative to 2020 and 2020, as well as a very high budget of 2022 mouse/2024, or about 36.5 billion, all over the city's budget, or about 36.5 billion, combined in 2020 and 2021. So here's what we're saying, with President's permission: It is likely that most rural communities will be experiencing severe financial conditions this year and the following years, as the above analysis describes for the city of Reykjavík. In the Action pack 2 or the next actions pack, it is necessary to perform a financial analysis and to provide practical measures to ensure that they can carry out their legal tasks toward citizens and businesses. It is quite clear that Reykjavíkurburg, in its headline to the budgetary committee, indicates that she is not really able to carry out her legal duties toward the population and commercial life of the facility that has come up because of the viral epidemic. And once again, Mr President, you're going to ask, "Is this the same organization going to be up to tens of billions of dollars in the city line, on a project that people don't know how profitable it is, how many people come to use, etc.? There is a lot of uncertainty around it, since there is nothing to be done about the business or who should be the source of the business. Already Bus are fired with significant losses each year. Is there anything to suggest that the city line project will be better? There are so many uncertainty that it would have been perfectly normal in view of the economic situation to eliminate this project completely from the board, especially in the light of what has happened to our rural society and the state fund because of the virus epidemic. Away from the practical and all the uncertainty around it, the organizational issues, and all that, this is the point that you can point out. It's something that's not incorrigible to attack. It's just that it has to be said right now, Mr President. This is further stated in the report from Reykjavíkurburg to the Board of Treasures: ▪ The problem, however, is not merely a short - term financing problem; it is headed for a completely unsuspecting business for many years. This is a city fund. The same fund is then going to make significant expenses to the city line. I must say that I am not quite understanding this matter, especially the state funds position, the state of the city and the state of the rural society involved in it. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to find out more afterwards, and please have the president put me on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u145	President. I was beginning to review why a double or even a triple bus system in the Iceland capital area is lost, and I think it's safe to say it's safe to say, far beyond the cost plan, and will be not just twice or three times as expensive, but even far more expensive. And now we're up to business. But it is of great interest, to say, in this transport program, where enormously expensive projects at city level - similar projects have frequently exceeded the plans in other cities in Europe, even in South Africa, East Asia, the United States, and elsewhere - that, despite the fact that men are creating such an idea, an enormously expensive idea that will probably be far more expensive, they are only overlooked costs of economic costs. Why does the cost of operating double or the triple bus system become so much higher than we've seen so far? This system has been expensive, I don't think anyone doubts about it, and the state has had to come to it. That's because, as the bus system is organized today, the cars go a relatively long way from dots A to B and then overlaps. Some stations are special exchange stations, of course, known as Hlemm, Savile Square, the mall, and so forth, but it can be said to be developed in some ways like a subway system known to man from many foreign cities. Maintaining adequate travel has been very difficult, at least in some days of the day, and the system proved to be very expensive. What will happen now when the buses, these traditional buses, become just neighborhood cars, and the city line is added by long distances? Then each bus will be used only in a very limited area because the idea is that the neighborhood cars will gather people in their neighborhoods, give them the city line, the city line will move the passengers to the nearest location where the passenger even has to take another bus, another neighborhood car, to reach his destination. Then we'll have a number of buses circling a certain neighborhood. Would it be practical if it is not even possible to drive buses in a practical way in these major transport rivers between the most densely populated areas? As cars are being held throughout the capital area, chariots that are constantly traveling around the neighborhood with the expected few passengers will obviously be much more expensive than any bus we have now, and will take up people in places where passengers are most likely to arrive on the bus. Instead of this expensive system we now have, a system that has been difficult to keep out, we accept a much more expensive network of neighborhood cars, and then the city line is added to that expense. So only the side system will be much more expensive than the main system is now, and then the city line itself and the cost will be added to it on top. As I mentioned at the outset, such systems have proved to be very heavy in vats and animals, even in cities that are much more densely populated, much more than the national capital area in Iceland. So the government is now looking forward to the need for the future, along with the so - called rural society, running a bus system that is even more expensive than it is today, and a predatory city line system that no one seems to have an idea of what will cost business.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u146	A respectable president. I would like to give my speech to point to an opportunity that is open to all these city paraphernalias, i.e. That, to say, the transportation authorities, the Roadmaker, the Ministry, Reykjavíkurburg, the neighboring countryside, have made an attempt in the fall. We can do an experiment of that kind, an amazing opportunity in reality - it is not often possible to perform an experiment as accurately as we have a chance in these materials - i.e. shutting off traffic signals that will be shut down when the city line is started, she will be able to begin at some point. This means that we can see how this will be done by closing one lane in either direction, for example, on either side of the Southland road, closing one lane in each direction on all the other streets in which the plan is to flood traditional traffic, importing policy streets, one policy driving, where it is to be done, such as on the way down to the Melm area, closing all round around that area, and so along the streets. In all the terms used, it is assumed that there will be a larger total car tour. Despite the fact that the city's aim for the growing number of people using public transportation is as unlikely as it might be, the number of cars on the streets of Reykjavík, the capital city, is predicted to increase. So we have this amazing opportunity, we just say from mid - August, the third week of August, something like that, to close this lane and actually try what it's doing, make one lane in each direction where it's scheduled and out of the streets, and see what kind of cake everything goes into the capital area. The difference will be that if we drive this experiment through this fall this year, it will be especially interesting to see what the situation will be like when school begins on August/September, all the tracks of this madness will be realized, these goals will be carried out as they are available right now. What to do, to form on the Southland track where it is planned to reduce the area for public traffic by half, from two to each direction in each direction, will cause big clots. This will definitely push traffic out onto the Grand Way beyond what another would have been and nod of it. There we have the opportunity to see all the problems this future organization will bring over traffic in the capital area, but the difference will be that if we do this, we can take the cones away, the troubles away, and look for better solutions than there are recorded. I think it's the worst conclusion of all possible in this case if all of the projects intended for the so-called city line are going to be successful, they're going to get all 50 billion in investments, plus all the forwards that are likely to be, and we're stuck with a transport system where everything is going to be in cake in the capital area. You will miss the time, even the worst of times. We have the opportunity to make a realistic examination of this in the fall. I think it's worth the experiment that Reykjavíkurburg has thought of this, closing the autumn lane that will be closed up in the city line because it's expected that cars will continue to grow from what is now, despite the high success of the city line, it will be the case. It's an experiment and an opportunity we shouldn't pass, and I'm sure this will work as an alarm clock on all of us here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u147	V.E.G. President. I want to carry on as long as possible. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason was here talking about an experiment. I want to add to this experiment and mention again that I don't feel fully tired of attracting people to the bus. I've mentioned it here several times that you could make the instinct that in the morning the bus in downtown, as it's called, and the afternoon part would be free again on the way back. Thus, workers at the largest workplace down here in town, Hospital, take the bus, and see how it all hangs out. I've also mentioned that institutions, many of them, have left downtown or from downtown, U.S. National Security, et cetera. Well to mark, you can't still take a bus to a insurance agency, there's no bus that goes to that institution. We could just start by fixing it up. I'm here to discuss the transport contract. I just want to say, because I've lived abroad, like so many others here, that we know how neighborhood cars work. My experience with them is not bad, but I can mention that they far less drove around. It was mostly in times that even the older ones I warned about, and it wasn't necessarily that those who made use of neighborhood cars were going outside the neighborhood. I always feel like when a city line is introduced that it is the key that will connect the neighborhood. I don't know if it's fully researched, how it works, but as we know it's missing abroad, people have higher levels of service, so people can attend virtually any basic service they need in their own neighborhood. It doesn't have to be outside the neighborhood, there's the shoe and the merchant, and so on. When we discuss the transport contract, we also need to remember that this is the cost that will affect all the people of the country, and I think it's a little unfair to set it up that way. Now, I've been reviewing this conference arrangement from a transport minister and just reading it, you can see how many important projects are involved, especially on the roads, and everything we have to deal with, and especially how we want to set things straight. The first thing to do with the streets here in the capital area is to install a coordinated light control system, it should be first, and see how it will work. I am convinced that it will matter. I mentioned, for example. that when you're driving past the Harp, there are four if not five lights that have to go by in order to get only a few yards of roads. There's a race where people want to go as far as they can go. I think that might just be a good start. And in the end, I'd like to say that I don't feel at all that it's about to be put on Feldnland for this project. [[The president calls.]] I'd like a president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u148	V.E.G. President. This time I'd like to quote the State Department report on Dizziness. Actually, it's from 2015, but it's all for reading and I want to quote from the Board of Directors. It says, by permission of the president: By the construction of the Sunway, highways from the Qunos in the downtown city of Reykjavík will be up to Kjalarnes, considering that they are now traveling on Sea Way and Westland, less than three thousand miles [5,9 km]. Therefore, improved road transport between Reykjavík and Grafarvogs on the other hand and Reykjavík and Kjalarness will be expected to bring benefits to the capital population and to addition links to Western and Northern countries. Then the Sunway will cut down through Mosfellstown, reducing the demand for the current Western road from the southern corner of the South and the southern coasts of Kjalarnesi, north. These words are totally relevant today and have not been reduced, so I'm sure. On page 18. 37 in the same report, according to the President's permission: A survey of individual areas shows that the track has the greatest influence on the Grand Way, the West, and the Grafarvogur. Further, if traffic modelling results are further developed, the results suggest that the overall number of people in automobiles in the capital area declines by the development of the road, depending on the complete reach of the direction of road changes. This is not to say, however, since the road is most efficient, while the amount of time you spend in traffic accidents is likely to be affected. The model for the traffic: The model is quoted here in the models from the northern design - at a rate of 9 to 10% per year, with the arrival of the track, in the capital area all. This results in increased travel time security and better travel experience. Consider, though, that this refers to average travel time during the day. The time at rush hour speed to travel will likely reduce much more than 93/4 10%, the nature of the case. In spite of low traffic numbers on one side of the Sunway, the results of this report indicate that the waterway is self-satisfactory, and I think most agree. But this time, at the end of my talk, I would like to mention what I was discussing here today, the experiences of the recent discussion. I think it is even more clear now, when the day is now in the evening, that there is still another discussion in the community. Clearly, people notice that the work on the transportation contract in the urban area where the city line is inside is a very difficult child. Today's speakers have taken care of this and have reasoned with it, quoting reports, articles, and various concerns about the subject and the situation. Talks about the need for a much better review and including a better review of the case. Quoted that the state's set, as well as the city funds and other department funds, is difficult and has not improved in this Covid-fifier. It's amazing that this is going down, and I have to keep that final statement for this time, and I want to be put back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u149	Mr. President. In my final talk, I noted that the economic analysis of the so - called city line is in circulation. It's published in a BS report, the final test assignment for the University of Iceland economics. The author of this journal is Professor Ragnar Árnason, who is well - known. I believe there is a reason to discuss the essay and its contents because it touches this subject. We're talking about the largest transport project, as presented here, i.e. The so-called city line. The cost of this phenomenon, as it has been called, seems to differ, but at least has shown the figure 80 billion. The existing Parliamentary documents assume that there will be 50 billion people on the project. It is therefore only natural that the available analysis of the project should be considered, and particularly in a economic light. The essay is the national economic economy of a city line, where it is evaluated by the power of a so - called cost-and - benefit analysis that I only discussed and explained in my last talk. On the part of the authors, it is suggested to report that in recent years, well - known information has been a great discussion in this country about the problems of transportation in the capital area. It is stated by the author that many people are long tired of driving in the traffic pool and of the time that people have to spend driving at rush hour. The author suggests that for these reasons, the city line became one of the main election cases in the 2018 district elections. According to one author, there is a difference of opinion about this proposed transport system and that its efficiency is controversial. He says that while some feel that the city's approach to transportation is a solution, others feel that it is not enough to change the customs of the people who developed for a long time or for decades. One author suggests that with technological advances in the coming years, such as self - driving cars, there is a chance that much more efficient transport will be possible. So this new system, the city line, will soon be out of date. If you notice. According to one author, the ideas of a city line - I shoot in: so imperfect and imperfect that they are now, where there are really no two subjects on the subject in the same way - if only an updated version of the bus system already available here in the capital area. According to one author, questions can be placed on whether improved bus systems are a real solution to the future and end the discussion by saying, by permission of the president: ▪ Whatever the view of this new system, often reasoning on it seems to be based only on emotions rather than on facts regarding the practicality of applying it. This is an interesting comment in a BS report for economics, but most recently it is to say that the conclusion of the essay is that the implementation does not depend on national economic benefits. I have more to discuss, Madam President, and I ask to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u150	Madam President. In my last speech, I considered the payload, i.e. The administration of the government has ideas on the payment of three political fees. I had also considered that independence seems to have conflicting opinions on this matter, in the capital area. I can't help but say what I'm saying. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson, who says that independence is rooted in this matter. I was about to give a talk. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen at a council I have here. It was discussing this construction stop, which has been in the capital area, and it has been associated with a transport plan and an idea of a city line. I just have to say, Madam President, this is a speech I could have even kept myself out of this chair. With President's permission, that's what it says. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen it. Thursday: ▪ There is good reason to justify what has been stated in the previous talks by many members of the Parliament that here in Reykjavík the past decade has been a stop to action. This is because of the agreement that was made at the time not to provide any money to be made in Reykjavík but to give more money than had previously been made to public transport in an effort to increase their share in all roads within the capital area. This has led to dramatic consequences in Reykjavík. It is a furthest condition of transportation, a state of absolute permafrost. Then she hatches by saying that it is very important to take road action in Reykjavík. So a senator agrees that it is urgent to take action in the capital area, that was a construction stop. They experience the presence, the city, the neighboring communities, of some kind of military force. They are under siege and to get out of it, they must pay what I call a ransom. The ransom is a share in the city line, but most of the money to run to the city line comes from the public itself in the form of so - called speed fees, for it is the most significant item to come from reimburse those who travel through the streets of the capital and is also a substantial share expected from the state. This is surprisingly true of the case, Madam President, that the council and the government are jumping onto this chariot in spite of the word of the senators and officials and the public speakers in this city, independent people, on this matter. Independence is saying that this is completely unexplained. They speak of their lack of implementation plan and management plan, etc., exactly as we middle-class members have been pointing to, they agree with it. What kind of hostage have they been in if they are willing to submit this price? What kind of hostage have people been in here in the city? I'm just asking. At first, 50 million people are ready to dump in the city line. They have been experienced in a massive prison of total prison, under siege, and paid off by the city's ransom line. 50 billion, and I've heard figures of 70 and 80 billion, some of them already calculated. How expensive will this be? Hv. paritaprevir It's going well. Andersen said in his talk. Thursday, with President's permission: When it comes to Reykjavík, however, the so - called city line, which is an unexplored phenomenon, is expected in particular. I call for an independent government unit to come here and help clear this up for us and their comrades in the Independence Party, this completely unattracted phenomenon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u151	Madam President. I would like to continue with my final talk as I discussed the financial situation of Reykjavíkurburg and, in fact, the community also agreeing on the city line. Reykjavíkurburg came to a legal committee for financial contributions and expressed concern about the city's financial situation because of the epidemic of viral infection. I've only traced the city's resignation to the financier and I'm going to finish it where it says that it's going to be totally unsuspectable business for many years. By permission of the President: This insatisfaction cannot be solved by an increase in allowed taxation or services, or by massive cuts in the city's spendings, which, to the most extent, cover-of-the-arts and welfare services. Standard methods are not available. Then it cannot be solved by large loans, since income from business will not be available for years ahead of the payments. This is a review from Reykjavíkurburg to the budget board and they here say that they can't really live up to the pay on the basis of the situation. And then at the end it says: ▪ This is the main reason why the State gives direct unrepeatable support to the rural society, which makes sure that they can live up to their service to its inhabitants and homes and support their professional interests. In other words, Madam President Reykjavíkurborg is asking for financial support, unrefundable financial support, from the state of state for the virus epidemic. At the same time, this same city will pay tens of millions of dollars for city lines. I can't quite figure this out, Madam President. It is so out of the map to intend to go on this project and not even be able to live up to the loans and need special government support for the viral epidemic. The wise man, Madam President, sees that it is absolutely inconceivable to make this journey, this city line, as is the situation in the city's financial and financial resources as well. It is clear that there is a significant cut into the next budget and economic measures. This is 50 billion dollars in debt. To the next 15 years and at the same time, these members of the state are asking for financial support from the state because they don't have money from loans. You ask, " Are people completely realistic in this matter? ' I'm starting to think so. I don't understand why this case is not pushed out of the table yet, just because of the economic situation, the state of the rural society involved in the project, the State's Status. Everyone can see it's completely incorrigible. This is further reflected in a report from the city of Reykjavík that they sent a legal committee to review the financial situation and say, for example. that most rural communities need support from their rural financial resources in order to finance their legal responsibilities on a normal year - long trip and may even be unable to cope with their tasks. You're just shocked, Madam President, to plan on going on this road called a city line with all its costs and the uncertainty of the whole project, whether it's going to be used in a way necessary to make it appear. At any rate, the number of bus users is not successful. And what does it tell us that this new bus system called the city line will be more offensive? They're running blind to the ocean with it. Still, this enormous investment is required. Madam President. I see that my time is up, and I'm going to continue with this discussion on the financial status of Reykjavíkurburg and the members of the next talk. [[The president calls.]] Please, Madam President, put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u152	Madam President. I've only talked about the city line in recent talks. The reason why I considered it to be a relatively simple one was that we still hear all the strange statements from the government and other members of the mayor's section that have classes or representatives at the council on the discussion here. So I thought that it would be right to correct our major concerns. Now I'm going to discuss some of Reykjavík's neighbors. Although Reykjavíkurburg, or the mayor's greater part, has obviously been responsible for this whole project and in tying the state with this site, so to speak, several rural communities are involved. Many have wondered, " How do other rural communities react? ' If checked, there have been explanations, including interviews with some of those local rulers. No other conclusion can be drawn from their comments and their approach to this case but that they see the need and urgent improvement in transport practices in their rural communities no longer be waiting. So there is a great deal of effort to get started. As I've traced here before, there has been a construction stop in the capital area for a decade. It was sanctified by the government's decision to strengthen public transport during a ten - year test project and at the same time go to construction stop on other transport projects. Of course, eight inhabitants of these settlements agree that this is not practical and must be carried out on the delayed project. But why does the State take part in setting these rural communities against a wall by making the State's involvement in the city line some of the conditions for the long - term attack on the other projects that are largely funded by the state anyway? Why didn't the government just decide to get it over with and finish all the work that's been waiting for? Perhaps part of the explanation can be found in an agreement made between local members of the capital area in 1998, if I recall correctly. It is the exact same year that the organizational authority was moved to the countryside almost entirely. It was then a so-called regional structure of the capital area, and I have to admit, Mrs. President, that at the time, I considered it very reasonable that the rural areas in the capital area would agree on an organization for the capital area so that there could be a certain practicality in the prevention and other things the rural communities would need to cooperate on. However, on the day the agreement came on the part of the mayor of Reykjavík. He used a total organization in the capital area to enforce his will toward neighboring communities. This is clearly evident now, more than 20 years later. That's how the system works, Madam President. There's time for these things. 20 years later, it was shown that rural communities who should have already improved their transport activities by a long time ago have to agree to finance a city line to attack the projects that are truly needed. Of course, it's easier for these communities when they don't have to pay for the city line unless they're very small. It is still unsolved how it came to the government's decision to take the account simply, for the campaign of the United States. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Actually, I'm just coming into the discussion, Madam President, and therefore I'm asking to be put back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u153	Madam President. In this speech, I'm going to introduce a little bit of the most important projects in the anticipated future in the big capital area, which is Sunway. First, it is necessary to assign it only in historical context. It has been tragic to observe how those who have been directing organizational matters in the capital area for a long time have placed all the stones that have been found in the street of this project. I guess it was in 2006 that the road model felt that the project was somehow getting to a location where it could be started. Then, the city of Reykjavík was soon discovered, and that was where they arrived. magazines to start on the other side of the Kjalarnes'project, awaiting the mismanagement of the city's planning system in Reykjavík at that time. Sadly, however, we have made little progress so far, and we have seen it in the city of Reykjavík's decision to rule out the most practical route to which the road facing the so - called internal route is organized into a modern - day language structure known as Vogaville. The first assessment of the road was that the cost of the project was due to the decision that Reykjavík might have been near a further 10 billion dollars. As the years have passed, I feel that this number has dropped, much more likely since the decision was made in Reykjavík. The road industry wrote a letter to Reykjavíkurburg to provide the source of the road to demand additional expenses from the city of Vega. It has been claimed that the city of Reykjavík answered that letter and refused, but it has not yet been verified, either from Reykjavík or from the Vega type. But everything has been nonsense and has made it as difficult to own as possible. It is this section of Vogga, so called, and is now confined to the orbit of the Sunways of the Gufunesi, where new settlements are being built up and started at the so - called village farms as it is called, and it is planned to place a shelter in the Diving Way so that the projects of the Vega, at the time of its arrival, should be made available to make room for it as pleasant as it will be in recent times. In this context, it was not surprising, but it was always hoped that there would be a major incident when the demand for a comment on the Sunday and its organizational matters and the linking of the Sunway to the root system in the so - called transport contract of the capital area was made. As a result, the signing of the treaty, the declaration of the agreement, if I have understood it correctly, the representatives of Reykjavíkurburg fancied the fact that the Sunway would be so much as mentioned on a name in this agreement or in a declaration of will. There's always this fight going on. It is being accomplished as far as possible against the development of a Divide Course on Organization and Action. But it is our duty here at the General Assembly to ensure that this journey will be undertaken, that the project will be arranged, and carried out. It is not just a matter of security, resulting in the urgent evacuation of the city, but it will significantly improve traffic flow from all Western, northern, and, in fact, all the areas that come to the capital from the north and west. [[The president calls.]] It will also be very light traffic through Mosfellstown and will improve the flow and simplify by the yearfall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u154	Madam President. As pleasant as it is to see a president on the President's throne, it would have been very pleasant if she had participated in the discussion with us, since it is the chief expert on the Independence Party in public transport in the capital area. There's been a lot of talk about what a city line is. No one would agree, and the other day it was said that the city line was already blocked or put in red carpets so that supersized buses could pass through. I ran into an article by the Hilmar Þorbjörnsson architect I went over here yesterday, if I recall correctly. I'm only going to refresh it because one of the items I saw in the map of the first phase of the city that Reykjavíkurburg has published, and I trust that this is the right way, is the way of the Cape - probably down the Empire, then all the cars in the road - down the old Southside, down the Southland Way, down the Baldway, into the Lairway, and then on the Waffleway to the south over the estimated bridge of Fosg, which was once meant to be a wheel and a walk, about 60 years old street in Kópvogi, City, and Digtis Road. There are 13 miles, Madam President, and the vehicle, wherever it will be, should be stopped 25 times along the way. Now I understand that this project is designed to speed up the movement of people who want to make that journey their way. Now I haven't done a scientific experiment on how long you can drive from Cape this way, but you can't run over the Fos soar, but you can drive to it and then move on from the other side. By stopping 25 times on the way to five miles, it's my job to make it stop at a distance of 500. Now I understand that the city line is a super street car, probably twice as long as the people we're using today, because they've been dropped from the railroads, I think, for now. I still wonder, Madam President, first of all, how do you put a red carpet for a bus down Waffles? Should the second sidewalk be removed? And what are we going to do with all the people who've been investing in Höfsförf Street apartments, many of them babys, if these are supposed to be 50 tons and maybe 18 ms long, going through this street, if this is supposed to be so fast, why don't we say every ten minutes, something like that? I'd like to ask myself, " What will the Holocaust look like? ' It's already been built on both sides. There's gonna be a noise that goes between echo and echo. I wondered, " Have men really figured this out? ' Have people really figured out whether a bus of 18 feet long and 50 tons can usually take a corner off Hoffs Street and through a Savile road into a Scotland Road? Does the bridge stand the weight of the Tjorn? Or do you have to break the bridge and go to the Tjörn on both sides? These are questions that we may address when the local community is being discussed. [[The president calls.]] But I'm sorry that my time has been up, so I have to continue with what I was going to talk about in the next talk and ask the president to re-examine me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u155	A respectable president. I want to start in a place similar to what happened. paritaprevir In the years that followed, Bergþór Ólason concluded his discussion of the Sunway and the delays that have taken place on that project and the fact that more in Reykjavík, the last few years, has done what he can to put a stone in the street of the Sunway. The senator did well in planning and building in the Vogga region so called, and it was interesting to hear the senator review of the warning that the Road program had made on the project that Reykjavík might become a liability or that it would have to be paid the high amount of traffic due to this. Hv. A senator mentioned here that the cost has already become sensitive at least 10 billion people, if I just noticed, have a little notice. At the same time, it seems that this city as much as most of its share intends to take tens of millions of projects as they are facing that account from the government. I'm going to tell you, Madam President that there is no way the city will be demanded of that amount, or will be given due to its actions, if she has a permit unit or other financial expenses at the roadside, including this fine Sunway. The latest example as a dog. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's program was carried out by docking, or planned, at Gufunesi, where the site has been carefully organized to the other side or part of the site to the other side. It is therefore difficult to see why the government should continue in planning projects on the city line while the city of Reykjavík acts as it does or at least not until it has cleared up and all the permits and other necessary activities regarding the Dizziness Ways as well as the misunderstandings needed. It is considered only in the evidence and in a fine talk that has often been cited here recently, the talk of 1st. Smoke. s., Sigríður Á. Andersen, who went over the priorities of Reykjavík City to stop, in fact, not just Reykjavíkurburg, did more than the city's leading actor, of course. This construction stop has made it possible that the capital population, or the inhabitants of the capital area, will let me say, because transport improvements in the capital also benefit neighboring communities, have been made by transportation because of that decision. Billions have come into the bus business and have not returned much. I think it is very important that members of the Parliament stress this in the earlier contracts, in the payments that may be ahead of them on transport and related matters, that the city of Reykjavík does not escape its responsibilities, i.e. pay for another round. While small emphasis is now placed on the proposals of the greater part, it is still important to keep the city in its content. It is also very important that Reykjavíkurburg does not get away with unscathed continuing to squeeze to the airport. There is an agreement that the airport should be there for an indefinite time, really, and that it is important to be respected in all places. Reykjavík's newest training on organizational matters does not build faith in it. As a result, you are amazed that you do not put the city into more steel. Likely, this is because the government is composed of three categories in which one of the categories of great interest is being maintained in the urban affairs, which, of course, complicates the situation. Yet, this does not justify inactivity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u156	V.E.G. President. I've come to discuss the overall policy of public transportation, which came out last October and is one of the precipices of transport. It discusses that countries, rural areas, and private companies run public transport in Iceland in various ways and aims to arrive in the direct direction of the government, i.e. between bases. This is said because local public transportation is in their custody. This document aims to define the transport services that offer regular passenger transport on a certain route in advance of a published schedule of at least nine months per year and to make community importance for regions of the country, as public transport. Public transport is known to thrive best in large areas of densely populated. Iceland, on the other hand, is small, and we know that outside the capital area, it has the lowest possible place in Europe. This means that public transportation can be difficult to run, and therefore edification is an important reason why the State is involved in public transportation in the region. It can be said to be done to preserve the inhabited earth. When we discuss public transportation, as we have recently done, it is three transportation methods, transportation, flights, and public cars. Each trip, however, is of vital importance; yet, a measure of overall vision should be kept in mind. It is the road model that holds all these threads and is expected to be a key subject, as it is called here in this document, a link built together and an increase in access and equality to the population. So it is important that services become stronger, and passengers increase, and this transport and population development can become positive, i.e. do not draw more. There are key subjects to look up in the years ahead and I'm going to read them: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. A whole network of air, air, and uterus connect to each other, offering integrated routes between positions. 2. The availability of information on the routes between the destinations will be easy to obtain. 3. Make sure the travellers are competitive. 4. The safety of passengers traveling as well as at bus stations, airports, and ferry crews will be assured. 5. Everyone's access to the ministry, including disabled people and motorists, will be as best chosen. 6th Consecrate the transport process and the secure performance of the service. There is a purpose in this global policy that deals with the main purpose of improving access so that people can get to and from work or from school or go to a service. Public transport has a basic role in ensuring access and mobility. Bear in mind that this must be independent of financial matters. Strong public transportation connects people's positions and increases their availability of markets and services. The need to keep in mind is that the travel time of the longest living from the center of the capital administration sector is acceptable. [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the highest. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u157	V.E.G. President. I'd like to quote here in reviews of the Land Association of Horsemen. Well, the horse needs a ride. Though he can do much better than that, he has good anger. But here's what we're going to say, by permission of the President: ▪ The best men do not consider this category to be sufficient for construction and maintenance, which is the basis for horse and horse - related tourism in the country. In recent years, annual applications of the horse society have been made in the range of $2,250,330 [U.S.] per million [U.S.]. Both the new building and the maintenance of the older laps. By 2002 there were $39.9 million for the road plan, and in 2009 the cost was $70 million, which had been taken into account by the price of GDP. By 2010, cash is cut to $60 million, and it remains at the same rate until 2019 that it was raised to $75 million. The basis for structural science is changed in 2010 and is set to 100, at the 20208/2019 date, the basis for the index is 142.1. Thus, money should have been $ 107.6 million 2019 if it had been in line with the price of climate development. In fact, there have been no increases in this category since 2009. Rather, the contribution of the State is proportional. Horsemen call attention to the enormous sums of money that a horse - related operation is creating a yearly national structure, as shown by the following examples. In 2001, horsepower currency was applied for 7.5 billion [...] in the year 280 of yours in 2001. Foreign tourists home, estimated to have attended some 14% of their leisure activities in the Icelandic horse during summertime, and about 8% in winter [...] 2019 it is estimated that more than two million foreign tourists are visiting the country. As a result, this situation has become more stressful. ▪ It should be noted that a variety of activities other than horse rent and horse travel [may] be regarded as horse - related tourism. These include horse - related events. There are the highest national conventions of horses held every other year, with a number of people held at the number of 8◯10 thousand. About one third of the visitors are foreign visitors. A careful estimate is that the average consumption of guests per day at the 2016 Lands Convention was estimated to be 30,041 dollars outside. Visitors spent an average of $3,955 a day, while Iceland was $2,706. Careful estimates have thus been made that the economic impact of the 2016 national conventions was about $60 million without any secondary effects. [...] Strictities have gone on the other side and have to double the contribution to them at least from the present time. Horsemen challenge the General Assembly to make up and to make significant contributions and to make this possible for members of the European Commission and the European Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee. The Honorable President. The Icelandic horse was called the most useful slave for centuries. Today, he serves a new role as a tourist, an export of horses, and such. We need to make the Icelandic horse high. He has served us for centuries. In fact, the horse is the mark of the Middle Party, which has power and power. Thus, in the middle of the group, we are very much concerned that the horse is made high under the head, so riding is adjusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u158	Madam President. When decisions are made at national level, and, in fact, anywhere, it is important to lay the foundation of knowledge. We Middleclassmen and I have discussed some of the viewpoints of engineers who speak very strongly about the city line. I have an essay for a BS test at the University of Iceland economics, which is about the national economic benefits of a city line. A guide to this essay is Professor Ragnar Árnason. This essay is not good news for the Independence Party. The author's conclusion after a detailed analysis is the one on page 20. 51 i.e. that there is no economic advantage in working on a city line in the capital area. There is another way to meet the massive traffic congestion available to the capital area at rush hour. A reference to this essay is not an enemy of the Independence Party. He has been on his side for a long time, sitting with the Independence Party at the Federal Bank Board. Similarly, today's world is not good for those who take care of environmental issues and climate problems in particular. In an article by Jónas the son of Elíasson about the city line in the Morning newspaper today, the fuel that goes from city to city has been introduced. He says that the dams now take up to 20 tons a day for extra fuel expenditure, talking about the dams in the road. Up to 20 tons a day in extra fuel waste. He says it was about 10 tons a few years ago. Professor Jónas Elíasson, who for a long time was a professor of engineering at the University of Iceland, says that these are about 2% of the country's fuel expenditure. This extra waste of traffic is 2% of the country's fuel spending spending compared to the energy institution's fuel reservation. According to one author, correction of this is probably the most effective environmental action available to Iceland at this time. This is an assignment for those who want to take practical action instead of poise in climate. In any case, Mrs. President, it doesn't really matter where you look at the matter: In a practical way, the city line doesn't work. In a practical sense, it is a test for national benefits. The method responsible for these final tests is to compare the costs to the potential benefits calculated to the budget. His conclusion, after having made a thorough analysis of these materials, is that there is no economic advantage in working a city line. Of course, this may be a lot of thought because under his leadership, but he's handling the state's budget, it's scheduled to put 50 billion dollars of government money, public funds, to be carried out, and which is designed to form a test available for economics at the University of Iceland. I need to discuss this further, Madam President, and ask to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u159	Madam President. I started off in my first speech, but then I was talking about the articles and talks of the proselytists who have been saying that there seems to be no harmony at all in the camp of the independents in this matter, not at all. I had read a little from a talk. paritaprevir Sigríður on. Andersen and will continue. I had already quoted the morning newspaper, in the guidebook, where there are also questions about why this journey is being taken. I had also quoted the articles entitled Independence From Reykjavík, Eyþór Arnaldur. Hv. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isafassson mentioned these documents that I have printed here, a speech from which to speak. paritaprevir Sigrimurs Á. Andersen and articles in the morning paper by the Eyþór Arnalds and the guidehead of the newspaper, the Andersen Documents. It can be proved that they have a turning point in informing us about the position of the Independence Party, which seems to be crossed over. It would be nice to hear the explanation of those who have followed the government policy of setting up dozens of billions of lives. I'm just going to read out a contract on transportation in the capital area. This covenant is then in the fall and on page 20. 11 in the print says: How will the budget of the agreement be financed? The total budget of the agreement is 120 billion.◯ - That's everything, city lines and other projects. - The result in the contract period is 45 billion dollars, 15 billion dollars. The government is making threefold the amount of money the rurals contribute to all of these projects. According to one estimate, special funding is expected, which will be ensured by reviewing the pay of vehicles. Do we expect the overall cost of vehicles to be increased by the expense of this project, this pet project, this dream factory? It is referred to as traffic expenditures, which are the speed charges, related to energy exchange or by direct contributions to sales of state property. It refers to the country of Kölldna, where their companions have been put in this poker game. This will run at a rate of 60 billion. Part of this is supposed to slide into a city line. We have read here from countless documents, including the Andersen documents, how people feel about preparing this project. There's a difference of opinion about that. And the propaganda that has been fired, one - sided propaganda that has been fired. It is a clear article by Þórarinn Hjaltason, an engineer at the core of the propaganda that has been ousted, one - sided propaganda for this project. What are people heading for? Is it one of those webs of deception? A person should now consider matters only before he is given further attention on this journey. Of course, the middle class is completely against these ideas while they are not better equipped. I was going to give a little talk. paritaprevir It's Sigríður Á Andersen. She speaks of the need for mixed streets in Reykjavík and of implementing them, on a grand highway, on a highway, on a grand highway, and on a Great Way, and on the Way of Grensá, in which she feels the need to wind up. It says that there will no longer be a pleasure in not going to this level of violations of what is being committed in this city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u160	Madam President. I've been dealing with only the financial status of Reykjavík, and the fact that Reykjavíkurburg, like other rural groups, has become very badly affected by the viral epidemic. Reykjavíkurburg has been looking for an unrepeatable grant for financial hardship, but at the same time, the city of Reykjavík, the city of Reykjavík, is about to start building a city line for tens of billions, a project of some 200 billion. You say, "How can this be done? " How can a community that's so bad and that has become understandable because of the virus epidemic, be involved in such costly projects? In addition, there is a review that would be sent to the branch of the budget for a discussion of financial contributions. It describes it as a totally unsuspectable business for many years. They're talking about the financial status of Reykjavík. It says here, by permission of the President: This insatisfaction cannot be solved by an increase in allowed taxation or services, or by massive cuts in the city's spendings, which, to the most extent, cover-of-the-arts and welfare services. Standard methods are not available. Then it cannot be solved by large loans, since income from business will not be available for years ahead of the payments. The city of Reykjavík is stating that money from business will not remain for many years behind the cities. This is very disturbing news regarding the financial situation of the city of Reykjavík. And then the review says: ▪ This is the main reason why the State gives direct unrepeatable support to rural society, which ensures that they can live up to their service duties and homes. In other words, Reykjavíkurburg is asking for financial support at the same time as it is planned for a city line of up to tens of billions of dollars. I've traced this in my speech before, Madam President. I have to say, I'm kind of surprised that the city of Reykjavík is planning to do this, considering the financial situation in the city. As I told you earlier, the city will request financial support from the state fund for the virus epidemic. The same is true of neighboring communities who carry on this work with or plan to do it. All of them have suffered financial trauma as a result of the virus epidemic. It is a complete sense of responsibility, Madam President, then, to plan on implementing up to tens of billions of projects that may serve 4% to 5% of the city's population, bus trips. You do not understand who are already in the financial, financial, expenses, the city of Reykjavík, and the local community. When there is not even a legal assignment, some of the mayor's pet projects, including the Continental and the mayor, are to direct the transport process, in order to force the city to travel by bus. The procedure will help to reduce transport activities that are already there and those who drive cars and the family car; this will reduce the amount of traffic that is part of the family car to set up this city line. All of this is done under the signal that this is necessary to improve traffic flow and solve the resulting traffic knots. Why have they formed, Madam President? It's simple. Reykjavíkurburg has not been on any project to facilitate current traffic in terms of stockways, building of misdirected corners, etc. It's all about a city line that this city can't afford to build.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u161	Madam President. I had started talking about the unfortunate situation in the capital area, other than Reykjavík, i.e. The neighboring companies of Reykjavík have been placed in transport and planning, and of course this is closely linked, transport and planning. Except, at this point, the ransom is due to be paid for a long time of action, so on. Maybe one large act for every other community. As a result, they accept the city line, for the government is offering to finance most of it. But what projects are under there, and how quickly is this being accomplished? Let's start with the second. It has been claimed that with the transport contract referred to in a transport program, it will take only 15 years to complete a project that would otherwise have taken 50 years. And what are men talking about when they say it took 50 years to finish it? Yes, they're aiming at the construction stop during the ten years when nothing was going on. In effect, we are going to do in 15 years what would have taken 50 years to do if we had maintained a construction stop. It's just advertising. But the idea that dust can be thrown into the eyes of people in this way is very strange. What are these assignments? It is traffic control, and the light system is referred to there. I've discussed this before, Madam President, so I'm not going to go further into it for a while. But here, it runs at a different angle because at the same time, with the induction of city lines, it's just a meaningless talk about traffic control if you're going to go to the city line together. Seatrack, Smokeynes Way, Sea Road, Holta Road, stylist Tray. What's next about this? Connecting to the first stage of the city's line over Ellisavog. Figures. This is a series of monuments that should be linked to a city line and whether to sort the cost at the city line or to count it by other projects. Grand Way, Snorra Way, aid in linking Land Hospital to the city line In fact, the other projects to follow the city line relate to all more and less city lines. Eaglenes Road, Rachna Road, and Breinholt Road, this is a long time period of action that should have been in total regardless of city line. So city line: Hamraburg, Lindir, the stage, the roadside road to Bhubby Road. This is a project that not long ago drew attention. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason asked even No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A secretary of transportation to this point, but it has arrived during the day at Reykjavíkurburg or more of the area where there have all other ideas about them than the state and to form the highest. Secretary of finance. So even on the main project in Reykjavík, in addition to the city line, the city, apparently, does not intend to take the most practical course. There are a few more tasks to be listed, I will, Madam President, when there is time. I just wanted to point out how preposterous it is that at the same time as you're getting into all of this, there's no plan for the city line. What business managers would think of engaging in tens of millions of projects or even hundreds of billions of projects without promoting or implementing such a strategy? I think we have to go look for this strategy. It must exist somewhere, Madam President, even though men are trying to hide it. In the discussion of the third energy package, we searched hard for warnings, and an experienced detective, a policeman, a businessman, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, a member of the Central Party, was assigned to direct the search for warnings. Now I'm surprised. A senator to initiate the search for the management plan, for it cannot be hidden from hundreds of billions of projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u162	Madam President. I've been thinking for a while that the government is willing to give 50 billion of its resources to the so - called city line, although it's unclear what it means to do that. When you think about this matter a little deeper, it's really a government fund with this, taking on the role of a hedge fund, by participating in a venture capital investment of this size. As we have seen in the case of other Middle Class, there is no plan. There doesn't seem to be any daisies. It is said that the objective is that as well as so much of the local population will benefit from this service. I described that service earlier, i.e. in the first edition, from Cape and South of Kopavog, 13 miles will be stopped in 26 places. There is no quick check. I remember that when I was a young boy walking here in Reykjavík, there was one bus route faster than anyone else, that was no. 13 Kleenex hurry. I didn't stop much, but I went very fast. Today, Reykjavíkurburg is trying to create the 2020 model of the Klepp method, which is to be stopped in 26 locations in a 13 km chapter. I say again, Madam President, this is not a hurry, but for this and continued adventure, the state would like to give up some 50 billion that were financed by selling the best property in the capital area today, after the ten-month financial minister of the reverend sold the Vifilsland and the Weather Room. One of the greatest ills ever done, I think that no man has done as much trouble in this regard in as short time as this noble gentleman. At this point, further improvements are to be made by having the Netherlands also fully, with planning and everything. And not only that, there comes the red carpet as the dog. paritaprevir The other day, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, seated president. You see, one red carpet is to be plowed down into the middle of the Köldnaland for a city line. It's not being used or knitting with the existing edifices, no, it's supposed to be plowed down into my country. Then they go on and go into the midst of the Bolkastain, a prime construction land. But it's not going to be added on the western road or anything like that, not at all. It's all grown to such an extent that you would have thought that the State would be more demanding when they give money at this magnitude. May I remind you that this is probably over half of the original plan for the construction of a new hospital. But they are willing to give it up to increase the number of people assigned to use public transportation. This amount could run the Kingdom News for eight to nine years, probably, but they're still doing it and putting it into a hedge fund. I am completely hiding how to defend it, considering that there is no more information than there really is. I was going to cover only the available city line number one, but unfortunately, I haven't had time to do it, so I have to ask a president to register me again on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u163	V.E.G. President. I'm still on the move, a transport plan, which deals with public transportation and has come to the future view that Iceland will be on the front row of solid infrastructure, powerful rural communities, valuables, and progressive services. The transport programme offers a vision of the future and two main objectives that have been set over all of the transport and rural administration classes and are part of integrating them. With a vision of public transportation, a comprehensive view of how the public transportation system can serve and connect with, short at work and school, facilitates access to public services in close environments as well as to central services in the capital area. Here, it is nailed to the fact that a central service is one of the most in the capital area, and I realize that it may take a considerable time to turn this ship around, so we leave it between parts. It is clear that transport has a major impact on the development and development of sectoral affairs in the country, and research has shown this to be the case, i.e. Achieving the development and development of transport systems. Of course, all of this affects one another. In this context, I would like to review the criticism of the Scottish route that by subsiding flights so that people may be attending services to the capital, they may be affecting the development of infrastructure and basic services. There is not as much incentive to maintain basic services in your home country. It is important to view all the transportation system as one unit, which, of course, is the road system, ports, and airports, so all of this must be watched. I mentioned earlier that it is not only a matter of looking at more portals in the country, but it must also be thought that it is practical to watch the portals from the country. It must matter, too. We don't want to have just one portal into the country or out of the country. That is why the decisions of the government are very important to us every day. The crowning virus has taught us many things. We had a meeting through telecommunications equipment and a job was done in telecommunications. It tells us that it is possible to spit on a little about a job without a location, and it would have made you want to see a statement here, but I'm just beginning with this piece of paper so that perhaps it will come. First of all, the services of transport and communication systems meet the needs of society. It is suggested that transport and communication systems should form an integrated whole, which, of course, is for the benefit of both individuals and occupational life, and that the network of transport and communications on land, air and seawater is defined and built up. of safety, work parishes, national and Iceland's link to the big world. I'll do this and ask the president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u164	V.E.G. President. I'm going to quote the comments of the Northland Public Laboratory on the plans for Iceland's flight policy, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ The National Market Office (MN) sent in detailed comments to the green book on flight policy published by the conference at the end of July. Apparently, they were not taken to the point of comment, and the main message of the flight policy is that nothing should be built on the Akureyri Airport. MN comments to the green book can be found in an attachment to this review. It is said at the airport to promote regular international flights through more international airports than the Cheflavor airport, but in the near future, infrastructure is to be based on a subengineering role rather than a passenger service and the emphasis is placed on the Eglial Airport. Regular international flights require passenger services and e.g. At Akureyri Airport, there is an urgent need to expand the base. The main observations in Iceland's flight policy are as follows: The National Marketing Authorisation Agency requires continued development at Akureyri Airport as a global airport and will be organized into a complete structure to meet the needs of an international airport and it is possible to build up an international airport. The competitiveness of the Akureyri Airport should be ensured, including with the equation of transport costs of aircraft fuel, structure of air stations, and airport loads. A powerful international airport has a positive influence on employment and society and supports positive development in the area. Therefore, more should be done to build a full - time international airport than just a spare airport. Other comments on aviation teams: Key subject. 6th An integrated and single - handed system of international airports Briefly with the possibility of more sides inside the country to increase the number of areas that can benefit from tourism. This has been discussed many times, but a little moaning. Most of the airports are well equipped to take on more international traffic, to launch the airport for international flight, and there have been effective results. What is missing at the Akureyri Airport is a larger air station so that passengers who arrive with dignity can be served and then build on the results they have obtained. During the next few years, there is all the basis for large increases in international traffic over the airport, but this will not happen unless they are built up and a larger terminal is the most important project. So money must be placed on that project right next year. This also requires an expansion of the airport so that the airport can improve its role as a reserve airport for the Keflavour Airport. [...] In the North, we have a missing infrastructure destination in order to take advantage of the opportunities that are present in increasing numbers of tourists directly into the area. In 2018 traffic increased by about 80% of the previous year's Akureyri airport. The insides of airports must be so that they can accept the traffic they intend to enter the area and serve a passenger, e.g. About rental cars, buses, etc. Direct revenues of Super Break flights to Akureyri from Britain last two winter are estimated at about $75 million, but in addition to another consumption of some 450 million. In total, Super Break's activities have increased the well - known tourism industry in northern Europe by 1.2 billion.• V.E.G. President. I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u165	Madam President. I'm going to deal with the economic analysis of the city line. As I traced the last talk, this is a BS report for economics at the University of Iceland, promised to be a national interest in a city line. Cost and benefit analysis. It is hardly surprising to say that by permission of the president, the results of this essay are not economically acceptable to operate a city line in the capital area. This is a conclusion to economic analysis and this is a project carried out by the government, where the Independence Party is going to stake into 50 billion. Like what? paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson previously owned Reykjavíkurburg and other rural areas, someone, at least, hardly for legal expenses, and it is as if anyone else would agree that this project will be undertaken in this setting. Farmers have no authority to do so, and government funds have reached an entirely new and worse situation after coping with the consequences of the unreachable fluency. When for that reason, Madam President, it is natural that there is nothing more to be done than to abandon these plans. They're completely unrealistic. First, the economic situation does not allow this, and second, the financial standing of the state funds or rural society does not allow it. Third, tests, whether engineering or economics. This does not measure up as economic practical action. With members of the Central Party, we have discussed the subject of engineers. We have referred to a statement in an article in the reactor following a traffic engineer named Þórarinn Hjaltason, who argues that the target for improving public transportation can be met by spending several billion for the project as the cost strategy was last noted is up to 80 billion. Of these, the wealth of the state is to place 50 billion and the value of the traditional land. It's a project that doesn't hold any opinions, Madam President, and it would be pleased to disappear from that. There is not even a definition of any agreement among the members of the programme, to be best handled, on what city line it is. It's, for example. One chapter in this BS essay called What's the City Line? This is chapter 2.2 on page 19. 12th It says that the city line is intended to become a high - quality public transport system, and such systems are built in their simplest form, as it is said, on three factors; that it is adrift on specials, a back - up, and high - speed travel rate. These special lanes are natural only to be removed from public traffic. It is clear, then, that the city line is designed to squeeze into the preconceived traffic system, such as traffic jams in which people spend a long time in their cars. This damages the quality of life and damages security. Of course, there's more to this, Madam President, and that's why I'm asking to be put a second time on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u166	Madam President. I was just reading from a talk. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen in my final talk, did not have what I thought was the most important thing in my speech. I'll be right back where I left off, but before I start, I'd like to mention that earlier I got back. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson found a challenge or a request to study and to start a search for a city's master plan. A senator is amazed to have tens of them if not a hundred billion unless there were no management plans. He felt that this scheme must be found somewhere in drawers or documents, and I gladly accept the assignment to start searching for it. It'll be interesting if you find anything. As the investigation unfolds, I will tell you what I will be familiar with, Madam President, and will begin my work immediately. I had come to talk about it. paritaprevir Sigrimurs On. Andersen, speaking of the absence of pleasure at the construction station in Reykjavík, mentioned two corners of the Great Way, on the other hand, on the highway or on the other side of the Grens River. Then she says about public transportation, by permission of the president: To double the share of public transport from 4% to 8% is planned in this covenant. It is quoting from the 2011 treaty, which was the role of public transport in transport 4%. That's what it says. Senator: But it is still today 4% [...] There is hope that it will be up to 8%. And although we get public transportation up to 8%, it is unlikely that 50 billion public transportation will be distributed to the lowest amount that has been mentioned recently in the urban line - ⇩ when people share in that transport will be no more than this. You're absolutely right. A senator, it is not more than 4%, and even if it reaches about half, it is the next small participation and far from being able to carry out the current project, far from it. A common component of public transportation is perhaps 40% to carry out a costly network of wagons. Like what? A senator says, with the permission of a president: ▪ I'm sure that a few years ago when city officials were studying these matters, during the days of these ideas, they went to experts in Germany, I think in Freiburg, where a famous city line is, where men introduced these ideas and were looking for advice, they were asked: How many people are using public transportation? That was 2%1/23% at the time. The message to the Icelanders grew, and they were trying not to reflect on such things as the city line, no matter how it was implemented, do not try to reflect on such a phenomenon until public transportation has been reached in general into 40%,156. There's the sky and sea apart, but there's still a lot of people going into it. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Shortly ago, Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, who is on the budget board at the same time because of the Covid pandemic, would have applied for unrequited financial support from the government. While the city is in such a poor financial state, such a project is to be carried out. paritaprevir The victory plan of Andersen calls in his speech a κoutated phenomenon. [[The president calls.]] Still, it's time to go, even if you don't have any money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u167	Mr. President. I've been dealing with only the financial status of Reykjavík and the local communities involved in this so-called urban work, as well. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason correctly mentioned. I am in the second section of that discussion, and perhaps I can finish it in the words that Reykjavíkurburg owes $11 billion. The whole estate owes $340 billion. Then there are the debts of village, and they are still added. Then Reykjavíkurburg has to deal with financial problems because of the virus epidemic and is not provided to the end. Economic support will increase substantially during the next year due to high unemployment rates, etc. It's perfectly clear, Mr. President, there's only one thing about the city line project. They're pushing it off the table. Economically, it is inconceivable to engage in these expensive projects, up to a hundred billion dollars, in terms of the economic situation, the state of the State Fund, the position of the local community in the capital area, and the position of Reykjavík in particular. It also contains laws for the inhabitants in the form of roads. It is unclear how to finance approximately 60 billion of this section, it should be in the form of capital cities, capital taxation, on top of everything else we've had to deal with because of the virus epidemic, lack of mass work, and less income in both companies and individuals. I think it only takes a relatively simple view of this assignment to see that it is unwise, especially financially, to intend to do so on this year's journey and to make a commitment to state funds and payments until 15 years of age. We've got new platoon agents coming in. There will be elections, new mayors and new governments. This is a commitment to the city fund of years into the past, and especially the government funds we discuss here, with no understanding of what the future holds, in the confusion we have faced. And do not forget that we need to make sure that our welfare system has the money they need. Hence, the State Fund cannot be committed to the future without knowing what is involved in this work. There's so much uncertainty about the project. There have been many reports that it is very uncertain how successful it is to get people to use the workers if and when they rise. Already it has been very difficult to get people in the capital area to make significant use of public transportation. The number of people who use the bus system of Reykjavík and the capital area and who are walking in it is already worth a fortune. In turn, to expect this project and this system to become something different from a bus system when it comes to using it, I think it's very high. That's why I say, Mr. President, it's the easiest thing to push this case down. For example, out of the table with the matter, there are many other projects that need to be handled, and simple efforts are made to facilitate thepurities that are now in the capital area, such as. Only through misdirected trajectories that would significantly increase the traffic flow on a major highway and a shopping track. I think that it has been calculated that there would be an enormous problem that would result in the misdirection of these paths. So let us take these measures rather than go to something of great uncertainty and cost much more. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Please put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u168	Mr. President. I've been meditating on something like the senator who spoke before me, and I've been thinking for a while about it. It seems that the 50 billion that the state fund is meant to carry on this project has sailed through a lot of institutions, people, without anyone raising a flag and saying, "Well, that's a lot of money. As I told you earlier, this amount is about 60% of the construction cost of a Land hospital, as it was scheduled one and a half years ago. Even if there's a lower proportion, it's still a lot of money. This is to be put down without being sure of what it's going to be like. I have here in front of me, Mr. President, two drawings of the first two stages of the city line. I was saying earlier, because it's supposed to be a hurry then it's very strange that it's at least 13 miles [12 km]. 20 Stations in Line No. 1 which will then reach up to two more stations and end up in Lindam, while the starting point on the other side is the Cape. This rounds the city, so the person traveling from Linda, Cape, will probably count for an hour to leave. As we've been discussing here before, this device is supposed to be time-sparing, but it can't be seen at first sight that it will. In fact, it's kind of out of the question that it doesn't seem, at least not in the data I've seen here in the house, following this plan no premise. People say, "We're gonna get a lot of people who use public transportation from 4% of the population to 12%, if I remember correctly." But there is no such thing as the way people are going to do it. Yes, they're going to say that people can leave Cape Hall in Hamraborg about 20 miles [13 km] and stop 20 times on the way. As a passenger, I wouldn't necessarily like to pay a lot of money for it because I don't see in my hand how it's supposed to be quick. Besides that, this so - called red table or red carpet is supposed to follow the procedure almost impossible on all of this, except perhaps on the top of the way, because after you arrive in the Rock, the old Southland highway and then the Bolfjörn. Mr. President. You can't create an extra branch in a demented place. That's not possible. Then I say, Wait, how will they speed up the goings of these chariots? I've told you before, two attempts have been made to stop the traffic off a bus in Reykjavík in recent years, i.e. In the city scene and the latest, the station is in the center of Hague Square, as I said before, not ringorg, but a round drive according to the city authorities say. Mr. President. You see, it's very serious. It's a smile, but it's a big deal if you've become so disoriented that you look for new phrases to fix what everyone sees is impossible. So it needs- and I have to get it to the next talk because I see that my time is really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, I have to ask the highest. President to put me back on the rosary so I can continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u169	Mr. President. I had begun to review earlier how even the projects of the transport covenant that are not exactly marked by the city line are all about it, for it all relates in one way or another. I'm going to go over these projects better, and I'm only halfway through the list, but I decided to pause that passage and cover a piece of paper from the Board of Directors that we're going to have, so you're going to use the press, and I'm going to explain fine or substantiate so much that we've been pointing out. This is a letter from the office of the attorney of the city dated November 12, 2018, and bearing the heading "Advelopment Permissions for the building of public transport. " It says, in the beginning, by permission of the president: There is a policy declaration by the secretary of transportation and rural administration, f.h. The United States and the SSH-SSH-Circultation Group - these are rural organizations in the capital area - a transport issue in the capital area dated September 21, 2018, which was combined with the treatment of the Parliamental transport program. When they were working on a transport program at the time, you found the city's representatives, or the local community in the capital area, and the secretary of transportation, once and again, an evil healing. I think some have forgotten that the agreement referred to in the transport program today, this covenant that you are supposed to call, had a predecessor referred to here. So says the letter's text: In accordance with the Declaration of Will, the parties are expected to work on the separation, implementation and agreement on the funding of public transport and the high quality services of public transport as well as in this case, I have to shoot into, Mr. President, the high quality system of public transport is a term used for the city line before being supported by a statue name - ◯ in the capital area. Among the people who agreed to be considered, it is a matter of passing legal releases to share a rural partner in the planned transport investments. In order to enable rural communities to engage in the building of public transport, the city of Reykjavík suggests that either of the following proposals for a law-change will be made to ensure payment rights for rural society in order to finance them on planned projects. Here is Reykjavíkurburg, telling the State how to change the law to enable societies to reimburse the public, in rural areas here in the capital area, to survive the city line or the high - quality system of public transport as it was called. And before I go to any of these proposals, or almost a recommendation, the city to the state, I made it clear that we had discussed a considerable deal with Reykjavíkurburg and the members expect the state to pay most of it from the city line, which is a project that is in the hands of the local community, we want to attack it, and we want the state to reimburse the public and sell the Netherlands and even the Bank of Iceland. However, we see here that the rural communities, which cannot all afford to contribute even if they are relatively small compared to the State, want to finance their share with a new currency, saying that the State will reimburse and the rural communities will reimburse it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Now I have to go back to the rosary so I can review the suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u170	V.E.G. President. I'll continue with the straggler that deals with the overall policy of public transportation between settlements. I had come to the primary goal of 1 dealing with transport and communications services, meeting the needs of society. It says here that there will be regular improvements in transport and telecommunications and that their effectiveness will be measured, this is the way it is in the rest of this section. Target 2 discusses sustainable settlements and rural communities all over Iceland and I'm going to read it, with President permission: The target includes: Prioritive measures will be taken into account the wishes of rural management and national parishions. The design and priorities of national transportation and communication take into account environmental quality and public health. The building of a total public transport system around the country. Self - control and the responsibility of a rural partner will be recognized and guaranteed as equal to the right and access of the population in service. The building of a global public transport system is thus part of the main objective of sustainable land development as it contributes to the progress of most of the other targets. All of this hangs together and will be seen as one unit. The chapter on goals further says that transport is facilitated, economic, safe, and environmentally sustainable, as well as contributing to positive development. It only discusses that there are priorities linked to the legal policy of transport, i.e. easy transport, as I mentioned earlier, as well as safe, efficient, efficient transport, environmentally sustainable transport and positive development of rural development. These are the five main supplies. If you go to the right transport section, public transportation is obviously an important factor in promoting transportation. An integrated three-way travel policy is spoken of and sets up a small tablet that covers a number of flights within the country in plan and rent flights, and a footnote defines what flight movement is. According to this report, an international flight of about two times that of international flights, reported to be takeoff and landing. The score of 2018 was 31,852 motions, takeoff, and landing. It is desirable that 2024 will reach 37,500, a significant increase. There are also a number of travel trips. They were 5,000 in 2018, and 2024 is spoken of as 5,100. Then there is a number of travel by public car. The number was 79,000 in the spring of 2018 and is intended to be 84,000 in 2024. It is a question of what is counted in this, whether it is an indentation each time, or if you are going to take your land waste to the capital and continue with the urban waste, whether it is one input, or whether it is a two-way. There's a lot of opinions. [[The president calls.]] I'd like the president to put me back on the rosary, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u171	A respectable president. In this talk, I would like to review Section 2 of the Committee on Environment and Transport. I took this chapter in earlier talks only, but I would like to be more aware of what 2 smaller things say about the transportation contract and the city line. I'm going to read the chapter, with the permission of a president: ▪ Other smaller items make serious comments to plan the transport arrangements that turn to the city line. Despite the desire to pay for a wide range of means of transportation, including public transportation, 2 smaller things do not seem to be a defence to plan a city line so important that state and rural society will defend less than 50 billion dollars. Until the year 2033 to the city line. It has not been demonstrated that the more efficient targets for cities cannot be met than to spend 50 billion dollars. During the specified period. There is no fixed cost plan for urban development as well as financial and management programmes, and unclear who will carry the cost of their operating at the end of the procedure. It is expected that contributions, both state and rural, will be much higher than expected, with the number of uncertainty factors involved in the whole project. For example, it is unclear who will own or after a few cases earns money from the type of space produced by some of the Grand Prixs. No one knows if it will be the city of Reykjavík, or part of the community, if it will be established, which is intended to keep investments and policy affairs linked to the transport contract. Then there will be the complete uncertainty about the stately premiums of the city after it is realized and will cease to be part of the community for a long time. It is extremely important to keep this chapter in mind, Mr. President, and what it says there. There are some of the many uncertainty factors involved in this project. It is clear that many of the questions that have been asked have not yet been asked. The speculations and questions that we have raised, and in fact, submit to them. that the 2nd - smaller items of their committee party have not been answered. It must be natural to discuss whether it is the partner or the city of Reykjavík that receives the benefits that may result from this project, e.g. of sales or rented income, and so on, if the Grand Canyon is placed in the stocks as mentioned here. There are these things that must be explained, Mr. President, and really impossible to have it incomplete before we proceed with the matter. Yet, there are much larger factors that matter even more than just that. It is the uncertainty of who is going to carry the final cost of payment. How should it be divided? How to proceed with the whole project, etc.? I also draw attention to this, Mr. President, that according to protocols, within thirteen years, 50 billion will run. on this project. It's a lot of money, and if we look at the money the state has to play for transportation and transportation, it's an enormous figure to which it is supposed to go. Even if it is financed by property and property sales, it must also be kept in mind that it does not have to be used both to cover the share of the State on this project and other projects, e.g. in the capital area or in the region. No matter where they come from, the funds being assigned will be used elsewhere. So there must be a limitation, if not simply a direct reduction, on funds for road work at the end of the day. Then there would need to be discussed whether some of the extra expenses could be financed by some kind of user charge. But that's just another conversation. There is a discussion that we need to take later, since, of course, Mr. President, as noted in Committee 2 reduces the environmental and transport resources that may be collected from users of the roads in the capital area or elsewhere, will be an additional clean addition to the other costs the car owners have to pay each year. That can't be a clean addition.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u172	V.E.G. President. I did not have time for the last talk to finish a reading from the Northern Marketing Office comment on a transport program that is now being discussed. I'd like to continue with that, with permission of the highest. President: If a policy of flying is set out to decide that no more international airports will be built, then the decision to make is a negative impact on the economy of the country because of lost instruments. Is that a decision that has been fully calculated, i.e. What will be the economic impact for all the land and for certain areas? This conclusion seems to be out of harmony with government policies on urban development. During the summer of 2015, a team of international Prime Ministers assigned to provide increased opportunities for international travel and for reporting on regional and national benefits from direct international flights to Akureyri or Elisium. The task force built its suggestions on this report, showing a clear national benefit from the increase in international flight through this airport. At the same time, it was found that the government's investment in increased international flights in Akureyri or the Egls with an impulse system through the Favour Development Fund would be returned twice as far as a government fund through an increase in tax returns. It is worth noting that I remember this discussion and this plan in 2015. Sadly, this did not result from various factors. It's pretty sad that this experiment didn't come true. If the tourism services return to what they may do and increase, it is very important that we be able to offer more variety to tourists by opening more portals into the country. But so I'll just keep going: ▪ There is much to recommend an Akureyri airport as the first option after the Cheflavour Airport. We have all infrastructures to receive people, both accommodations, shelters, passengers, and so forth, but also a very well - equipped hospital. At Akureyri Airport is the centre of a medical flight in Iceland and the U.S. Army selects the Akureyri Airport as its first reserve airport... It's where natural locals talk about their airports, but also, the Egls base airport has been inside the picture. I just read: ▪ The Northland market has a complete mind that the link between international flight and international flight is important and is actually very important for the future opportunities for international tourism. However, policy cannot be determined how to improve these connections. The National Marketing Office stresses the need to improve the situation at Keflavour Airport for such connections to be possible and effective. [...] Main objective: Direct international flights through the Akureyri Airport have been defined for many years as the largest interest issues in the Norwegians in the Arctic strategy and have been supported by the Air 66N in the application program more than once because of the importance of the project. It is also an unambiguous wish for rural governments in the northern part of the world that construction of the Akureyri Airport will be accelerated so that international flights can be built up in the future. Since 2011, 12 rural areas in the North and West have supported and financed the Air 66N project, which is involved in promoting international flights through Akureyri Airport. Purpose: The National Marketing Office agrees with this, and it has shown how important flight development funds have been to achieve an increase in international flights. [[The president calls.]] He will continue to be the key component [...] V.E.G. President. I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u173	A respectable president. We're talking about a transport plan, the biggest project and the most financing. There are plans for a so - called city line that is expected to reach 50 billion. It is as if nothing has happened, Mr. President, even though a pandemic has been hit here, although economic developments have been very much worse with a grossly predictable decrease in production, as predicted by major organisations, as well as a massive recession in currency income because tourism is dealing with the conditions known and the consequences of this virus. Unemployment is more than we know in general. The state funds status has turned completely around. She was relatively strong, but she has grown ill for reasons we know. Still, it's as if nothing happened. This is a table of members of Parliamentary Congress where the ideas of the sort I described are to attack this so - called city line, which no one seems to know exactly what is involved. There is no apparent cost plan. It is not a business analysis, it has been mentioned only by members of the Central Party. There is no analysis of the factors that could lead to a cost cut-off. Of course, we are not particularly comfortable getting used to those things, such as those that are known to us, especially those in Reykjavík. This majority managed to destroy half a billion people in rebuilding a flag south of Nautilus and, of course, for a long time, will be remembered. Yet, these ideas are presented as a source of stress. Then, as it is noted, scholars have strong criticism about the city line, including the city line. on engineering grounds, economic grounds, it's as if those tips were of no importance. They're highly respected onettergis. No one sees reason to take the answer to a traffic engineer's tip in the nuclear field that public transport goals can be achieved by spending at least a few billion instead of them. 80 billion who would naturally end up with a much higher number at the end of the day. It's a little strange going through this conversation. It is somehow as if those who are related to the matter did not rely on discussing the cost or the risk of variation, profit benefit, or any of the essential factors involved in making decisions about such large and important tasks. But because it's that night, Mr. President, I hope I'm sorry if I mention that in those words, it's like 50 years since his youth in Reykjavík was inside Saturday to listen to the band Led Zeppelin. It is unforgettable for all who were there. I'm asking to be put on the rosary one more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u174	Mr. President. I was in my last talk to discuss the obvious position of the independents that it seems that the Independence Party is badly split in its position toward the city line. Some point out that it is completely unexplored, as is its case. It reminds me of the assignment I was given earlier, Mr. President, to look for the programmes that must be found. I haven't made it any further, Mr. President, but to make a directory around the case where I will collect data and introduce to you as clearly as what I'll be feeling in this investigation. Of course, I agree that there must be a strategy when men are going into action at least. 50 billion, but probably much more. Somebody said 80. Is there any more? Somebody said 100 billion. No one really knows how much this will cost. It's amazing if you don't find a plan. Mr. President. Of course, I understand the fear of developing a strategy for such a line that costs 80 billion or more if participation in public transportation continues to be 4%, as it has been in the past decade despite an injection in the program to increase the share of public transport. Of course, I don't understand those who don't. I ignore the task of making a management plan, for the outcome of such a strategy would not be impressive. I'm not talking about if the business should last just a fraction of the basic cost, let alone the daily cost of business. But that's different. Of course, we are in the central category of public transportation, as well as the fact that countries and rural areas make public transportation, so important. But here we are talking about all the other sums we've never seen in Iceland for public transport, as this project shows. That's my turn to talk. paritaprevir Sigrims Andersen speaking about the ransom that we members of the Central Party have been discussing quite a bit. She's talking about what the neighbors are getting out of this deal. Of course, they get considerable transportation within their rural communities, i.e. Copavoir, Hafnarfjördur, Garvell town, Mosfellsville and Seltanenes, I guess. She says, with President's permission: However, our neighboring communities benefit greatly from the Höfundborg Convention. They are receiving long - awaited roads that have been under way by the government for the past few years, and I congratulate them on this. Above all, they get this city line that I think they don't have to lay out for, the neighboring communities, but they are largely out of the State's hands with some kind of currency. This is the point, Mr. President, and the food of the baby, as was said in the country of old times. They're letting the State take part in this project, which has been more propaganda - positive, as I have repeatedly been on it. The State is being lured into this. Then I say, sitting here at the council, stopping. I won't accept this. I will not agree that we go on this journey, into this dream, which is not based on a stronger foundation than there really is. It's supposed to be 50 billion and more. I say no to that, absolutely. This is the ransom that the State is paying, and neighboring communities and the common people in the hope, Mr. President, that the road system in the capital area is making some progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u175	Mr. President. I just want to review an interesting article written by a former senator, Frosti Sigurjónsson. He has studied the city line project very well, and he has much interesting to say about it. The mayor and mayor of the capital area have given a talk and wrote that they believe that city lines are economic and eco-friendly and in order to improve transport capacity, improve quality of life, shorten travel time, reduce accidents, and reduce construction costs. All of this is the beautiful words and wonderful promises of a city line, but by closer examination, it becomes clear how unlikely the city line can meet those huge expectations. However, Frosti says: "The economy is still very moving. " And you're absolutely right. Even Reykjavíkurburg employees who are under so - called city line projects have been hired. Nevertheless, the General has not agreed to the state's debt on the project. Nevertheless, the project is on the move, and every home in the capital area may be 1◯2 million. Under the headline: There is no way that a urban line can be a cost of transport, says Frosti: ▪ The city's high cost is estimated to be 70 to150 billion, but the same amount could be done much more and more effective to improve transport in the capital area. It must be said, Mr. President, that this is naturally an incredibly large and massive investment that will adversely affect the survival of the people in the area. The cost is huge. It adds: "If the amount of money is divided in the 85 thousand homes in the area, there will be a total of $8,000 million in each home. This is not included in the sacrifice of significant investments in the past years, as well as parking lots and green areas will be sacrificed. You ask yourself, Mr. President: Is this really what the people in the capital area want? This has often been discussed with the Netherlands, a very valuable land owned by a trust fund, and the government funds are going to be the reality of this project. It goes on: The 'Borg line will, for example. pontaneously across the valley hole, which is now a green area This project is being sacrificed a great deal, and there is also no forgetting the massive traffic issue involved in such traffic projects and it will last for 10 to 15 years. Can you imagine? This is an amazing long period that will be subjugated to projects that no one really knows what the results will be. The premise for the construction of the city line is that the public's interest in traveling by public transportation, traveling by bus, is tripled from the present level, tripled. What guarantee do humans have? Now there are only 4% of travel in the capital area by bus, but the ratio has to reach 12%, so it works out. If this situation does not work out, the loss of the city line may be worth billions each year. At the same time, Reykjavíkurborg owes 116 billion, the sum of the 340 billion, and the debt of state funds has reached 300 billion by the virus epidemic. And then countries and rural societies are to be committed far into the future because of something that no one really knows whether will produce the results that humans think will bring. I have to say, Mr. President, because the time is getting over, that it is indistinguishable that men think of taking this journey in those days. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I wish to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u176	Mr. President. It has been considered in speeches here tonight that the city's budget is very difficult. Hence, it is no doubt a major challenge to get a contract all at once, in which the State promises to put 50 billion in practice that is completely uncalculated, both at the cost of building and at the cost of firing. Prescientism has in itself never followed the greater part of the modern - day city in Reykjavík, which has been in charge of this city for about 12 years or so. I related in a speech the other day that when they wanted to learn new things in currency, i.e. In a parking lot, a pretty large delivery committee went to San Francisco, U.S.A., to check out parking instructions. In a situation like this, people tend to resort to some kind of advice. But now that the city is suddenly waved in front of a contract of 50 billion members of the state of this assignment that we've been discussing, people are flying. The head of a committee in the city of Reykjavík said during the days that it was time to inspect a train system, Mr. President, in this regard. The mayor, blessed, said something along the way to an interview that would be an irresistible attempt. Of course, it is irresistible to experiment like this if someone pays for you. It's like coming into a business and getting your own money done and having Grandpa write everything you take out. You buy what you want, a rocking horse and a power train and what you can think of. There seems to be no end to the mess right now when this adventure begins, there's no plan to plan the next story that's a subway, a lightest, and a porting. I think they took the best of everything they saw and thought, " It's good to have it here. ' Yes, we've seen a light train in Copenhagen, a million people, a year's well over 350,000 inhabitants. The Australians are off the grid. There's as many of them as there's smoke. They're pulling out, they didn't think to go into it. Yes, seaports are likely in Stockholm, a city of 1,000,000,1,200 people. This is what people want to do in Reykjavík. It's natural, as I said before, like going into the business company and getting paid yourself and having Grandpa write it, because if there's someone who takes the account when you've spent all the money, then you can, like, care how it all goes together, and as it says, it's easy to be generous with other people's money. But I notice, Mr. President, with some concerns, that there are two areas in the capital area that are completely ahead of this transport, at least for the first two chapters of it. It is its Seltiannes, and the other, Eelphunes, a part of the town of Garden. I've studied here in the past that it seems that some direction from the mayor of Reykjavík is being made to prevent the segregation of and from the city of Reykjavík because of the pressure to the rest of the country. They're closing up on the Ring Road, they're closing in on the Birkim. They're about to set up ten traffic lights on Einnisgrada. Don't let people out of the Hygis Page, 'cause it's a 20-mile street. Perhaps the portport to preach was the blessed mayor. Maybe we're just supposed to jump on the Backcarver or somewhere nearby and sail off to Reykjavík, which would probably be fun on summer days, but I'm not sure that it's fun in the north end of the country sometimes. I was going to consider this better, Mr. President, but time will not last, so I pray. President putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u177	Mr. President. During my double, even triple, public transportation system, I forgot porting as far as possible. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson reminded me. Not only is there not going to be twice the bus system and perhaps the modern - day railway system, both urban and member statesmen, but it would also add portry. Four-fold system in small Reykjavík. Of course, this is just because all these ideas are completely out of touch with the reality and nature of the city city city of Reykjavík. I was beginning to review a document, an amazing document, which is an illuminating for this discussion, a document that we media have under the hands of the Ministry. It's entitled "Giving Permissions for Public Transportation. " This letter is dated November 12, 2018, from the city's office, in which Reykjavíkurburg is requested by the State to change the law to allow the city to pay more taxes to its citizens. It explains the ways in which people would want to do this, and they mention two ways in which they can do it. On the one hand, there was one thing they call a change in organizational law, which says, by permission of a president: ▪ The city of Revenge suggests order, No. 123/2010, will be changed to add the legislation on the authority of our companies to collect innuendo. The law will be as follows: Then there are even four articles of this law. The city is not content with making a suggestion for the tax on the wood; rather, it begins to write the articles in the laws for the State. After reading this letter, if any of us have had doubts about who are leading this disastrous development all along, there should be no doubt about it, since the city is actually laying its lines to the point where it is beginning to write a law for the State, before the Council. In fact, these articles contain a report. They'll write the report with the bill they're going to accept. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. for the purpose of this new law that the city was writing before the council, by permission of the president: ▪ The aim of this new law is to ensure participation in the stockholders' costs at the construction of stocks, in a manner comparable to that of landowners, when the proposed shared system means that a building site or increased building warrants will be authorized on the property property. So it's explained, and what comes during the day? Yes, they're going to collect this innuendo fee to survive the city line. However, they offer two options for how this increased tax system in Reykjavík will be held. It was this earlier suggestion that I crossed here, change in organizational laws, and then two proposals for a change in the law of transliteration, No. 153/2006. It says, by permission of the president: The European Court of Auditors, a member of the European Union, suggests that a new currency must be established in the law of No. 153/2006, about the cross-cutting fees that must be paid for the construction of transport workers. They know these traditional punitive charges, but there is a new cut - down fee that is to be justified by means of means of the construction of a means of transportation. It is used to add regulations in 5 mg. Section 3. The law that deals with the ransom price. Let the saying be as follows: The cost of building should be collected when a confirmed sharing structure allows for public transport, resulting in a value increase in real estate and/or allowing for an increased building authority on the relevant property. [[The president calls.]] President. I guess I'll just have to finish reading this sentence and explain it to you in the next speech, so I'm gonna ask you to give me the best. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u178	V.E.G. President. I intend to proceed with public transportation between settlements and the section on public transportation. It aims to work on the following emphasis to improve public transport services and to make them more accessible and more attractive to users. I'm going to read these four highlights, with the permission of the president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. The entire network of public transport between species will be defined by agreed service criteria and co-ordinated means. 2. A whole system of expeditions is regularly sought out for the use and will of the population. It is important to examine how people behave so that they can respond and adapt if circumstances change. 3. Work to set up a interactive information system on a global public transport system on land, air, and uterus. 4. The marketing of the service should be increased. A search should be made to ensure that access to disabled persons and motorists to the public transport between areas will be the best option. All of these emphasis is to help improve and make it easier for the ministry. Since this is about information management and to help people obtain the information they want and need to be able to use public transportation, it is sure that it is also attractive to those who normally do not use public transportation. It is also clear that because it has a positive national benefit, the number of people who make good use of public transport between communities needs to be increased. The next chapter discusses safe transportation, and there are more important chapters in this document. The key is to reduce accidents, and offering safe transportation also makes people more confident about going along with, for example. Bus. These are set standards, as was the case in the first chapter. It is estimated that 2018 died alone in public transport and that the desired position for 2024 is that there is no one. The ratio of waiting points to meet design and safety requirements was not known in 2018 and the desired position for this is 90%. Both of these points refer to a responsible person, a Grouping Agency and the Roadmaker and Istavia, as well as to the waiting station. As I mentioned, safe public transport is key to public trust and key priorities for the progress of the objective are to ensure that the whole public transport systems are safe and that safety equipment is always new and in the top order. This will also discuss identifying ways of improving quality and security and that at the world's main exchange centres, additional services and information should be assured. It should be noted that the infrastructure is in priority when it comes to winter services and that in all activities and maintenances, the ministry is especially considered, and, of course, the way to be least disturbed is to do so. I'm waiting for the highest. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u179	A respectable president. There are, of course, a number of pictograms. It's flying, turning and sailing, it's the roads, the tourists, the residents of the country, and so on. We carry goods, take vacations and other things, and use them for the interior. Therefore, it is so important that the plans we have for our interiors are practical and practical, walking up and down. While a policy plan is important in making a long - term plan so that work and preparation can be done, a transport plan is worth no more than the money placed in it. That is why it is very important that we discern the difference. It has been pointed out, including in some committees, the need for transport to be 400 billion, some of which are listed here. This will include the items that will be added during the periods of planning. We also need to be prepared to face various setbacks when it comes to transportation, whether it is a seaporting for a great surfer or something like that, moving, or flooding, can pull along and take a long road. Of course, we've seen this happen many times. Airfields can squeeze and land like Iceland, but I think it's better if more airports than fewer people can take on bigger planes. So I miss the fact that the majority of the objects do not add more to the wording that one of the country's best airports is getting more important in a transport plan, i.e. Alexander's airport, Sheep's Roof. It's like he's being mentioned as a token. I wondered why it is done, whether it is being suggested in rural governments or the rest of the north, who have long fought for the reputation of the course and foreordained the ground they should be. Then, of course, I have no dreams that from then on, a great deal will be made by flight by passenger to Iceland. It's primarily a backfield for international airports. The airports we use today for international flights are in Cheflavík, Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Eglúsves. I have to admit, Mr. President, I don't know if any bigger planes could be hit at more airports. If we watch the nests of these airports, they will be suitable for different airports, for example. capital area. Although in the Lagits, there's an airport that's quite good, and I'm glad we're putting money on track there, I think we should keep building that airport. It will be important as well as the Akureyri airport. But it is quite obvious that it is more beneficial for everyone if a plane could land in about three - and - a - half - four - hour drive from Reykjavík, that it would be more than an hour or a half or two to get people to their posts, instead of having to drive on buses for perhaps six, seven, eight hours over three, four, even five more pagans. V.E.G. President. This is what I miss a bit of looking at. There's some special politics in defending the ones that are already in existence without considering the overall context. That would be, for example. very precious for Akureyri airports to have very close to a good reserve airport that could take the planes that can't land in Akureyri and perhaps take passengers there for a while. This would strengthen all travel services, especially in Akureyri and the Islanders, and from the east and west throughout the world. This is one of the issues mentioned by some halfhearted committees in the majority of the section rather than as a solemnized, fixed statement. I miss something, Mr. President, not taking this matter more seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u180	V.E.G. President. I was in my final talk on transportation, and I would like to take this talk to the tourist service. It's certainly connected to the flight, but it's also on the ground, on the roads of the country. There are also depositors and collections from road transport. " By permission of the President, " says a review of the Group of Tourists: ▪ In view of the objective that SAF and the government have worked to ensure the desired distribution of tourists across the country, and thus contribute to the practical use of infrastructure and production factors. Go on says: The budget provides considerable emphasis on transport funding using user expenditures and the practical use of transport. SAF has felt that it is normal and reasonable for those using transport resources to build and maintain them. And later, in the long term program, the president's permission says: In terms of environmental costs and external costs such as accidents, pollution and Tax time, wise use of transport and energy resources can be encouraged and contribute to greater national benefits. It is important that individuals and homes have an inexpensive choice, thus reducing their transport costs. Then there is a discussion of the precariousness of the paying. At this time, a debate over user fees and charges is strongly fueled by the uncertainty of whether governments's plans will change or even increase the burden of taxes and pay to those who own and run vehicles. It is safe to argue that the building of taxes in the form of fuel costs and other taxation, which take directly or indirectly because of the use of fuel vehicles, is falling on foot and the government will have to respond in some way. However, it is not clear whether taxation will be added to the current taxation or whether it will replace it. Meanwhile, companies and individuals live in uncertainty, which has been reflected in negative attitudes toward altered taxes or reimbursement. When a new arrangement for transportation has been raised, the negative reaction may arise in some kind of opposition to construction. According to SAF, it is a political task to respond in an acceptable way, but it is clear that these positions will be met with firmness. SAF emphasizes the importance of making decisions on the new budget of transport, not contributing to the increasing burden of taxation for tourism companies. On the other hand, the organization welcomes the seemingly transparent emphasis on the long - term program. The point is that the discussion has been somewhat disturbed or has not brought it into the ground, so it has been taken lightly as to how to earn money, i.e. what the system will be like. We live in the days when big changes are ahead, and it is urgent that the political being able to handle this discussion that is necessary and that it will become a subject rather than an agitator. [[The president calls.]] I'm not very far into the review, so I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u181	Mr. President. There are many aspects in the country. However, it is not unforeseeable that the city line attracts much attention in this discussion because it is the greatest project. Of course, it is a very controversial subject, Mr. President, and it sucks up money that might otherwise be used to the important and need of transportation edifices. In this regard, I would like to mention the necessity that the Grand Way will be stopped from a tantamount and west in Hague Square. I'd also like to mention the importance of swimming. We're going to need more complicated corners and lights. All of these are factors that have fallen to make traffic easier and to improve safety and quality of life for people living in the capital area and for all of the people of the country who are naturally relevant to the city. I'm going to say, as a result, that I'm surprised that the factors that we've made here are not the basis for the conversation between the members of the so - called city line to come here and discuss with us who have been trying to maintain a controversial discussion of this matter, of the factors that are relevant. Where is e.g. a discussion of these findings on the road engineer's point that public transportation can be achieved by spending several billion people, as he puts it in an article on the core rather than a dozen or hundreds of billions of dollars? Why are those who fulfill their commission not able to discuss this? Why don't they come here and talk about a cost plan, that it's something that's on the market? Why do they not discuss the dangers of such an expense plan, in the sense that they have factors that could overtake us? Why do they not discuss the question that has been raised here on the interestfulness of the project? What profit can be expected from this assignment? Why don't they come here and talk about the environmental effects? Why don't they talk about a management plan? In fact, we recall that there was a plan for management in exchange for verbal exchange. paritaprevir The powers of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who follows the city line according to what it says and what it says. paritaprevir I could hear no better than Bergþór's son, Ólason's son, that it was best for her to understand that such a strategy was not in place. I am happy to be corrected if I have misunderstood that discussion. Now that's the way it is. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, chairman of the Central Party, has directed the challenge to the former businessman and police officer, the principal of the police school, why. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason, that he makes a search for that strategy, she must be there, she must be somewhere in a drawer. Of course, it would be informative if that were so. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiš could describe what methods are available for making police, of course they are not available to him because he is naturally not there, but what methods would be most useful to support this management plan. I have to discuss these matters, Mr. President, and ask to be reassigned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u182	Mr. President. In terms of the city line management strategy, the study is extremely slow. I found it on the site of the West Side community that they were asking about this same thing. There seems to be others in the same study, i.e. To find a schedule. Perhaps that search will work before long. To be honest, I'm expecting her to exist. You cannot be going on such a expedition that costs tens of billions, 80 billion, without any planning. But as everyone knows, public transportation has been subsidized by the communities and to some extent also by the government for years, so I don't expect a plan, however calculated, to show profit, at all. What we're curious about is how much trouble the community's business costs will be. It is not enough just to calculate the city line into the picture but also to take into account the public cars, but they will remain active. Once a city line becomes realized, the mission of today's bus cars will continue to take people from the neighborhood to the city line. People need to take their own wagon in their neighborhood, drive with it to the next line of the city, and then take the car to their destination, or near their destination, and then take another wagon from there, a normal bus, to their own place of work, if that is the case. It is not as if all problems are solved, and people simply get along. That's not true at all. At the same time, people will continue to struggle in all weathers between stations and destinations, both city lines and public cars. There's another system being built on top of where it is now. I hadn't finished speaking yet. paritaprevir It's Sigríður on. Andersen. I just got to the premise. In her speech, she mentioned that she felt that he was not much about in the Committee to Study in a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, considering the economic situation that has been due to the virus epidemic. She says that she misses the lack of the financial failures that have been made. She says, after she has told you that you have to face the reality, that it is very important that the limited amount of money that exists is in Reykjavík - of course, a member of the Council of Smoking. It stresses that to remedy the situation of the road being a threat, this money should be given a reasonable, practical approach. Hv. A senator is talking about this amount being donated in a city line, of course, should provide practical and reasonable investments in the transport sector. Suppose this money would be given to increase the number of lanes, to make more misdirected corners, which cost just a fraction of the cost of the city line, would surely increase space, and not just for the family car but also for the public carriages that are already stopped in the city's transport system. You can't quite get to the point where you're going to make the family car even more tight to get a city line on your feet.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u183	Mr. President. During my final talk, I was studying the very interesting analysis of Frosti, the Sigurjónsson of Siglejon, a former member of the council, on the city line of this project. What he has stated in these matters is of great interest, and he has apparently spent much time studying the assignment. He says, with President's permission: It seems that the urban line is an extremely hazardous and risky project, and less expenses and a number of ways could be achieved, much more effective in improving transport in the area. He says exactly, by permission of the President: It is wrong to have a city line ◯ a vastly larger capacity for transport. There is very little demand for the type of transport that the city line offers. It is of little value that half the city linecars ring through the transport system. However, the type of transport today that is highly sought will be greatly affected by the use of road vehicles now dedicated to the city line. Thus, the city line will increase traffic congestion during periods of stress but will not reduce it. This is a very reasonable conclusion made by a former senator, Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson. He has studied this assignment very carefully and has developed very reasonable opinions about it. In this article, he examines what even we have in the media. pointed out in our talks, that the city line project will damage the current road system in the capital. The private car is being squeezed and forced into the use of public transportation and the bus system, the city line system, which is a bus of the larger type. Although the city authorities have declared that this is a military option, etc. that's not the case. It is obvious that as a result of the pressure on the car ride, people will spend longer hours on the road to work and from house to house, and this is done in order to see the benefit of taking these buses. This is nothing but the consumer management of the transport system that we in the Central Party are not interested in. The travel time factor can be solved in a much faster way than with the city line, e.g. by making misdirected corners and by reforming footways, both urgent projects that have been ignored because all powder has been in an effort to get people to use public transportation and this bus system more than they have done. It hasn't worked. Mr. President. The fact is that there has been virtually no success in increasing the number of bus passengers. The cost of the government and the city authorities was large, but the results are very small and must not be viewed only by humans? What is the experience? Experience is that it is very difficult to get Icelanders to use public transportation to as much as necessary in order for this project called the city line to serve its purpose. However, the administrative sector in Reykjavík is forwarding, and now the state power and financial minister of the Independence Party intends to run in with the city and finance this mayor's pet project in Reykjavík, although there is no up-to-date plan for business and what this will do for the future. Already a substantial amount of money is paid by the bus system and quite clear that it will also have to be done with this project. Mr. President. I've just begun to review this interesting article by Frosti Sigurjónsson, former U.S. Marshal, asking to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u184	V.E.G. President. I have discussed the first two stages of a city line that is now in circulation or were introduced a few days ago. It is as if something happened to this case that they were throwing in great showcases. Two shots I took from this presentation do not indicate that this is as rosy and beautiful as has been claimed. Among these, I have mentioned several times that now I have heard that the seating ship and seating in this panter will be introduced tomorrow or that it was at the hold, either. People are always shooting up fireworks on this one, and much of it is financed by the state so that people can act like drunken sailors, as once said, by natural rudeness to that class of men. It is predicted that for the next 15 years, there will be two systems going on and even longer because they have said that there is no trace between the bus discontinuation and the use of this device. I led a chance in a speech earlier that a man who takes up a city line on Cape, with his first plan, will arrive at 13 miles and 22 stations later in Hamburg, Kópavogi, and two stops there are small wells. I said, " This can't be a quick way to travel around this area. ' I've only been looking to a foreign country because there's a lot of talk that there's something wrong with us, these premeditated middle-class members, who don't want this quick release, that we should look to the neighboring countries, and that's exactly what I've been doing. I've told you about the experience of Álaborg, which is similar in size to that of Reykjavík, similar to that of the United States. There they have not gone on such a adventure. Rather, they have improved the public bus system. I've wondered - it's not really possible, Mr. President, but it would be interesting to ask for a report for it - this billion a year to increase the number of people who use public transportation from 4% to 4% in nine years. It's 9 billion. From 4% to 4%, that's a hell of a job. You might have wondered how it would be to use some of that money they're now putting in these nests, this cotem show that the city line looks like, and put a fraction of this money at first, in order to have only free in the bus, and to see if it had an impact, an increase in travel rate, and even change the organizational drive, changing the ways so it would be easier to change the changes e.g. about buses, etc. I know, for example. To a man who lives in the eastern part of Kopavogs, who works in the tombholti, far behind, this is an hour's journey by two different stations and amazing crow tracks and steps that have gone. You've wondered whether it's worth the effort to go that way before we start pouring 50 billion in the first place and sacrificing the Land of Christmas to pay for it. I would have liked to go further and deeper into this discussion, Mr. President, but I see that my time is over and wait for it to begin. A president putting me back on the rosary so that I can continue these thoughts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u185	Mr. President. I hope you've heard the last two talks I've given about a letter we've got under the hands of a government agency. That letter is sent from Reykjavíkurburg, sent by a city attorney, to a minister in which the city is explaining to the secretary of transportation which laws the state is and to us at the Council for the city to increase taxation in the city of Reykjavík. It is not enough to pray for such a change. Rather, the city sends a new law, with different articles and even with a report. However, the Kingdom has two options, but in both cases the book and the report have already been written. V.E.G. President. It's kind of a matter for a management and surveillance committee and I'm wondering if it's the highest level. The president of the Committee can arrange for this matter to be addressed. This city is actually controlling the government. It is characteristic of this case that the city is directing the establishment of the government to all the way, from laying the lines on financing, and the state starts scraping together by selling the Citylands and possibly Iceland banks and putting new spells on the citizens, to legalize the city so that it can also add new charges against citizens to attack the city line. I had briefly traced the first proposal to mention the article she was following and had begun to review two of the city's proposals to the State, or recommendations, of which law should be made. There the city proposes a change in the law of the repair price, saying: It is used to add regulations in 5 mg. Section 3. The law that deals with the ransom price. The directive will be as follows: The tropospheric tax shall be collected when a confirmed community transport dissociation stipulation allows for the construction of public transport leading to an increase in the value of real estate and/or allowing additional building warrants to become available on the relevant property. This is clearly the city, when these laws have been passed by the government, will be allowed to interpret any sharing structure allowing public transportation to result in a higher value real estate, and it will also be used as an excuse to charge those who are setting up an apartment or a job building. We can only imagine whether the city would always come to the conclusion that land somewhere near the city line would be more valuable and therefore justified in adding more money to those living there. These two paths are here, and this letter, which sheweth no doubt, who hath the tail and hail in this matter. It is Reykjavíkurburg, the rest of the rural areas in the trite capital area, after accepting the ransom, and the government follows. Time and again, the city lures the secretary of transportation to sign new contracts, and then the mayor explains in the news the following day or on the day what the minister was signing. Mr. President. I'm going to discuss the Sunway, and I'm going to ask to be put on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u186	President. I'm here in the document on the global policy of public transport in areas where economic transport is being discussed. Last I was talking about the section that was involved in security and ended up saying that the importance of safe transportation is soon to be overrated, since every human life is priceless. The next chapter on safe transportation is the following. It is almost that money is known to be limited in public service, so it is important that it be used as best and always seek ways to achieve the quality and service that can be achieved. This section is provided with a tablet that is very similar to previous tablets. Two factors are covered, first of all, the price of domestic flight relative to the development of overall prices. The score of 2018 is 100 and the desired position 2024 will be the same or lower. Second, public quality prices are compared to the development of general prices and are set to the same scale, 2024 to 2018, or lower. Main priorities for achieving these economic goals are, by permission of the president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. There must be some way that public transport can be competitive to the option that single travel in the car, including the car, will be considered. The building of reimbursement and general transportation. 2. Make sure that the transport systems and services of the three roads are integrated. It is important that financial responsibility and responsibilities be shared in the planning of the ministry. 3. The practical way to strengthen the legal environment of public transport is to be more supportive of the ministry. Similarly, the legislators must be alert to opportunities for transport development and to ensure that legislation will support, support, and not interfere with their progress. It is finally summed up how this affects Icelandic society. Public transportation is a key factor, is said here, and again, it is about the need for services to grow and thrive for the benefit of all. There are opportunities to use new transport solutions and sharing services to expand the service area, allowing the people to have access to it just within their home. Also, there is the competitiveness of passengers and a simplified price file, which is an obvious way to strengthen the competitiveness of public transport. This is under the view that the state will handle these public transportation. The goal of 4 is for public transportation as a key factor in government climate targets. You will start with a tablet as before. It contains carbon emissions per passenger kilometer in an internal flight, and it is decided that by 2024 it should be reduced by 10% compared to the current position. The same is done on the ferry cruises as on the use of public cars, with 10% less emissions being delivered today. I'll let it go for now and wait for it. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u187	V.E.G. President. When my last talk ended, I was quoting a review from the organization's Association, which is very interesting. I'm going to go back to the area where they left off, which says, with the President's permission: ▪ It is safe to say that tourism companies do not have a pleasant experience in the collected pay that is already being prepared. It is enough to refer to the implementation of the collection of roadways at Vella Passways and posts in National Parks and private garages. They have the unique right to lay a price on registered owners or drivers who drive through the tunnel. National parks and private carhouses have collected expedited fees on the basis of the legal principle that a registered owner or manager likely has a new position without paying for it. Such a rule, however, is not relevant in the case of driving equipment, where it can be said that the law is contrary, that it is legal, that a registered owner or authority does not have a place without payment. In view of this, drivers at the scene of SAF have consistently turned down payment on unregistered grounds and noncontracted agreements. The reimbursement of rent payments is accompanied by a considerable misdemeanor and the cost of driving rents, which, in some cases, have to be held out by an entire employee who is a sole worker who has the responsibility of paying from the complications and reciprocate rents on public parks and tunnels. In cooperation with the National Park in the United States, the tenures were able to solve much of the problem and have, in effect, taken in the collection of fees that fall into it. However, the experience of driving vehicles has made it clear that it is neither efficient nor practical to obtain tax pay on vehicles by moving the risk of correctly returning to a travel service company. This must be kept in mind if, in the case of a driver's car, he or she is to be taken into account. According to the above, SAF's position on the collection of road costs is clear: responsible for the payment must be given to the driver himself and, in the case of tourism companies, it is only possible that they will take responsibility on the basis of a contract, which includes. Ensures that the risks of underpaying pay will not be obtained from the companies. In addition to the above, SAF gives a special reason for government use of road costs and to ensure that the stress and collect system of roads will be coordinated and could have unfashioned contact with the accounting and accounting systems of tourism companies. Only by such means will the efficiency of stress and loyalty be obtained. In the field of SAF, there has been a significant talk about payment of roads, especially for vehicles that weigh more than 3.5 tons in their own weight. It has been noted that it does not appear to matter whether vehicle weights e.g. 3.6 tons of its own weight or 47 tons of total body weight, [...]. According to SAF, this situation is simply neither fair nor objective, so the organization feels very important that this will be considered in the decision of the taxpayers. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. I'm asking to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u188	V.E.G. President. We continue to talk about the transport plan and the related tasks. This is better related to everything. As others have missed our questions, so have I. that the funding and risks of a government fund when it comes to the joint projects mentioned here are answered. It is unacceptable that some undefined risks exist regarding expenses or the role of a government fund in the future on the various projects and including this city line, so called. Now it has to be acknowledged. 1st. Smoke. For example, Sigríður Andersen has a point when she speaks of this impassable phenomenon. Various exports have been heard, and some implementation is being shown right now, near the General Assembly. At the same time, trains or some of these are being referred to as part of the transport system in the country and are likely to link this city line in some way. You're only confused about what the real plan is. I wanted to mention again what I came up with in one of my previous talks and made it possible for the transport work to be done. Of course, all of this is to be realized by means of this transport program. However, there is a phrase that bothers me a little, and I called for answers from the greater part, but I haven't got one. On page 17 of this committee article, we will discuss the lack of clear policy-making between rural and urban transport groups and the cost shifts are not clear. The members of the body say, on permission of the president: It is more important that road laws be made clear about government and rural development on urban transport so that the expense shifts under the Treaty are in accordance with the Law. Encourages the committee to review the law in this regard. The majority of them realizes that there is complete uncertainty about the cost of changing projects between the state and the rural community. However, rather than sit down and try to see if there are any misunderstandings regarding expenses or the role of the State Fund in all these projects, you should continue to do so. We generals are assigned to manage the government's funds. This we do best to be as fully informed as to what money is going to be and to try to focus on events that are clearer and better than when it was started. This is a fine example of what needs to be done. We need to clarify this. This is one small part of all the criticism we've had here regarding these projects, in terms of city lines, regarding the transport contract. It is this vaguely high - cost change that the majority recognizes and mention in their committees. In fact, I'm going to celebrate and thank the greater part for mentioning this because it would be serious if it hadn't been exposed, if not, how important it is that the cost-change is clear. At the same time, a significant part of the majority of the issue is to be handled in the way that it is done, although it is evident that this exchange does not exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-22-122.u189	A respectable president. I have to say that a conversation about a city line as a key part of a transport program - a key factor I say is that this is the most expensive project -- to be what I allow me to call the theater of the absurd. For one thing, Mr. President, economic factors are, unfortunately, completely altered for the worse and only to see that it will take some time to work out of it. They are completely changed, and unfortunately they are far from being worthwhile, although the prospect of things is good in our beautiful, happy land. Secondly, some members of the Parliament, at least, and all available, are represented by the local financial status of the local community after the viral epidemic and in view of its impact. Here I refer to the comments made by the European Union partner to form and Reykjavíkurburg, on the other hand, to the reviews of bills submitted to cope with the effects of the virus epidemic. It contains an analysis and description of the least - reported financial situation of the local community after this epidemic. The Commission's review of the Union's rural society is guided by the permission of the President's permission of: ▪ In view of the above, the Community Management Board concluded that it is important that government funds are involved in a broad range of collective measures and with direct financial support to protect the services and activities of the whole country. Clearly, the rural communities written for this urban project have no financial basis for that, just none. This is very evident, Mr. President, of the comments of the city of Reykjavík, by permission of the president: It is likely that most rural communities will be experiencing severe financial conditions this year and the following years, as the above analysis describes for Reykjavík. - There's a lot of description of how this city's economy's gotten worse. In the 2 or the next pack of measures, it is necessary to analyze the financial resources of your community and provide practical measures to ensure that they can carry out their legal tasks toward citizens and businesses. Mr. President. What reason is it not to be talking about some city line in the billions or much more likely hundreds of billions of dollars of government funds that have come into a much worse position than he was a few months ago and a community so on their knees that they themselves do not have enough money to care for legal projects? This is usually so far - fetched that it does not speak. It is most unaccountable to offer such an offer. The city lines are to be taken back and out of this transport program. I have to discuss these reviews, Mr. President, and ask to be re-registered on the rosary.
