ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, Foreign Director and Development Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u2	A respectable president. Today, 41,610 people have signed a petition that a new constitution be established on the basis of a board of administration, according to the results of the National Code of the same issue on October 20, 2012. Presidency ministers have been held, but their available produce is somewhat different from the rhythm of such expectations, both in size and in content. However, part of the procedure has been given the Venice Committee's review of the prime news that has been reported to be proposed by the prime minister. A review by the Venetian Committee is presented by permission of a president: ▪ The authority believes that the Icelandic nation should have an obvious, clear, convincing explanation of the way of the government and, in addition, that the reason why the proposals previously approved in the 2012 Council should be explained to the public. A respectable president. I'm asking the highest. The prime minister of whatever obvious, clear, and convincing explanation she would like to give the public some important points from the proposals that were previously accepted in a advisable national fee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good inquiry. I would like to remind you of the Venice Committee that she gave of the drafts she was working with at the council after the Council of Government concluded her work and returned her bill to the Council. That's when the studio sent it to the highest level. The Commission's commission and monitoring committee is reporting to the Venice Committee. There, the Venice Committee made very serious comments to the available document, including that there would be considerable uncertainty, interpretation of the existing text, and how it would affect the legislation. Similarly, the founding network of the bill was criticized for being too complicated, and there was much internal inconsistencies. Although the public's presence was well received through national pay, the Venice Commission also felt that this arrangement was too complicated and needed a more thorough discussion. In context of this, the Venice Commission wondered that if these proposals were to become reality, they would cause political instability and undermine good government practices, there would be reason to investigate. I'm just taking a few points that came up in the opinion that we spoke here at the Council of 2012 in 2012/2013 and that, although the 2012 National Convention was carried out, it was carried out by giving a bill to the General Parliament, as they were. Councilmen mentioned here might say that the discussion on these matters has not even been over. That's why I've said, if we want to have a conversation with the people, it's important that we discuss these matters at the Hall of Congress and deal materially with the changes we feel should be made in a constitution, that we're based on the suggestions that were made, including the other. During the campaign period 2009•2013, since there were very many good things there, but we also discuss what we do not agree on in these proposals, as if to form the Venetian Committee, we were told to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u4	A respectable president. Now 41,623 people have signed. I must admit that when I wrote this inquiry, I had in mind some possible answers that the prime minister could bring and was prepared for some of them. I wasn't prepared for this. I can appreciate the presentation of prime minister in this way, and I sincerely hope that the Prime Minister would correct me, that it is the 2013 Venice Committee's review that makes it the highest level. The prime minister wants to take important steps from the subsidiary of governance. If the highest. Of course, the prime minister feels that we should put a new constitution on the basis of it, that we should work to fix the problems that have been pointed out, to accept comments, and to make updates on the subsidiary body of directors. But that is not what was done. I agree with the highest. Ministers that we should discuss the matter at the Assembly Hall, which is what we have, the Pirans and the Continent and others, have put it here for discussion. I'd like to use the second question to ask the highest question. Minister if I understand it correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u5	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks if he understood me correctly. I don't really understand how he understood me. He came up here and testified that the Venice Committee felt that we needed to give a good explanation of why the process had been changed in this way. I agree, and I explained that the best way to explain it was to have a material discussion about the suggestions that may include. Pirates and the Conspiracy are expected to offer, based on subtractive administration, but also the suggestions we have been working on in the field of the officers. We would have a material discussion about things that have been debated, such as total pay or a natural price, with different resources and so forth. It is by far the best way to have a meaningful discussion with the people of the country. But I also allowed myself to point out that the Venice Committee made very extensive material comments to the Council of Government, and I think we need to take them into account when we are having this material discussion. That's all I'm calling out for. In case of a moment. A senator has understood me so that I call for the very fact that we are going into the nature of the situation, he has understood me correctly. That's what I think the Council should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u6	A respectable president. From the beginning of the pandemic, we have supported the government in all the steps taken to meet the economic consequences of the virus epidemic. We have encouraged the government to take greater steps than it has done to meet the needs of homes and businesses. Of course, we are aware that not everyone can be saved, but the steps need to be larger. We also need to be careful that we do not divide our community into two groups, the group where the virus bites little or nothing, and the population that is affected by the virus and will face great problems, social and economics. That's what we need to watch out for. There are many good things, as I say, which the government has done in that case, but many things that can also sharpen for the better. When it comes to rural society, there is little economic bitch in it for the government, especially when we watch the financial agenda, if it intends to keep the system running and the message, they are that we are going to keep the system going through investments and small cuts, we agree - to send out the messages to the rural groups that are responsible for all this intimate services, including Social services, high rates of expenses for school and welfare and social services, to be put together, should be summed up and cut down on social matters. As Kristrún Frostadóttir said so correctly in both the Silfr and the explosion yesterday, it is the last thing the state should want now for rural governments to work against their own initiatives, i.e. to fight the stimulation operations of the government, many of which have been completely excellent. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What is the message to the countryside? The plan is to continue conversations with the rural community and to strengthen them and support them by helping with the credit costs, e.g. loans on better terms than walks and happens? Or is the message still on the part of the government that the local communities should put together their sails, that they should set up the sails in investments and cut down on social and welfare matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Since the beginning of the epidemic, the conversation between the state and the community has been under way. Of course, rural society is of utmost importance in this, including the U.S.A. to provide services that are important because of the epidemic. As an example, I want to mention in a more recent report from the World Bank, that this crisis has more influence on women than men, and more on young people than on older people. However, especially so, since schools have been open, the effect on women and younger people is lower than anywhere else, just so I take it as one example of the importance of community service and activities. Of course, there has been a conversation going on, and a very good report on the different areas of the rural community was made. You and I, who have been here a long time, know that, of course, the situation is very different between rural partners. It is not only the move that matters but, of course, not the smallest of the rural population dependent on tourism or air transport. I mention Southnes, but also smaller rural groups, to form in the South, Strupeepp, as an example of rural areas that have been less severe than others, in fact, due to the heavy and influential transport services and aerospaces in their economy. For this reason, especially those of the most common rural areas have been met by the collapse of six rural and southern tourism services. General measures have been taken since then, including due to the language of disabled persons, including as a result of financial support costs, including Based on strategy for the growth of the unit level and support to rural society, which have the greatest financial problem. What lies ahead, however, is an assessment of the situation, including the situation. compared to other North countries, since it comes out of the water, and we've talked a lot about comparing it with other North countries, that these issues are quite different, both between the Northern countries and particularly between Iceland and other northern countries. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll have a little time to come to that later in answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u8	A respectable president. I'm going to encourage the prime minister and the government to address the specific challenges of certain areas of the country to form Southnes. It doesn't mean getting close to the Southnes, as it was done after WOW, where they came along, that I think, 200 or 250 million, and then they were left entirely passive. That is why I rejoice if the prime minister watches the problem specifically. But I'd also like to ask, and I'd like to get an answer from the prime minister, if anything more will be done or if the stage will be further. The prime minister is a specific problem in which she operates with two other categories in a government that have no particular sense or show special sympathy for the capital, who performs a tremendously important social service, more than those of neighboring communities. So, of course, it's a problem when you feel a degree of hostility toward the local government level from a government member group, especially because you have everything in your corner with the city of Reykjavík. So my sympathy lies with the prime minister in that regard. I reiterate my question: What more should we do about our communities? [[The president calls.]] I'm happy if the conversation is going on, but I'm asking for clear answers: Is the government going to add further to this conversation with the local communities so that we don't look at cuts in investments and cuts in the welfare services, contrary to the plans the government has been trying to achieve? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u9	Mr. President. I mention it because of a joint statement made by state and rural society that total support for the rural industry on the basis of it is up to 5 billion or 4.8 billion. It does not contain specific donations. I'd especially like to mention, because of what. A senator mentions Southnesin, where the situation is very serious, that there was a decision to set up a new educational network, which I know to do. A senator no doubt hails, defending as many as 300 million on education for jobseekers, of course big business. However, my opinion is that we need to look at special situations in different rural areas and to look at the weightier projects, and then we need to, too, because it has been this comparison with other North countries, to look more closely at the comparison. There is a much greater part of public service in a rural community than in Iceland. In addition, rural areas in Iceland have independent revenue institutions. That's not true everywhere in the North. A more precise look at this is now being done so that this comparison will become more realistic. [[The president calls.]] But this conversation continues. Companys and countries were sitting with the labour market just this morning at a meeting of National Congress so that this conversation will continue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u10	A respectable president. Individuals have had to stay at the Land Hospital for months or more because their communities claim that they can no longer perform legal services. Their economic organizations have offered to the government to resolve their issues at once. Is it not time to reevaluate financially on the services that communities provide to disabled people and long - term needs? Because of the way the system is built up, people repeatedly fail to receive the appropriate services, the lack of agreements between rural society and the government on funding. There is no way to say no to people repeatedly about the necessary ministry. It's nothing but gross discrimination. It is a violation of human rights to self - abuse and to force them into an institution. If such a service is to be entrusted to rural society, the possibility of funding that service must be assured. At that time, governments should be legally authorized to provide services to disabled persons with long - term needs regardless of whether any agreement has been made for financial support. That would be the kind of people who are loaded at least to meet the responsibility of the service given. It must also be avoided that young and middle - aged people with a great need for support have no choice but to live in aging homes. A nursing home is for older people, and to make it difficult for anyone to force people there. Why don't you go to the top? Social minister treads up his sleeves, scraped his pants, and puts these matters right into shape his way, or is he okay with the situation as it is? Does he feel that this is a normal arrangement, and if not, what will he do?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. As the senator points out, we as members of a community are to guarantee the life, the position to live in the way that they want. This is not natural, nor is it directly contrary to the laws and agreements that we have agreed that individuals are saved in institutions but cannot live where they want to. According to this, we've been taking a big step, including... in this ideal period, through the introduction of user-controlled personal assistance. There we have accepted large laws by changes in order to introduce what is there. That service rests on the shoulders of our rural society. This is a service to be carried out by the rural communities. We guarantee them a certain amount of money, and they must be done according to law and order. However, some rural communities have contacted the Ministry and in discussions and elsewhere, which feel that the funds are missing into the system. We've been adding money to the system. We even did. recently in connection with negotiations with the communities introduced by government leaders for Covid-19. We've added to the NPA agreements, so there's an improvement in that. Is there reason to consider something in the law? Yes, there is reason to review the experiences of the NPA project, what changes we have to do there. We discussed it when those laws were passed. However, an opinion of this will not include a violation of the rights of disabled persons, as well as that, but will be considered in a way that we can better handle this, make it better, and therefore secure and expand the funds we have truly been doing in this government's time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u12	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, but he has to watch that it's a fact that people who get an MPA contract and who already sign an NPA contract are still in good condition from the office and put in a nursing home without wanting to be there. What is it? Yeah, the budget. And where does the funding come from? From the Minister or the Government. As a result, the budget is too low. And I ask myself, " At this time when there seems to be enough money to cover everything in Covid, why on earth is this sensitive group always left out? ' There's no funding in the good stuff, there's no money now. When does this money get ready? It's not time to find it, chief. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u13	A respectable president. In the case of some extraordinary cases, we have even. in this ideal period, they set up a special surveillance facility to monitor the activities of rural society in the legal and physical rights of disabled people and those of other vulnerable groups. She began working two and a half years ago. Then it's also this way, and it's right to keep it, as I did before, that we've been adding to the seminary. We've added to the NPA agreements over the past year. The amount of money that flows to the NAPA agreements has increased from the state's budget. Not only did this after a special programme set up at the beginning of the term, but it also added the council to a request from the Ministry of Social Affairs between 1 and 2. We've also been adding to our rural society through the equation fund and in negotiations made with the rural communities that were not recently introduced by Covid. There was additional funds for community service in order to improve the handling of disabled persons. [[The president calls.]] But I completely agree with it. Senator. Better is needed if we are to do so, and that is always to be kept in mind. [[The president calls.]] But it is quite unfair to say that the current government has not raised money to the suit because it has.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u14	Mr. President. I listened attentively to the talk of policy at the top. Prime Minister the other day. In her case, green steps to work construction were very prominent. I'd like to speak to the highest. This time especially about one green step, since internationalists, as we middle - class Christians, often look beyond this small country in which we live. We think of what we can do to influence climate in a larger area. Perhaps one of the best things to do in the world is that we use the renewable energy we have an abundance to create jobs, but in other places, it is fueled by worse energy sources. Well, that's the way it is, darling. Minister, that now there is one fine company, a Northern, whose home is a suspect, has already been described, not just her interest, but his will to expand the plant. The building project would produce 100 jobs and 40 well - paying future jobs. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether this has not surely come up with a discussion in her government, because as I understand the news of this case, this company is ready to go on with this project with a very shame in advance. And both are, the highest. Minister, that we can't be benefited from our duties and cannot be provided with export incomes that can be created in the months and months. So I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of this particular matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u15	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks me a report of the expansion of the Arctic Circle, which is now not on my level. It is likely on the other hand, about the cost of energy for an excellent company and about their potential for sale on its product. Because of what? A senator began his case by saying that he wanted to discuss green investments, so let me say that I've had an excellent conversation, and I've cooperated with Iceland's branches that they are increasingly going to work on being free of carbon. We have every reason to believe that in the present location, we have set very ambitious targets for greenhouse gases falling, it is important that we reduce emissions. Part of it is what we've been doing through energy exchange in transport and where it will be involved. There is a chance, though, when we are in a very good place, that because of the energy we have, we can use renewable energy in very many things other countries have not been able to do. It also matters that we bind the carbon that we release. Last year we signed a declaration of will, including together with a North wing, that we would work together on our noncarbon goals. Of course, we can, on the other hand, change in manufacturing method, and I believe this company has shown the will to do so, and on the other hand, with increased carbon binding. This may be most interesting when we discuss international climate issues. Hv. A senator was here referring to the internationally accepted class that he belongs to. So he is familiar with this discussion. We can do a lot of work and have much to do with what we've been doing here, to make up on Hellishra with a carbon binding project. I think what I have perhaps been most concerned with this company and others in the same sector is how they can actually achieve our non-carbon goals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer that disappoints me because this time I am discussing with the prime minister as the foreman of the government. That is why I am surprised when she tells me that this matter is not at her table. Now I know this belongs to the Minister of Ministers, but I'll say again: I'm talking to the highest degree. The prime minister who is pointy and the foreman of this government. That's why I must ask again if the highest. A minister will take advantage of this matter in a government field. I'd also like to put in information, I know it's the best. Minister knows for sure, that there is a new development in Iceland in a staff that Jón Hjaltalín Magnússon has been in charge and will now need assistance in developing rather than promising. I think that knowledge, as well as the energy we have prepared, it's all set up on Tanga, means that we're now at the highest level. Minister will take it to a government conference and take advantage of decisions on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator once again, but he specifically said in the beginning that he wanted to discuss a green employment policy. I would like to point out that green policy is not necessarily about moving aluminium to produce it, with certainly renewable energy, because the cost of transport is considerable. Then we've been working it out. These are good workplaces here, I reiterate it, but I can only hear that the Central Party believes that with this, Iceland is going to solve the world's climate problems. Of course not. I think our worlds are much more ambitious than that, because they've just declared their will and thought of it as a special meeting, very successful, to go to a carbon sharelessness, and that was what I did as a publicity material. Then I'd like to say, I think there's a lot of parishes, like a cool one. A senator mentioned earlier, with the particular company he referred to and with other companies in this area, in order to increase the level of value and to further reduce emissions. I will, of course, support all such efforts, for this is one of the principal objectives of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u18	Mr. President. There is a big story in the government's list of matters she's going to put in for winter, but the story is actually not in the government list. 16 months ago, I and 15 other members of the United Nations agreed to legalize a United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. Unlike most members of Congress, this case was adopted and the government was assigned to prepare the legal process. In addition, the government was to put up a bill at the General Assembly that involved the legalization of the contract and to adjust it later on December 13, 2020. It's only been two months. However, there is no such bill on the government case record. Why not, chief? Prime Minister? The will of the council is clear, and ministers are to enforce the will of the council. They're executive agents. Ministers cannot choose and refuse the council's smell when it is convenient. Mr. President. How is it that this case of everyone, a case that would translate into an enormous act of justice for disabled people in Iceland, should be brought to nothing? The truth was, when I read the government lawsuit, I didn't even have my own eyes. With the legalization, Iceland would be one of the first countries in the world to legalize this international agreement. It's not often we can say it in this room. Mr. President. The General has decided to take this step. But why not the government? Where's the bill, chief? Prime Minister? This is not simply a mistake of the highest degree. Prime Minister will correct matters right here and now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u19	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing this up. I certainly remember this conjugal attitude. A senator joined others and was approved. It's the Ministry of Justice that's going to handle the case, so I'm sorry, I can't give you any satisfying explanation for it other than the ones I know it took time. This has been discussed at the government scene. I know it's taken time, because it's quite complicated. Whether a pandemic has been a problem for the project, I don't know how to explain it, but I know someone has been working. I'll see if we can expect a bill like that at this council, because I really have no clear explanation why this is not on Congress. I don't quite know it. I just have to admit it here. But I'll be happy to take it up with the Minister of Justice and find out where the work is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u20	Mr. President. Yeah, I appreciate the response. Prime Minister. It is interesting that this conversation was discussed, yet it did not enter the Constitution. Prime Minister is responsible for the Constitution of the government. It was the government that got this part, and that's why I directed the inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister. However, I also wanted to take up this matter with the Supreme Minister of the Government, which is also the prime minister who regularly reports the conduct of the council arrangement. I just reiterate my request that this be the church's honour. We have agreed that this contract should be legalized. It's not a choice. It may be complicated, but we do it anyway. The poorer of this country has waited a long time for human reforms, and it is by no means in my mind to have them wait for legal reforms. I'm gonna take the highest. A president of the word, expecting that it will exercise all its power, and it will come here a bill, as every senator agreed to commit a government to do. It was even set time, December 13, but obviously it won't pass. [[The president calls.]] Let's just get out of this together, hang out on this. This could be one of the important things that the government has to offer, and we all could be really proud of if we finish it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u21	Mr. President. True, Prime Minister is the Director of the Government, but ministers, of course, organize their Constitution according to their status. Because of what? A member regularly mentions a report by the prime minister on the implementation of the council rules, only the same is that it applies not just now, but many years back in time, that there has often been a considerable failure in the way the synonyms are being carried out. I know it myself. I've been following a synopsis of the freedom of information and expression which was approved here by much, often called the IMMI smell in everyday speech. We are still working to reach its full potential ten years later. Even if it works, it has slowed down. But I accept a challenge. A senator will discuss this with the Minister of Justice and see what the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u22	Mr. President. In this ideal period, the problem of disability has often arose, and the government truly was trying to take steps to improve the interests of this large and diverse group. Many things have been done, and in part the decline has been reduced, but better if sufficient. V.E.G. Minister knows as much as I do about them. Four billion who were designed to establish a budget of 2017/2021, if I recall correctly, per year, have not been set aside 1.1 billion. Therefore, I would like to direct that inquiry to the highest level. Minister: When will this money get to those needing it? Is it not unacceptable that these funds have remained passive all this time without doing the best they really need? Is it not time for the Ministry to tell a council and a nation what they have planned for this money? These are considerable amounts of money, especially when we consider that we are talking about a group of Icelanders who have little to play. There is good reason for the minister to be clear in response when to bring this money to those in need and who to get the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Just as he traced his query, there were 4 billion earmarks marked by attacking system changes and implementing a specific professional assessment, in combination with certain system changes in the social security system. It has not worked as planned and has not achieved agreements, either at the labour market or among stakeholders. We were going to take specific steps and were 2.9 billion of these 4 billion used to produce certain changes that would make them possible to speak to a new system when appropriate. The remaining 1.1 billion, i.e. to encourage workforce participation and reduce loss, etc. When a Parliamentary Constitution was released recently, the person here made a decision that would not be possible to attack these major changes in election winter, but we are going to take some smaller steps to use this 1.1 billion provision in the current year and the next year, if the International Assembly of Iceland approves a financial bill as it is before the council. Within the Ministry and in contact with other people, there have been suggestions on how to apply this 1,1 billion. The suggestions were presented to me last week, so I expect that we will do them a little better this week and possibly during the next week, and then they can be introduced publicly and hopefully come to those who truly need them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. As I mentioned in my first talk, we are discussing a very diverse group. It is varied, economic and functional, and reliable in other ways. That is why, especially in view of the fact that we have not given this money to where they should be working, to the highest. A minister needs to answer if he feels that the money is to be taken into account in the case of the poor, i.e. that we don't take this across the entire line. instead, we'd rather focus on the most critical groups. I'm not at the top of it. The minister is to move and be accepted here at the council in a similar way when payment for the elderly with restricted rights was adopted last spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u25	A respectable president. This is one of the factors that have been examined. We've been putting together specific suggestions and ideas about what could be used for this money. But when we have 1.1 billion for provision where the budget for the seminary does not reach a high percentage of the total altitude that runs into the languages of disabled persons and to the topic field of disability, there a certain point of view will be achieved. It is also the other viewpoints that were behind this budget at the time, which was reducing the decline and promoting increased employment participation, represented by the people of Stockholm, who spoke here, in fact in connection with another, has given great emphasis. Then these views are addressed because many times it is those who are in poor condition who have no chance of pursuing any extra income. I figure we'll try to break down on both of these, that these funds will be taken into account both the whole group and that some groups will be set up at the lowest rate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u26	A meeting is a meeting arrangement for the discussion, and there has been a session divided among members of the assembly. Those answers are not allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u27	Mr. President. I thank you for having this opportunity to account for the opinions of a panel on the rights of a disease - control clinic and for the Precautions of Disease Control. I think that this spring we've all shared the agreement that we were hoping the epidemic would be short and we'd get over it pretty fast. But it is certainly not finished, and we can see it at today's numbers, where 1,234 is in isolation through infection, and the incidence of domestic infections is now 2,877. I'll say this spring we didn't see how much effect this epidemic would have and how long it would be. However, when it became clear last August that this fight was not nearly finished and that we might have to contend with the virus until the next year, the government considered it proper to have a legal opinion on government authority in this area. Clearly, there have been some measures that would impair people's freedom, and the thought of getting the best sense of the limits was their own. In an appeal to Judge Páll, the Hreinsson of Purge, dated August 27, we read: The Minister of Disease Control, in agreement with the Health Minister and the Government, wishes here to agree that you will agree on the authority of a surgeon and a health minister to the official Precaution of Disease Control under contracts, on the basis of documented and unscheduled principles of administrative and human rights regulations in the Constitutions and on the international agreements. It will also take into account the interaction with the authority of the police and other authorities in order to implement such measures. Do they want you to make original laws or rules to change what you consider a cause? The report, published on September 25 of September 20, shows that many of the preventive measures inevitably limit human rights protected by a constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights. The same value for individual and enterprise rights under the EEA Convention. On the other hand, on the rights of the rights they can always be removed for the sake of the greater good in defending the epidemics for the protection of human life and their health. These interests are very important when dealing with epidemics in which human life and health threatens a direct and predictable threat. The more contagious and more dangerous the disease is, therefore, the government has more resources to deal with for the protection of human life and health. In this regard it must also be kept in mind that governments have not only the authority to take action in such situations but also the clear initiative to deal with epidemics with active measures to protect lives and human health. This will be discussed on page 43 of the report that says: ▪ When it comes to social problems, both ministers and the Council have a obligation to respond. In view of the duties of governments, we must protect the lives and health of people in the face of epidemics, it must be assumed that courts will determine whether there have been too harsh or too severe arbitrarily used by governmental authorities. It may therefore be concluded that governments have considerable scope to assess how to deal with such an epidemic without the obligation to the government discussed in the report to start first with a weaker plan in which it will not be predicted what will best be used to achieve the target. Ella's life is a danger to public health. The extent to which governments are declared in these circumstances depends, including of what time governments have to gather information about the situation and the expected impact of the action to take, both on the effectiveness of fighting the epidemic but also on the harm they may cause. It must be taken into account that Covid-19 is a new infectious disease. It has been studied only for less than one year, and its knowledge is very limited. Thus, there is some uncertainty about the death rate caused by him, as well as what diseases can follow as well as the lasting damage that some patients seem to suffer from this disease and are intended to experience, but we hear all the reports. More important, the effectiveness of individual disinfectants is often very uncertain when it is decided to use them. However, as the battle continues, demands must be increased that governments further investigate and supply information on the activities of measures taken to prevent the epidemic and to increase the information about the damage caused by such measures. In view of such information, measures should be made to become more targeted and more selective on the particular situation. V.E.G. A health minister will speak below, but Páll points out a number of aspects that need to be reviewed in the treatment of disease, and I know that this will be considered in more detail. Among the things he mentioned is that in the treatment of disease laws, there are no legal explanations of the main terms of the law. It is important to conform to the wording used in antiseptic laws with our daily language format here on the country. For example, the law speaks of "anxieties, " but it speaks of addiction in the everyday language. Similarly, Páll makes a note of the fact that a disease - control doctor and a disease - control doctor are assigned some of the same tasks that need to be explained. Furthermore, it would be desirable to enumerate what preventative measures they may be allowed by a minister to employ and provide a legal explanation. Here is where the order of the definitions and definitions of the World Health Organization must be established. In addition, there is a need to consider that not all general measures of disease prevention according to the World Health Organization have been implemented in Iceland and that is particularly relevant to the regulations of the Regulation that have concern with the general regulations for the introduction and departure of tourists. Reason is for provision 14. the risk of spread of infection by individuals is unconvinced that it takes both infected and those who claim to be infected. Of course, this is difficult in today's affected epidemic, since individuals may be asymptomatic or asymptomatic but still infectious. These decisions are made on the basis of the reports by health care professionals, but they also need to be able to refer to cross-infections. In view of the fact that a person's addiction includes a loss of freedom, the legal requirements of the disease must be changed so that legal matters will also be carried out under local law, as expected in isolation. Furthermore, the combination of disinfectants with law No. 80/2016, about foreigners, including In terms of the introduction of the European Parliament's Directive and the Council of the rights of the European Union's citizens and their candidates for free passage and residence in the territory of the Member States, as well as the authority to have restrictions under court and authority to perform medical investigations on those who have come to the country on the basis of the EEA Convention and to stay on the land for less than three months. Then there is a warrant for taking a service fees specifically tore up the report. The treatment code is too open. The Ministry of Health has responded and referred to laws on health insurance that I expect at the highest level. Head over here with a health minister. According to the Ministry of Health, there has been a measure of legal status in 29 C.E. track No. 112/2008, although it may be debated the details of the provision of disease control laws. Then, of course, it is important to keep it in place that when a DP surgeon suggested that the sample would not be chosen, i.e. that it would not be an option to choose rather a 14 - day tab, it was still a minister's decision to keep that option in exactly because of the rules. I'd like to say, too, because this report has been discussed, and in particular, her discussion of the introduction of the World Health Organization, that there is now a task being done for the publication of national rights. That has even been true. During a public discussion that there is a significant discrepancy, and that is correct. It's 12 years old, what can we say, a palace to be worked on. As a result, the government decided to spend 12 million this year making up the range of proposals for foreign ministers and prime ministers. It's begun to work on contracts and ads and contracts in the C department and contracts and advertisements since the past three years are being prepared for ministers to sign. This is how it will take place from 2019, 2018, and 2017 in the following weeks, and then it will be continued. Of course, it's important that this is in good order. Finally, I'd like to say this here, because my time is short, that I think it's important that the Council has this discussion on the rights of the disease laws that are, of course, more discussed now that the epidemic is over at its beginning. Forethought is the full reexamination of disinfectants that I know to the highest. A health minister has decided to hurry because of the indications found in Páll's letter to the Hreinsson son of God. It is important that we use experience in the struggle with the present pandemic in order to improve it in an adequate way. However, I cannot help but say that when the government's actions are compared with the actions of governments around us, I believe that this has been done more moderately than in most parts of the continent, guided by society's interests. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I give a particular witness, and I have repeatedly said that this has been an emphasis on maintaining a normal life, especially in school. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u28	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. Prime Minister for this discussion today on the rights of a disinfectant and a health care minister for official disease prevention measures. I would especially like to discuss the situation that has existed regarding the various civil rights in this matter. For months the government has been criticized for taking out all the things that can bring out criticism, mainly to the officials we in everyday speech call tridents. The government's retreat from responsibility was so determined that a psychiatrist had to call in particular for government and politics to come to the table on what other measures were involved because of the pandemic. It's been almost three months. As indicated in Páll's work Hreinsson son, this report is based on a letter written by a prime minister that says, with the permission of a president: The Minister of Ministers in consultation with the Health Minister and the Government wishes here, with the request that you agree on the SEC and the Precautions of Disease Control and Health Ministers to the official Precautions according to the SEC... This text is written six months after the onset of the first transmission, so there is empathy in the view that governments are criticized for late making decisions on these matters. A respectable president. There is no question about it: The effects of disease prevention are immense. An entire industry is now fighting for its life, and many others are hit by a massive blow. The community can be viewed as one huge control board with a thousand measures, and during the past few months, one factor has been focused on, i.e. The Covid-19 statistics, but the count of others and the importance of the dead is between parts. There is a situation that cannot be enjoyed. A number of factors are highlighted in Páll's work of Hreinsson - hearted sons, which underscores the fact that there is much in the treatment of disease - control laws that are controversial whether the procedure has been prepared. That, of course, is the highest view. A minister came to this point, and he has come to the point of shooting up a higher government decision, and there is a view that it is not permitted directly under current disease control laws to keep uninfected persons under disease control. There are also factors such as the fact that the Schngeren Convention has been made a meaningless document in Europe, with the exception that the Icelandic state will accept candidates for international protection as never before. We should not forget that many everyday activities carry risks. This risk is weighed against the benefits of each ceremony. The point I want to leave here is that we keep in mind that one way or another, we take a risk check every day. When we appreciate the effect of decisions, we need to watch a bigger image than just Covid statistics. We have to look at the overall impact on society and the economy. If decisions lead to more economic hardships than could be survived, then we are offering long - term health sacrifices. This can be done both by a government fund to live under the welfare system and by other aspects of the welfare system that are likely to get sick if too far out of control. Sadly, the preventative measures taken are most intense on young people. Young people's studies have been put at risk by the restrictions on school and their future living. Yet, it is clear that the epidemic does not pose the greatest threat to young people. In fact, it seems far away. Despite the fact that the risks of daily life always exist, irreprehensible policy is not encouraged. Dentist experts are good as such, but in the end they are democratically elected authorities, who must make informed decisions after everything has been taken into account - everything, not just a matter of purpose. More important, prolonged recession will inevitably occur sooner or later in worsening health and deterioration of health systems at the same time. Politicians need to take a deeper discussion of where to go and how to get there. We do not deserve to be held accountable for these matters, and it is beneath the fact that major decisions are made for months without any material discussion. Various civil rights are being pushed aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u29	Mr. President. It is not unusual for people to wonder how hard restrictions are, even permissible, in view of the fact that many people are badly affected. It is no wonder that some people have difficulty swallowing the operations and doubt that they are based on an average method of action. However, in this context, it should be noted that less measures, or inactions, against such a severe epidemic could be affected and more severe than current measures. Thus, it is impossible to conclude that moderate behavior is more safe, that governments prefer to hold hands and use much less weapons. This is simply a very complex subject: How far, indeed, is it justified in cutting down our freedoms by means of countercommunications? Or possibly.: When are measures that are mild enough to result in more freedom reduction? In fact, even on a normal year - long journey, all of our daily lives are under reduced freedom of movement, even though it is usually so insignificant and commonplace that we have long stopped paying attention to it. The red thread is that the burdensome bans and restrictions are intended to protect the whole, making sure that the freedom of action alone will not go on the freedom of others. It is also true of the proposals of the European Commission in this war that governments have blessed with the greatest efforts of government. It has been achieved to keep basic schools open, which are extremely important to children's health, to keep health institutions going, which are clearly the underlying targets of disease control, and to minimise deaths, although, indeed, the limitations are somewhat healthy on our rights to daily life. Yet, some sectoral activities, along with individuals, have been severely affected by economic losses from disease prevention, and as a result, governments must have a very rich obligation to do all they can to improve or to at least minimize that damage, and I don't think it's done enough. How serious it is when thousands of families are removed from much of their livelihood for a long time because of government action, even when necessary! These people have made commitments and measures based on legitimate expectations of pay that are no longer present. It does not take a vivid imagination to see what these families will be able to do in the next few months if nothing more is done for them. It is also good to remember that there is a correlation between the lack of economic benefits and the immaterial. The financial cost of poverty, spiritual distress, and social problems can be a source of relief if we do not take more support. Hence, all the philosophical speculations made by the secretary on the amount of unemployment gains will kindly discourage people to work until the pandemic is over. How much closer it would be for governments to take responsibility for these disease prevention measures and to raise basic inefficiency! Mr. President. It is also necessary for the public and individual senators to maintain honest criticism and to display restraint, and I feel that governments are on a high level when it comes to looking up the city's credit card records. I also feel that there is no ambiguity in the ban on visits to sick and disabled persons, especially in those cases where the person has little or no chance to understand why the ban is happening. As a result, patients may fail beyond cause and spouses and loved ones are left to mourn and with guilt. In general, though, I have understanding and compassion for the strategy that the CDC has chosen for every time during the past six months, and law-enforcement people will simply have to decide whether or not all the measures are within the warrant. But it is proper to remind us that we are fighting differences and policy from government officials is based on the use of a number of different measures at the same time that can be set up and put together in countless ways. Their influence on the economy and on our overall quality of life makes the situation even more complex. In this light, we must judge the actions of a disease - control authority. After all, I am still convinced that our people have been quite successful in their work and, fortunately, are being added daily to experiences, new knowledge, and calculators, so I am pretty confident that with it in the armory, we will eventually be able to defeat this disgusting, invisible creature.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u30	Mr. President. I thank you for the opportunity to participate in this discussion today and thank you very much. Prime Minister for the general report. As we have seen in other debates. Of course, the members of the council here before me have the need to discuss this aspect of affairs as we have experienced the passing of the time we have with the virus. Both the need and the occasion may be richer today than it was in our time. The report on this subject, Páll's view of the son of Hreinsson, is very helpful in the discussion. It is useful as a basis for a discussion that we can then continue with. As noted earlier, a writer, Páll Hreinsson, warns that he is not dealing with the legality of individual action taken in the past few months. Of course, courts are assigned to determine whether they were all within their boundaries. On the other hand, it is based on the general theory of justice and the rights that must be tested and that is, I think, important for us to take the next steps and make the next decisions. I wanted to first say that in these matters, we are in a different position today, but we were when the virus first appeared in the middle of the year. Of course, it is true that many things are still uncertain about the virus and its spread, but we know much more today than we did in February or March. Similarly, we have had the opportunity to observe the results of specific measures taken during this period. We simply know more today than we knew seven, eight months ago, although there are certainly a number of factors in the virus, its spread, its operation, and its impact. Our present - day situation is thus quite different from that of February, March. That means even. Based on the various regulations of the administration and administration rights, a greater requirement can be made for the decision taken today than can be taken for about seven, eight months ago, i.e. If decisions made today are considered, stricter requirements can be made than for decisions taken at the beginning of the pandemic. Let us keep this in mind. This means that governments, us at the council, the government and other public authority in this regard can be expected to make decisions, what to say, with more careful planning and more planning than could be expected when the epidemic was starting. This is important when we consider individual activities and the whole process. It matters when we consider how we can adapt various principles of the administrative and administrative rights to making decisions in this relationship. This may include the principle of legality, which includes the fact that for public, burdensome decisions to be clear and clear not only brought about by some correction but also a clear improvement, and then that the standards of the moderate rules are laid on individual decisions, whether they appear in regulations or individual decisions made on the basis of Regulation. I'm not going to say so to many people, but it's clear that Hreinsson's report, the main point of view, which is the main context. Of course, epidemics and their reactions are permitted to take action that would not be considered authorized under normal circumstances. It is in the Constitution of both the registered and the unsolved regulations of the administration and the administrative rights that a situation caused by epidemic or epidemic may require action where testing is carried out and even being turned aside by civil rights, freedom rights, which we normally consider to be voluntary. There's no difference. There is no disagreement that these fundamental civil rights are protected in the Constitution, and under the principles of the legal court, they are protected by rights, but they can be cut off when dealing with the conditions we have been dealing with. However, this means that when rights are impaired on the basis of laws and other laws of the government that are legally established, the need to be careful not to go beyond what is necessary on a case by case basis. Then, as Páll the son of Hreinsson is well versed in his text, certain standards that need to be addressed. It is not possible to say that the atom is one or absolute or that one can reliably predict how each event would be evaluated. If a court case were to appear, it would be determined by circumstances, what information was there, etc. In this regard, however, there must always be some kind of food. What do I mean by that? I mean, there's not enough to say: here's a serious situation and that means you can do anything. Of course not. The action taken at each point must really be meant to achieve the desired goal. If you can choose different options, choose the mildest and third measures that will help you, once your options have been selected, be careful not to apply them more harshly or in a more burdensome way than is necessary. These are specific guidelines on how to evaluate such things. This calls for action on such activities. As Páll Hreinsson points out in his text, it is reasonable that when decisions are made in doubt, there is not everything in this matter, so there must be a measure of freedom for governments in these matters. The greater the uncertainty, the greater the scope. There is no doubt about it. But that does not mean that food does not have to take place. The evaluation must take place when making decisions based on the available or available data. This is what I wanted to emphasize in this relationship. The principles that we base not only our administration but also our administration in these matters apply during difficult times but at the usual times. It is not that difficult times make it possible for us to unplug our precautions. You can't think of it that way. In effect, the more serious the situation is, the more important it is to be aware of the precautions and take care of in this regard. That's what I'm happy to say, because it's only about a review of the CDC. I feel that in Páll's words to the Hreinsson of Purge, there are indications that need to be taken into consideration in this regard. I also rejoice that there should be a relatively rapid work to review the most important features in this relationship because, as I have previously shown, I believe that this may be a weakness in some of the measures taken. I've pointed it out at a meeting both the Board of Directors and Control Committee and, actually, in an article I wrote in the Morning newspaper two months ago. This may need to be adjusted and corrected quickly. It doesn't mean that, in my opinion, waiting for the global re-examination of the disinfectant laws, it is important to make a quick recovery from the factors in which individual taxation measures may be ill, as it seems to be. I leave this talk to you but rejoice that you will have the opportunity to discuss this and hope that we will have further opportunities to discuss these matters in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u31	President. Civil rights protection is never more important than fear of people. Then it is ready to sacrifice its rights. People are rightly afraid. In the balance of life and health, there are also other human rights and the freedom of people, freedom of movement, freedom of movement, freedom to work, as it were in the opinion of Páll the son of Hreinsson, whom we are here. As Pirati, I would like to first point out that in our core policy, we must protect and promote civil rights, increase the access of the public to decisions he makes, and work together in the way that we make informed decisions, based on criticism. The preventive measures affect all of us and turn aside from important rights. A positive approach to matters like this is that informed discussion is both the basis for successful disease prevention and the protection of civil rights at the time of the virus. The most important thing I would like to point out in this light, in this opinion, is the principle that citizens can do anything that isn't forbidden by law but governments can monopolize citizens with a government decision if it is based on a reputed legal authority and is under law. This is fundamental. Human rights are in the balance of life, health, other human rights, freedom. So I say again in English, people can do whatever they want as long as there's no law against them. If the government, the executives, the Ministers, the CDC, intends to do something that limits people's rights, they must be authorized by the law and comply with the law to enforce it. As noted in the ratings, a government that impairs the freedom or human rights of the citizens taking place in the interests of today's most important public interest needs to weigh on the performance of the public interests, in this case life and health that recommend the impairment, against the interests of the impairment. It is human rights, freedom, and wealth. The human rights, in turn, can have a negative effect on people's lives and health. This picture is not clear yet. I believe it is necessary for continued confidence in the current action that this picture will be made clearer and more accessible to the public. We saw at the beginning of the epidemic what we saw as to what the situation was, how the epidemic developed, how it affected people's lives, how many were introduced, etc. They created trust and rightly so. I think there is a basis for confidence that this overall picture of what is in the balance of our rights, our lives, our health, our other human rights, our freedom, our financial resources, is clear and accessible to the public. We're more than six months involved in the epidemic and possibly in a year, maybe less than a year. A key to success is trust. The public needs to be well informed about their rights and the evidence that the government has to do with them, as I mentioned. Government officials need to be careful and do not go beyond their wide range of sources of inadequacy. Decisions are always made when decisions are made quickly, understandable, so authorities need to act quickly and effectively in the indications of offenders by informed discussion. The prime minister has made this point, which is very good and necessary, and the tribunal has called for more informed discussions, including some. in an article in the newspaper on Thursday that it is important that different viewpoints be pondered when there are restrictions on civil rights. They mention that the excommunication of critics is merely a failure to divide the precious unity we need in these unique and difficult times. Enlightenment is both the basis for successful consultation and the basis for protecting civil rights in these times. Governments other than the CDC need to be careful with the counterweight measures to reduce the damage caused by disease prevention measures, e.g. on human health, mental health, etc. Everything must be in the picture, and there must be a support under this holistic image that I'm asking about the rights we're sacrificing for others. The CDC must be fixed immediately by the General Assembly. Law permissions are not clear enough, we've heard it from a lot of experts, including Páll the Hreinsson of Purge, and the Allied must take care of their active and grammatical surveillance of the Commission. It is the Constitutional duty of members of Congress, members of Congress, members of Congress, and members of the General Assembly. I repeat the principle that I would have as a basis for this opinion, the basis for what we're looking at because we're doing all of this together, that citizens can do whatever they want as long as it's not under law, but the government can only limit their rights if they have the authority to do it by law and it's under law. At that time, governments must obey rigid laws regarding good government. They need to be careful of legitimateness, rightfulness, equality, and moderation. I'm going to go deeper into the part of a second talk, but I've considered one of the factors: for the sake of greater public interest, the freedom and human rights of the citizens must be weighed against the public interests that recommend the degree of impairment, life and health of others who are sacrificed. There's human rights, freedom, people's financial resources. I believe that only if that principle is applied, and we see that it is followed, we feel that it is followed, we can create the trust we need to go through this epidemic and out of it. I come in a deeper approach to this principle that the government must apply in order to impair the rights of a future speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u32	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss Páll's Hreinsson of view regarding the authority of a disease - control doctor and health minister to the public health officials. In view of the written and unsolved principles of administrative rights and human rights regulations in the constitution and international agreements, this group is made upon the request of the prime minister who asked for it to be compiled. They wanted the highest. The prime minister also after the creation of a prime minister would be proposed to change the law or the rules, as the author felt it would be. The foreword of the group's opinion shows that there is a theoretical discussion of the mechanism of action of disinfectants in light of the administrative and administrative rights. The author says that this is not a complete assessment, since the time for work was short. A general consideration of some key factors is given when making decisions about government protection measures. I want to use this opportunity to thank Dr. Páll the Hreinsson of Cleansson for his good work on this most important input and highest level of knowledge. Prime Minister for starting this, and now to the council. The issue we now discuss is probably the biggest case of our day. It affects everyone in some way, not just indirectly, but directly. All of us have had to adjust to adjustments in our ways, absorbing things that were not part of our daily life, such as watching distances, more frequent washing of hands, alcohol, and masking. We are living in a reality that appeared to be temporary by the end of the winter, but it can be said to be permanent, or until further notice, as human tiredness and higher criticism are now heard than at the beginning of the pandemic. This is perfectly normal, since long - standing decreases in freedom for everyday activities are taking place. In fact, the authorities have called for a discussion, especially a disease - control doctor who has never claimed that he always knows everything in the new population of the virus. Now the debate has entered the council. Some find that to be hoped - for later. There are a number of benefits and concerns, such as whether the decision - making process had not been made by others and before. Is there enough information for a government stand? They don't say. Can others call for a table, and then I mean a representative of the various groups and professions, or was it too twisted? The democracy is reversed, but it should be so too. Much publicity has been done in the media, in print, and in Internet worlds. Within a few weeks, we have learned much about a new enemy coming from outside. And it's a challenge to handle matters from the inside. We are facing a threat that we have not talked about until now, natural. There hasn't been any reason. On the other hand, we have discussed threats that result from terrorism and other attacks, most of the things visible to the naked. Therefore, it is important to discuss the conditions we now live in and study this concept. First, I have to say that according to it, in the vast majority of cases, we are within the source code of Disease Control. Malformations have been observed, which can be corrected. Next thing I have to say, it is, and it was wise to base decisions on science, to rely on our best people, to listen to it, to follow its advice. No popular talk or feelings should be given to such a big deal. Another factor that has been clarified is that the domain of the disease - control authorities is more than that of many of us. The Disease Prevention Act identifies the role of a disease - care professional, including a health care professional, as well as a health care professional. planning and harmonizing the disease prevention and immunisation throughout the country, including with a version of the guide on the response to epidemics. This role is an interpretation factor, as the applicant's physician does not have the authority to set regulations and measure official protection measures, according to the opinion of the organisation. Therefore, his response needs to take into account the regulations and other relevant legal requirements for the risk management of disease prevention at any given time, but it is up to the secretary's authority to implement official control measures. Prior to the implementation of a health care professional's regulations for official disease control measures, the prescriber must be legalised by written and consistent suggestions on such measures. Similarly, the surgeon general's office operates a disease - control doctor who is responsible for the treatment of disease control. He should have knowledge of infectious diseases and their epidemiology. As a result, the proposal of a disinfectant should be based on established medical knowledge about infectious diseases and their epidemiology. In this way we demand that every time we are based on the latest knowledge. Looks like it's been working out for me. Our fine trinkets have been excellently watched, well prepared, and upbuilding. Never have they pretended to know everything, for it can't be done. However, decisions have been based on the best knowledge at any given time. We are in a learning process, and it is important to listen as soon as decisions are made, often on a complex foundation. Now that all of us know more, it is proper for the Council to adopt and consider changes that will improve and strengthen the treatment laws. Don't forget the surveillance role of the counsellor who must be as important now as ever. By the administration and monitoring committee, experts have arrived. According to them, the role of the Generals is to establish general rules regarding the situation as they arise, enabling governments to respond as necessary. It seems that governments are caring for their duty to protect the lives and health of their citizens. That is an important foundation that we can agree on the need to consider in the future and how we deal with it. When it comes to the evaluation of authority on public resources, the individual rights and the rights of citizens must be weighed together as well as the initiative of the government to cope with epidemics and disasters. How far can we go? We do not agree, but it is important to take a moderate measure of action when deciding how to prevent disease prevention. In view of this, it is important that all decisions be based on the best knowledge each time. Therefore, it is the authority's duty to change the measures as knowledge of the disease increases and the effectiveness of measures. Research requires that the competent authorities evaluate as much information as knowledge about the disease, the effects of existing infectious measures, and the potential effects and damage to the regulation procedures. Therefore, adjustments in measures may need to be made. It is difficult to set laws, and really not possible, which describe everything to the skin. Governments must be able to react rapidly. When preventative measures change because of experience and knowledge, they need to be reasoned. There are measures at any given time that depend on information. A decision must be made, not to go beyond what is needed, including a moderate order, a constant evaluation of whether to use small measures to protect public health according to local circumstances, as governments have the responsibility to protect the health of the common people. V.E.G. President. It has been observed that the use of disease is closer to being a limit of freedom than a decline of rights, as some claim. There is clearly a difference between the environment and isolation. True, anxiety is limited, but in no way burdensome in the way it is in isolation. I think we can take a closer look. We always come to a moderate degree. The right goals need to be there, and the legal authority is there in the treatment laws. Granted, the legal requirements for preventing disease are better defined today when we have been tested in these materials for the first time in the republican season. The rule has such a warning and its application in this relationship is based on a comparable situation. In view of circumstances, it may be necessary to place more limitations on one group than on another. These include rural areas where severe infections have occurred. If we all work for the same goal, we get results, the highest. President. There has been an analysis of the value of some of the suggestions that have been used in all this process. They don't have the same principles as regulations. I consider a good recommendation to appeal to people's conscience so that each person can shoulder his or her responsibilities in accordance with the circumstances. True, much power has been clearly evident. Many have felt unsure of what is right and what is not. However, more severe directions may not always be better. I believe that our cooperation with all of us will simply bring us the best results, as is clearly stated in the Eels' Sports Center, where kindness and kindness are reminded of the order of two meters. Success is achieved if we do our best to follow recommendations and rules but do not look for possible holes, inconsistencies, or innuendo in guidelines and regulations. Any comment on a loss of respect for hard rules makes me feel very farfetched and directly opposed to a vision of a person having faith in cooperation with the solution of urgent solutions. V.E.G. President. As previously noted, the Lawgiver's role is to set general standards. In view of their individual circumstances, it is the role of the government to implement them. It would be very indistinct if the lawgiver had to come up with an assessment of the instructions each time. After nine months of experience with the applied disinfectants, it would be helpful for the lawgiver to better explain the measures needed to prevent the disease. It may not be said that something is lacking in the law, but it may be clearer. So I'd like to celebrate the ultimate purpose. I hope that this work will be started as soon as possible because we have seen things that can be handled better. However, it is also important that the legislator of the Council employs his surveillance role by observing the implementation of the PAD, since the administration and monitoring committee has taken care of the situation, and it would not be surprising that the U.S. Marshal would have carried out the procedure at some point. This will no doubt test the European Court of Human Rights after this. Because the requirement for limitation of human rights based on written laws is considered more strict here than elsewhere. First, we need court releases at home. There's some time for this case to get there, at least Ten years to bail. Job freedom is not protected, it may be possible to demonstrate loss of property rights. Some have seen the future of lawyers, and it will be revealed. True, it has been observed that in some cases governments may go further in recommendations and regulations than the law permits. My understanding is not that. Governments have walked forward with the entire family's interests under control and have carried out their duty to protect the lives and health of its citizens. On the other hand, many now face a very difficult situation. Unemployment is high, and we will see the aftereffects that we will expect to achieve in due time. We are not in any position to predict what the situation will be in a few months or years, any more than we could imagine the situation today or in March. There are many things we will learn, many things that we will learn, and take a closer look. V.E.G. President. We have been told about solidarity and its importance in today's situation. There is no one alone in this struggle, and as in the past, we often prove to be stronger when we stand together and are aware of where we are going. A position is something powerful, but solidarity does not mean that we need to agree on everything. To listen to different viewpoints and to realize that we are all different, we must set aside time and space. But there are times when we need to act quickly. Then we must not lose sight of our objective, for it is important for all of us to protect and care for our vulnerable groups. While we will continue to disagree about how far we should go in various activities, all of us know that what we do is important to each one of us. Now our endurance and endurance are put to the test. It's a common way of handling the project. You see, I believe everyone is doing their best at any given time, and it's not gonna be better. However, that does not say that I am free of anxiety over the situation. There are certain groups that I am deeply concerned about. I'm worried about our young men, most of whom are studying far away. It's not for everyone. It's reversed. It's hard to deal with. They don't get to experience what we're doing here in this room, for example. experience at the beginning of high school and at the end of high school. It may not be the most dangerous thing in life, but it may be dangerous when social, communication, and so forth. That is why it is of utmost importance that we all take steps and complete this assignment. What each person does matters. We know much better now, and we'll get back together later and talk things over again. In time, we will see the big picture, and there will be truly a lesson we can learn from all of this. I'd like to thank you for this discussion, for an informed discussion is always good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u33	A respectable president. Our first steps as a nation in this awesome task we've had in the past month were marked by a beautiful solidarity and fellow feeling. The guide was that the project was all of us, and I allow myself to say that as a nation, we stood together as one. At first, the challenge of the pandemic was natural, this big project, to protect not just life but the health of a nation. Next came the economic shock that we see today that is proving to be our deepest crisis for a century. We also experience serious social consequences that may be prolonged as the epidemic continues to spread. I'd especially like to mention young people and our oldest citizens. These are historic times, and at the beginning, I would like to be allowed to thank the Disease Controllers, thank the infectious team, and all those who are now engaged in this work as a result of the epidemic. I certainly do. The restoration has supported and will continue to support the actions of the government that can lead the people of the country, homes, and businesses out of these difficult situations. We have made it clear that now and now we must take big steps immediately. President. It is unmistakably clear that there are urgent public interest issues behind the treatment measures, and governments have any opportunity to determine which resources should be administered at any given time. Government regulations have been made in a continuous review that is in my mind toward their willingness not to go beyond the need and at the same time a sign of respect for average honor. It feels like I'm reading out of these efforts, trying to tighten and soften the action as the wind goes. The legislatator can't get involved in any particular action there, which is not the role of the council. The Lawgiver, however, is being monitored. In this crisis, I'm afraid there is reason to criticize the government's procedure. Never is it more important that the Council is made available to carry out its role, but in a crisislike state, such as what we are facing today. To say so, of course, these matters have been discussed here at the Assembly Hall, which has been the least due to the opposition. It has to be said that the government has not accepted its responsibility in this regard. The board has shown little initiative in talking to the council, and the bus has been pulled from the officials. Perhaps it was more comfortable than normal. And as it is the direct obligation of the government today to intervene in a crisis to protect the interests of the collective, it is not merely the universal court but the obligation to take control of its role with the government. Two things I would like to mention in this situation. First, why is the government's bill on new disease prevention laws not higher than that? Now that we have experience, it is both timely and necessary to better define the role of the competent authority on the other hand and the role of a minister who makes it easier for each party to do his own job. It is a strange political priority to put the disease - control authorities in a less clear set of laws right now, to make things clearer, and thus make it easier for them to work with their important work, and at the same time make it easier for them to talk in the community. And this I'm not saying because I'm making a strict recommendation, I'm not saying that because I'm recommending more aggressive measures, but simply to point out that our legislation is not clear enough. It's the Lawgiver's setting a clear setting now because we know where the weaknesses in law are. That is why the government should put this issue first. Sadly, the only thing that lacks is that the law is clear and good enough, and that makes sense. No one provided for this situation. Sepsis is e.g. not adequately defined to be mentioned. It is essential that these are put first. The other point I'm adding to is the key role of the General, who's keeping an eye on the executive authority I mentioned earlier. The members of the council there are both clear and unambiguous. It is Generalis to review the project now that experience has already taken place, and they need to be alert to the fact that the Council is not exactly a push for it right now, even though it may not be a direct intention. You need to be aware of this. Now is not the time to weaken the situation. On the contrary, these circumstances make the role of the council rarely more important. And now that these unprecedented situations, as we called them at the outset, have become part of our daily lives, we must realize that the Council must be able to care for his own surveillance role. The government has to ask questions and maintain control. The situation calls for a serious debate on ideologies, e.g. on which to be a normal cut point between the disease prevention and the economic actions, however. This is political evaluation, this is political equilibrium, and after this assessment, a psychiatrist himself has called. I view it as a further obligation to the government for economic action when part of the economic problem is due to government control. President. Without a political debate, the General simply cannot protect the public's interests as it is intended. We hear that the majority of the parts are not completely united, and this in itself is a sign of health care, even though they try to reduce the degree of conflict. The decline in the memory of the item cannot be merely a talk of obedience and a reminder of more than half of it under the merits of solidarity. It's a requirement for subversiveness. But this conversation and supervision isn't just the Council Court, it's an obligation. It is the duty of the government to be here to answer, not just at press conferences, but at the Assembly Hall of the people. This isn't just desirable right now, it's necessary. This afternoon's discussion is good, necessary, and thanks to it, but stressing that this is not enough, which in itself is the largest in the community now and in the historical context of larger issues that have been planned, is scheduled in this way and this one time. I demand, and we demand that the council be progressively informed and that the action in the Senate is under discussion. This fine discussion should have taken place earlier on the side of the government, and it needs to take place more often.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u34	A respectable president. We here discuss the opinion of Dr. Páll the Hreinsson of Purge on the subject of disease control. The Code of Disease Control allows governments to impair individual freedoms. These sources are not so extensive, however, that they violate the Constitution or the European Convention of Human Rights. Human rights are usually permitted if it is necessary to protect human health. It's a question of how far we can go. The choice of action should be moderate. Thus, governments should determine whether or not the measures they take to achieve their goal and whether they will go beyond what needs to be done. As the epidemic continues, the authority's obligation to obtain information on this and to evaluate it grows. A surgeon has authority to judge people in solitary confinement, but this has not been necessary in the past. Páll feels that the authority is also involved when there is evidence that the person has been infected, even if such is not clear. Páll noted that there is a lack of authority to carry a court order of isolation in cases where there is only a suspicion of infection. Is e.g. enough that the person has been in touch with an infected person, or is it enough that the authorities have information that the person was in the same area and at the same time being infected with an infected person? As we have observed, card records, e.g. used to seek out those who had been at Irishman Pub. A review of the law needs to take a look at the experience of the epidemic. Sources of liberation must be reviewed. It's not enough waiting for a total legal review. This has to happen right away. Synchronize with other medical laws. Work must be finished during the introduction of the World Health Organization. What a surprise it is if you have heard that there are 300 laws that will be taken care of! A switch between the disease prevention site and the pathologist has to be made. A respectable president. In all of this condition that Covid-19 has caused, I'm afraid we forgot a certain group of people whose rights to be protected exactly as everyone else has. Sadly, the fact is that there is a group of disability that, due to the Covid condition, cannot obtain food, cannot take into account food or medicine. Sadly, mental health and health in this situation are not well. As a result, family members may be concerned about children, children they may even have to send to school. That must be a question when you see that parents who don't want to send children with even underlying diseases at school are threatened with a child - welfare committee if they don't send their children to school. There's got to be something weird in a society where at the council we get free masks, but at the same time there are people out there who are desperate, older citizens who can't afford to buy masks and can't afford to buy disinfectants. Even worse, sending their children to a bus, even to school, is having trouble because their children need masks to go to a bus. I say, it's maskless violence. This is the case with these people: You cannot fulfill school responsibilities or go in line for food. These are the people with underlying diseases. These are the people who can't afford to get Covid-19. We have also noted that this is the one with the slightest help. True, a single payment of 10,000 credits. But it is also true that older citizens who are in the worst position have not received a dollar. I'm asking why not? What makes the government feel that it can help most of the people except this group? Why on earth is this group left behind? The most vulnerable group that needs help most? The first wave of Covid decided to close physical therapy, exercise, and swimming. This was a close period of considerable time. The result? Where do we draw from when we harm people's health by refusing physical therapy, physical exercise, or swimming, in order to protect them from the virus? We have to think this through. Those attending swimming and exercise are hardworking people, older citizens, desperate ones, who are trying to keep their poor health. What right does the governor have to say to it: you can't keep doing this, we're gonna stop this. What position do these people have after a month if they have not been in physical therapy, swimming, or exercise, and in what position are they in order to become ill? It's going to be in a much worse position. These are the very people that look out. I can say that I've been doing this because I've been doing this and I'm one of those people who have to get into exercise and swimming to stay healthy. It's the people who look out, they take care of the 2 meter rule, they explode, and they follow all the rules. During all this time that Covid has been present, I have not had one infection in these cases. I have not been exposed to a single infection in swimming or exercise. We must also realize that there are amazing conflicting rules. At the same time we were in this state, there was a difference between sports practices. football players, 22 on the field, were allowed to hug, but at the same time, people were not allowed to swim, which is completely incomprehensible from my viewpoint. We're supposed to trust people. We're supposed to ask people. So let us allow them to decide in this case whether they want to remain in solitary confinement or whether they want to go to the right because they are responsible. That's the right thing to do. On the contrary, children are one of the seemingly successful populations in this virus. Hence, it is also strange that we are in a situation where there are no consistent rules as to whether parents have the right to keep sensitive children at home or if they have to send their children to school. It seems that it is the preferred decision for each school, which is, in effect, amazing. Then there's the other thing that I've already pointed out, and I ask, "Why on earth have we not seen to it that this most sensitive group of people can assume that they can get the treatments, masks? " A very large number of these people can't go to the store, go to the pharmacy, because they don't have a mask and have no control, but they can do it otherwise. Then there is the other group we've forgotten completely, and that's the group that can't leave home. I ask: Has the size of that group been mapped even in isolation? Because the people are not thirsty, they have to order all their food and medicine and other items through the dragnet. At a time when food has gone up dramatically because of the Icelandic winch. We can map it, this is not the large group that can't be held around and that can't be helped. I have no doubt that it is our duty not to leave anyone in this unprecedented condition. We must also ask ourselves, at the same time, how in these terrible times, we can even shut down the motion - related individual in complete isolation in a Covid epidemic hospital where no one can visit him, no one can contact him. This is what we do and on what grounds? What is it about the laws and regulations that allow us to isolate individuals so completely that they have no contact with people outside their territory? Even health - care professionals are shocked when only communication is made with health professionals who are protected from top to to to toe with defects and masks. We also need to think about the pressures that are put on our health care staff today. I saw that in Britain and France, and in other lands, the pressure has become intense that they are worrying about being burned out by nurses. Now we need to examine in this unprecedented situation what is happening to our nurses on the front lines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u35	A respectable president. Here we discuss Páll's Hreinsson - up report on governmental authority to take action in order to ensure disease prevention. His identity, in the important report that is being discussed here at the General Assembly, is that the authority is in place in the treatment laws and meets the general requirements of the Constitution, i.e. ... aboutmoderately. This is the main outcome of this report and this assessment, although Páll pointed out the need to change certain aspects of the law as soon as possible and especially those in charge of clarifying legal matters. Of course, it is very important for the city's rights to ensure that any rights to seek justice are guaranteed, that there are clear sources to consult a court case. This is exactly what I have suggested to a group of people who are already working and are preparing for these adjustments. This is a bill for a change in IV. section of the Precautions that are particularly relevant to government protection measures. This change is in my Constitution, and in January 2021, we are working to resolve the matter at the council in December 2020 and to ensure that the Council is being discussed as soon as possible in the light of the case. The service group has considered all the points that Páll mentioned as a time to consider. In addition, he also mentioned an explanation of IV. the section of the law, as this has only been explained, and the further explanation of the role of a psychiatrist by law. However, we do not contribute this time to making a full reexamination of the law, which would take longer. We're primarily talking about the changes that directly depend on the situation here, i.e. The experience we've gained in our wrestling with Covid. After an incident, of course, it is reasonable to adopt such a review when the pandemic is over. During the past few months, a highly targeted antiviral activity has been performed, and this will continue. The bill we set out at the council later in the winter is part of the policy, in the struggle we are fighting. The role of the Generals is undisputed, for the surveillance role of the Generals is truly important. However, we must not forget that the Lawgiver is a general. The aim of the legislation is to better explain the authority to the official measures in accordance with the requirements of the legal order, as mentioned here, and the Constitution's legislation. In general, open - minded laws have been effective in fighting, but it is proper to sharpen and explain laws based on the past few months' experience. This will also include the experience that has developed over the last few years because of other diseases. The staff serve as representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Attorney General, the Department of Justice, the Surgeons, Land Hospital, the Health Care of the capital and the government's office. I decided to appoint this group, since experience with the present epidemic has shown that it is important for different people to deal with it. And because this has been the subject of speaking under time pressure and in great turmoil that we have been repeatedly in, I want to assure the Council that we are spoken to very many each time the decision is made. It matters. We've talked about more subtle measures here than we've taken in most parts of the world. I'd also like to say that our primary objective is to protect life and health, which are the most sacred human rights of every human being. At the same time, especially the school and leisure activities of young people are as effective as possible. We live in a small, well - informed community where the channels are brief and democratic tradition is rich. These are our strengths and part of our strengths, and we are to demand and wish for communication in complex situations in our good society. But it doesn't change it, and it's one of the many scales we're dealing with right now, that success in the fight against the virus - and it doesn't matter what viruses it is, whether it's measles or the virus we're dealing with right now - always depends on participating in the public's activities. That is why these simple rules guide distance, maximum number of people in each space, and the disinfection of us through this wave as well as the others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u36	Mr. President. Five years ago, this hall was discussed with the adjustment of national security views in the shape of the law on national security. This change in concept led us from the mere view of military threat as a risk factor and to the idea of global and social risk factors on an increasing scale. As a result of reading Páll's opinion of the Hreinsson of Cleanst, you may wonder that this change in security has not been able to see the whole system of government. We still have social protection laws on the basis of 1997 that met the requirements for legislation at the time, but it is long ago time for renovating. The environment that we have experienced in the past few months is fundamental to the lives and health of a nation. Hence, we must welcome the foretold and timely review of the disease prevention code. At the same time, I have to express joy in what happened at the highest level. Prime Minister, that the publication of international treaties that are in unveiled from the past 12 years should now be accelerated even further, because what this case also showed was that the assessment of any international agreement should be put first in the process of publication and which was not possibly based on an out - of - date security concept among other things. It was decided not to publish the World Health Organization, which is based on antiseptic laws. As a result, they have lower levels of law. What do we know about the other 299 unsurpassed contracts, unless there are others of the same kind of contracts that are important to the law? It has been discussed here how government demands change as the crown virus is under way. When the crisis has become a permanent situation, it is natural, when the unprecedented times are suddenly set in the spring, for example, by governments. Sending out a clearer message into society. In this context, there is the difference between an binding proposal to behave in a certain way or to submit laws that are clearer and that bind the behavior slightly. Intensification is less effective and, in that respect, is also less vague and is even more uncertain when there is a so-called difference between the use of a health care professional and health minister's regulations, as shown at lunch meetings for the closure or opening of a workout facility. This discrepancy has a direct effect. Which of the common people should listen to a pathologist or minister, who is a higher authority than makes a decision based on his recommendation? As a result, tomorrow we're opening up a gym. Iceland's Youth Association doesn't know what to do. A more clear message is needed for the public to be able to deal with the signs of disease that the common people want to be aware of.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u37	Mr. President. Dr. Hreinsson Pilson's opinion on the rights of a DG and the health minister to the official SEC has been given to treat the administrative and monitoring committee for some time and is still there and will become some future because the committee has called on the experts and jurists to review the past and what is going on right now in the middle of this epidemic, as well as looking ahead for the future. This is indicated in Páll's Hreinsson conclusion that the regulations underlined with this pandemic may result in the inconsistencies of the Regulation and may have sequelae. We've seen this, for example, as mentioned in the previous speaker's talk, on a recent decision to open up our gymnasium again tomorrow. It is also the aspects of these measures that impair individual freedom and management freedom. That in itself is a complete question because now, for example, it is. an intense and burdensome arrangement, just as a ban on business is a very burdensome procedure. It's been at some point in this epidemic, as you know, a distinction between the operation of restaurants and, only, by the way, a lot of the bartenders went shopping and bought a sandwich barbecue so they could go out and run a restaurant. There are a number of cases in this opinion that must be addressed, and that is why, in the opinion of the jurists who have met with a administrative and monitoring committee, must be strengthened by the Administrative Act. Some of us have already met some, suggested that it be done immediately, already. One fine lawyer put it so that when the economic crisis was over, the General would have convened and passed a law within 24 hours. This time we are dealing with problems that threaten not only the economy but also the lives of people. So the question is, Why don't we take immediate action? True, I welcome what was presented in the case of the highest. Healthcare Minister for a bill at the Department of Health. But I would have thought, especially in view of what most men have said, that it should be made up of laws immediately and that this foundation should be established, making clearer the messages that come from governments at any given time. And let's make sure, Mr. President, that there are now about 3,000 people who are under siege. The cumulative number of people who have been infected is 37,000. The rights of these people have been squeezed, so there is now a need for them to be taken out of all doubt by strengthening the framework of the treatment laws in this regard. I'm the highest. Prime Minister, who I very much thank for having been here today and given us this report, so that people do not wait until the year when they present a change in the law of disease but are already doing so. I am absolutely convinced that I speak for all of the people in this room that men would turn them over as soon as possible. It has naturally been observed in this epidemic, as I have said before, that the Iceland government is lucky in one way. She is lucky with government opposition because the present government has shown a great deal of responsibility and has not been getting in the way, as you say, good things have come from the government, although many have been allowed to appear before and be more specific. Therefore, I urge again: Let us immediately make these necessary adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u38	A respectable president. This is a situation. Old people, long - suffering, and loved ones who are not allowed to come and hold hands with them, are badly affected by them to associate with reality and their own lives. Young people who do not receive the nourishment that the community alone can provide, hang over the exchange, and the flow between people who are always blocked by their computer telecommunications. Their children, their teachers, their leisure activities, their carers, their servants, all the people working with them. Price levels are destroyed, business is lost, people are lost. It affects all of us because we are social creatures. We depend on human relations, being able to sit together, exchange history, touch, hug, and operate one another in ways that are impossible for telecommunications. This is a situation that strikes society all over, and it's only natural for people to grow up and say, " Do these things need to be like this? ' Is there no other way to deal with the epidemic? This is a natural discussion, and in fact, there is a prerequisite for careful consideration of decisions, the ability to deal with ideas and ways. But I'm afraid we can't escape the fact that the virus is contagious and it can't be seen. You can't tell who's contagious and who's not. And more important: People contract the virus for the first two days and are at the same time asymptomatic. This is an epidemic, and it is not possible to determine who gets away with the small crippling and who has to fight for his life, even to die, and who has to deal with long - term sequelae. There will be talk of freedom. When involved, there are conflicting issues on the political scene. I have noticed that some, the same men, and the rights of the people to bear the name they choose, and to choose their children's name, fight for the uncivilable right to infect others. For this struggle, it is enough to give a witness to John Stuartur Millur and his basic document on freedom, where freedom alone is bound to something that does not harm others. We often talk about freedom, freedom to do, and freedom to stay. But we should not forget that there is also freedom from something, e.g. Freedom from danger. We are here discussing measures that society takes in order to prevent an infected person from transmitting another virus that can result in death. It also includes measures that each responsible individual will take in order to protect himself and others. There is no need for legal instructions. A respectable president. In his detailed and careful opinion, Páll Hreinsson is thoroughly passing through the authority given by a psychiatrist and health - care minister to take measures to cope with the epidemic that leads to the death of many people and the emergency of the nation's hospitals. From the opinion of the team, these sources are clearly available and unambiguous. It also suggests that moderate measures have been used that have been selected as effective, are as mild, and were applied as mild as possible. Páll concluded his opinion on providing some indications on how to strengthen the foundation of the Law in these matters. It must be expected that governments will respond to that indication in a rapid and effective manner. These include in particular the publication of the World Health Organization, which is referred to in the PD, an emergency handbook. The second, whether to speak of contours, contours, or heifers, is not a cause of rest. It would be preferable, though, that the word used would be the same everywhere. I believe the government has done the right thing to follow the advice of a psychiatrist forever. And I encourage them to continue doing so, even though my party members and I are certainly not at odds with the way governments have then handled business and economic issues. I believe that if there had been an even lower level of action, as some feel desirable, more would not have been infected and weakened and even killed but would have failed the council and would have even been harmed. I don't think it's the role of the Generals to decide whether to go swimming or golfing, but it must come from the need to correct the faults Hreinsson the son of Pálsis. And the sooner, the better. I have borne and continued to trust the three people who have stood in the line of fire in the epidemic and are still standing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u39	A respectable president. A discussion of the Covid epidemic has, in itself, taken place at the Parliamental Hall, although it has been limited to the government's economic activities in relation to the measures taken, the disease prevention and other measures due to the inevitable circumstances in households and companies of the country because of the pandemic. The actions under which Páll the son of Hreinsson, who is here to be discussed, have not personally been discussed, in itself an excellent opening for a discussion here at the council on the political control and authority limits of the government, i.e. Healthcare Ministers and competent authorities, on the one hand and on the other. As we have seen, according to Páll the Hreinsson of Purge, the authority and the Council have been responsible for dealing with the crisis of the lives and health of the citizens. Of course, when it comes to taking the initiative and responding quickly, it is inevitable that governments will continue to exist again. Although such measures by the government, as have many, have been observed here in discussions, a balanced estimate of the balance between these rules and, especially at the beginning, is unmistakably needed by governments. However, it is now eight months after the first transmission and first action, and it is inevitable that the General will take care of the situation. Páll's view of the son of Hreinsson is natural. This is not an opportunity to cover the entire report or its contents, but I would like to review his key findings in these topics. First, I might mention what was commonly mentioned at the beginning of this epidemic, and I felt that I was an analyst in the language of some individual. Senators here, it's important to follow the advice of experts. Thus, at the beginning and for a long time, it was claimed that it was not really the role of politicians to have opinions on the treatment or measures involved in this epidemic. So there are three things to say and this is to be done. I'm afraid of the council and what. Councilmen are obliged to bear in mind that when they say that they will follow the advice of experts, experts do not agree, not in this epidemic or anyone else, but have had many opinions and their emphasis on the ways they should go to suppress this virus. Second, the question arises as to the extent to which experts have been consulted in other fields, of course, because governments are also required to investigate matters sufficiently and to be known here, and this means that there is a need to speak to and hear advice from other experts in other areas. Third, this phrase, following the advice of the experts, is designed to remove responsibility from those with democratic authority to faceless society. If this was to be a guide in any situation facing societies, whether in the medical field or in the other, to follow the expert's advice, it would be a fundamental change in the control ship. And no one has ever made such a change in the control ship. That's all I wanted to do in the beginning. Páll was well - versed in the administration of a disease - control board, including a disease - prevention doctor. For example, I may have missed a little discussion about the disease prevention program because the news is that even though there is a disease - control doctor sitting there, it was not enough. But it is true that what Páll also points out is not binding on a provincial or disease - prevention doctor's proposals. In view of instructions issued by a surgeon two weeks ago by a psychiatrist, I do not have the authority to make rules or measure official protection measures. Iceland's gymnasium. From today's news, it seems to me that it is of the same interest to the public that the public is concerned that there is some conflict between the motion of a psychiatrist and the regulations of a minister. To that end, there is only one answer: There is a Minister's Regulation that has the right and the legal significance in this. But this caused some kind of information, I would think, and I urged the government to explain all of this better. Páll also points out that the 2007 International Union Regulation has not been published in the Management News, and thus it cannot be referred to as being improved for national activities, but this Regulation requires general management of the competent health professionals in the setting of cross-border infectious cases. This Regulation limites the risk-preserved measures for Member States to accept their disease prevention measures across the border. Double screening of the cross-border barriers does not include the measures laid down on the households of cross-border disease prevention. However, there are no exceptions in this Regulation with certain conditions. In fact, this is interesting in the view of the World Health Organization (WHO) of October 8, which I'm going to cross a little later, there is a challenge to cross-border action. Páll noted that a health minister has sufficient legal authority to resort to oppressive alcohol control. However, he needs to be moderate. Then he runs various human rights regulations. This involves the obligation to take action to protect life and health, and various rules of law and democracy, including the moderate order, as well as the non-sustaining rule that conditions may vary, e.g. Between parts of the country, which may require different or varying measures between parts of the country, and the average rule is to select the mildest option. Understandably, there is some space at the beginning of the epidemic, but in time it is necessary for governments to study the matter more carefully and to examine the effectiveness of action and the damage action has caused. These days, we are judging abroad that actions do not meet the legal rule or take a moderate measure on these matters. I give an example from France, where regulations regarding limited restaurants did not measure up to legal regulations and so forth. In Germany, the last Passover was not to be met by bans. I would have liked to review the measures from March 16 even though I would not have had time to cover them thoroughly, many of them, after the first transmission. But the research team of scientists from Iceland's University and the offices of the surgeon and the Hospital has been tracking the epidemic and publishing projections on its development. The website covid.hi.is contains interesting information. It is, in fact, there. A picture showing the development of the pandemic from its first appearance and action. When a player sees this picture - and now he needs to be able to throw it up, but I can print it on my website so that interested ones can better understand it - the question arises, Did individual alcohol control have been given sufficient time to achieve itself before being taken into consideration by the authorities? I'll take as an example on March 24th. Thus, on March 24 and July 31, it appears that the transmissible infectious system is turning aside. Let's have it on March 24 that was at the beginning of the epidemic, but on August 19, twice a screening was taken between the border, which actually closed them. This closure was contrary to previous government declarations that when a virus was already present in the country, it was of little purpose to close the tourist border. In this regard, I would like to mention that on the Web site of the Lancet 8th October medical journal 12 specialists from the World Health Organization. As a result, the screening of tourists on the border says, by permission of the president, is of little value: There is no acceptable way to prevent SARS virus from crossing borders. No matter how thorough the screening process is carried out. This will be explained by the variability in the duration of the viral pregnancy, etc. With this military action on the border, there was hope that restrictions could be taken out of the country, but that has not been carried out. All of these measures have been taken when it is shown that the number of infections is reduced. This needs to be kept in mind because I think the council needs to focus on looking at these actions. A respectable president. Time's up. This discussion is fine, but there has been no way to answer. I would like to encourage a prime committee to believe that this will be a special field for members of the council to discuss these matters regularly and have a direct conversation with the authorities, if that is the case, if it should continue to be the case so as to be heard in all things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u40	Madam President. In the principle stressed by the Pirantars, we talk a lot about the growth and protection of civil rights, that the rights to the rights must be protected, and that they are not restricted. Pirates believe that civil rights belong to individuals and that the rights of each person are equally strong. There are countless historical reasons why the importance of civil rights is what it is. Under challenging conditions in the community, which require decisive action on the part of the government, some things need to be considered. Power comes with responsibility. At the beginning of the year, for the first time, we had a long time before an epidemic that could have cost hundreds or even thousands of lives compared to first predictions. To protect the lives and health of the people of the land, she called for strong governmental action. This involved action that severely impaired the freedom of the citizens. Some lost access to services they relied on. Some had to close their companies and lose their jobs. Some were unable to visit their loved ones. Weddings had to be postponed, and funerals had to be held shut for a straight stream. Only those who have had to attend funerals in this condition can say how bad it is, as difficult as funerals are before. Many of these declines still apply and have serious consequences for the lives of people. As far as we can see, these vast reductions in freedom of movement and the rights of the citizens were largely necessary. When the rights of the cities are so severe and far - reaching, several conditions must be met. The rights to be restricted and the interests being protected by the impairment must be evaluated. Are governments moderate in decision - making? You have to make sure that one thing runs across everyone. Will the government be equal in decision making? It must be careful not to violate the Constitution's laws of human rights when it is decided to impair people's rights. We've got to ask if there's a decrease in the constitution. More important, all government decisions must be thoroughly reasoned. There is no way to know whether these things have been appropriate if we do not get enough support from the government when they make their decisions. We need to know the basis for the decision making. What was involved in that, for example. that the ban was worth 20 people, not 50? How did governments decide what would happen to the school, elementary school, and high school? What about college? What was the opposite, and why were they rejected? Even if we feel that the answers are obvious, we should do so. These are the things that need to be in place when governments inform us about new control measures. By having the most clear criteria and logical support for action, some important things are achieved. First, it increases confidence in the operation. If the public understands the reasons for the operation, he is more likely to trust them. This adds to the solidarity and cohesion of the operations and improves their effectiveness. Second, understanding the rules and following them increases your chances. Increased understanding means better follow-up. Third, monitoring for action is strengthened. If there is evidence, it is easier for the council and the general public to monitor that the rights of the citizens are not restricted beyond what is available. If reasoning support is blurred, further questions and doubts arise about government decisions. Sadly, there have been some failures to explain the support for the operation. In some respects, it is understandable that circumstances are the same. But when it comes to decisive action, there must be an exact need for basis and support. What everyone thought was rules, for example, turned out to be rules. Suddenly, to the standards, not a 20 - foot rule, but a 20 - foot rule, when a minister was on a photograph. Interestingly, in a recent memo published by a psychiatrist sent at the beginning of the third wave of the pandemic in August, there was a careful review of possible measures instead of the proposed actions. It's all developed in the right direction, apparently, but the requirement is the same. As for the fight against Covid-19, it is still a long way off. We will possibly have some sort of disease prevention operation even for another year. We must be careful to maintain a solidarity of action, for long - standing limitations in individual freedom inevitably result in much fatigue, called epidemic fatigue, and is known. This can lead to a loss of success and the subsequent decisive action. It's a vicious circle we don't want to get stuck in. If we want to avoid that cycle, it is necessary to protect our community's adherence to our actions. To accomplish this, they need to be clear and clear so that the rights of individuals and their freedoms are not restricted beyond what is needed to achieve the desired success in preventing disease in order to protect the lives and health of the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u41	A respectable president. I now believe in the position we are, and perhaps in general, that progress in our other good society, and especially how we get out of this time of virus, is directly related to the way we maintain our national solidarity. We must do anything to prevent it from becoming a source of suspicion. This means that we need transparency, we need to talk, we need a clear flow of information on the part of the government, and especially on the part of the government that holds the democratic responsibility. The fact that the government is coming into the chamber right now -- nevertheless, it is happy that we have this opportunity today to discuss exactly this very circle of friends that is so important in all of this. I am convinced that the conversation in this room, but also our conversation, the government's conversation, the conversation, with the nation, was important in trying to explain the ways to go and are going. At first, things went well, and it really is important. The government has been commended, but in February, March, I also intend to allow myself to be self - righteous and say that, on the contrary, the government has also been successful, realizing that then, in February, March, it was not the time to stay. At least I agree. Bjarni Már Magnússon, professor of law at the University of Reykjavík, is always the time to discuss the princely affairs. Still, we felt that it was important to emphasize our confidence in the political authorities and their initial declarations. Am I saying that I agree with everything? No, not necessarily, but it does matter that they know that they have support. Let us bear in mind that at the beginning it was not the freedom - loving senators whom you had much respect for who were so high here that we heard much more voices about walking even further in the use of dramatic action because of the virus. That was even. former senators who said it was supposed to be much further. Overall, I see at first that governments and governments have taken careful, reasonable steps. But the government also made the political decision not to have any conversation here or to cooperate. We respected it, thinking that there was simply so much to do that they didn't want to apply this conversation even though it was unfortunate. We can see a little bit of that today as we experience some measure of despair within certain governmental categories, such as the Independence Party regarding today's trend. In many ways, there is a measure of anxiety. But I'd like to warn you about the polarise that's a little bit in the community right now. If you don't agree with everything the authorities say, do you mean that everything will be wide open? No, not at all. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in my opinion, Dr. Þórólfur Guðnason, who has been outstanding as the rest of the three - eyed men, has encouraged an active discussion of the procedure, that their recommendation will also be associated with other decisions that must be made at this time. I think that the government's decision to have no more conversation and no more information flow at the council, including As a result of a later decision to perform other and more extensive disease prevention measures, people did not fully understand the exact ways in which they were going, and especially when the economic actions were not in accordance with government and government decisions. These big steps were not taken immediately, as we were in the woodland repeatedly, pointing to the need to be done. It is quite clear that the government has far - reaching sources, and it is also responsible. She does not just have the right to have these sources; she also has a vast responsibility to deal with. I think she tried to do it as best she could. Of course, there will be mistakes, and history will show that this was a mistake. But it is better to make decisions, not making them, but making mistakes. When we're in this third wave of the epidemic, which is hard to deal with, you're hoping that the action now will bring us safe and sound. But that does not mean that we cannot criticize. I was sorry that after the summer, after six months of the virus onset, when I and others in the government resistance kindly pointed out that the government could use the time in the summer a little bit better for information and to explain why economic actions were out of harmony with disease prevention measures were therefore taken rather badly. Some say that the government's blacks were sent to the area. I didn't find it to be a sign of the development of a democratic discussion. That's what I want to encourage the highest. Prime Minister, we're applying the discussion here. Therefore, we are here for support rather than to undermine what is being done, whether in homes or in companies. But I also expect the government itself to have appreciated it at the time - not only in the field films, which I actually feel are heavily lacking - when alcohol abuse would be in balance and consistent with economic action, social influence, and the effect on the personal rights and personal protection of people. At some point, the government must have had some government meeting where they've weighed it. I'd love to, if anything. The prime minister may tell us that the government has made a conscious effort to weigh all these measures. I realize that, of course, everything depends on a measure of uncertainty. But it must be that when the virus passes by and the information becomes more advanced, the government requires that it be free of personality, human rights by the constitution, moderate in favor of the legal order. One more thing, I have to criticize the government, even though I also say that much is very well done, especially how certain measures have been made by government officials, although it may be necessary to sharpen lines in recommendations and regulations, and the message needs to be much clearer. I'm particularly surprised that groups such as the Independence Party have not been put under pressure to find that a second matter on the agenda following this council was just authority, which would be new in the treatment laws that depend on decisions made by government officials and health officials. That's what people knew right away during the summer. Congress officials wrote of the need to build more fully under the authority of disease laws. And I'm especially surprised that we're not already discussing the changes, the vital changes that are being built right under the authority of a minister to get deeply involved in people's lives and activities all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u42	President. We're having a huge deal here. It's not always that we're discussing something so big in this room. There is no question about looking or speaking at the level of the epidemic, as it were. But here we are also discussing a large issue involving government authority, whether or not their decisions will be in the rights of the citizens. For me, this isn't the time for nicknames and cheap shots, although people think they're going to get some political success, but we're looking overall at where we're doing this. I'm glad that the government weighed it and determined which side of the line the actions taken are about standing up to the laws and authority available. This was precisely done by getting one of our main experts in these matters, Páll Hreinsson, to earn the assessment we discuss here. Of course, this would not have been done if people had not been evaluating them. It is not only authority that makes such a big difference but also the duty laid upon a minister. We're supposed to know in this room too. The initiative minister is extremely important. This is made clear in Páll the Hreinsson of Purge, by permission of a president: ▪ Thus, it must be assumed that, on advisers, there will be initiatives required to handle epidemics with active measures to protect lives and human health. The government is on the unprecedented scale - I guess I'm not gonna be a senator number I don't know what to use that word - position of making enormously difficult decisions that affect life and health but perhaps taking something on the rights of the citizens. She's making a lot of effort, gets specialists to weigh it and evaluate it, it's a discussion at the council Committee here, and we're discussing it here at the council Hall. I think it's the best. The government has protected itself in this regard. Because what's it all about in the end? It's about finding this line. How can we make these decisions, since taking the initiative to protect people's lives and health without going too far? I don't think I understand, and I haven't understood the majority of scholars that have set up a board of directors and monitoring committees that they don't agree with it, and that Páll's Hreinsson son's opinion that it's just done quite well in gross general terms, and it's been successful on this line, and that's the big picture for me. However, it has been pointed out that several conditions of disease control are needed. And what is the government doing? Yes, it is providing a bill in which these requirements are highlighted specifically in the report to be sharpened. There's been a review here. V.E.G. Healthcare Ministers did so, including and the highest. The prime minister too, so I am not going to spend time in it but to watch that big movie again. The big picture is that this line had to be found between life and health and not going too far on the trial. The report shows that it has succeeded.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u43	Mr. President. We here discuss government authority on the subject of preemptive measures. There is the opinion of Dr. Páll the Hreinsson of Cleanz, of the authority given by a psychiatrist and health minister to the official DCs, which contains a number of useful guidelines on the better terms of the law and particularly on the clearness of laws established by the government. It is important that governments base on clear and explicit laws that are fully in accordance with constitutions when restrictions are placed on the freedom and activities of the citizens, as has been done during the past few months. Mr. President. Before we go any further, I want to thank you for this discussion. It is very important that the politics take the setting here at the legislature to address the actions of the government, which take over employment rights and freedoms in the whole country and walk on and limit the civil rights that we have for a long time considered to be both self - righteous and normal. Such restrictions on the freedom of a democratic society are never allowed and must never be taken for granted or for granted, and should be treated with normal criticism. And that criticism must be heard. That's why I'm celebrating this discussion. Mr. President. Since the Covid-19 epidemic left the door of mankind, the world has made a big change and is amazing to think that just a year ago we had never heard of this disease. In a recent year, the world has changed more and faster than any of these cases have been seen with the exception of the times of world wars. All countries in the world face a similar challenge. Travel has ceased, and the economy of nations, built up, for example. in tourists, a major loss of income has been reported. Me and the Icelanders are among them. It's clear to everyone that Covid-19 is a serious, frequent, life-threatening disease. There is good reason for governments to react, especially to protect vulnerable groups. Many have noted that the damage caused by action can be far more than harmful to the disease, and it is right to listen carefully to such indications. Nobody wants the cure worse than the disease. Hence, it must be evaluated at any given time that governments will take care to limit their freedoms. This may also change over time as the effects of the action on society become more severe. It seems we're seeing visible results in our struggle with the virus in the third wave - I didn't really notice the second wave - but there's no indication of calming down, since its spread abroad does not seem to be going anywhere. Some say that a vaccine is on the opposite side of the corner, but we may have to dry out and dry out better before we see the country in this regard. Therefore, it is expected that government arrangements will have to be over and over again, and the discussion must continue. In any case, Mr. President, the situation in the countries around us and the arrangements of neighboring countries are similar. Travel can begin to take place only when things get better in our neighborhood or because of causes that we cannot see now. Mr. President. The key to life and health is likely to take action that is in line with the dangers facing the best specialists. The response, however, is often controversial, especially now that the time passes, and it goes further from the start of the epidemic. It is important that all the rules that are set are clear and without exception, as at all possible. If there are exceptions that are too many and too complex, it is very important to reduce your success and faith. It is important that the rules are clear so that people are aware of what is expected of them. If the rules are being rounded, changed frequently, and if rules are removed, and then soon put back on. Public belief in action is essential to success in fighting the virus, for if it is lost, it will not be controlled. Mr. President. The requirement is that governments be willing to continue the discussion on how to react. There must be a requirement that all government commands and regulations be based on clear legal authority. In this way, the laws of the government's forcedness must be based on independent, clear and explicit legal authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u44	Mr. President. I'm very celebrating this discussion today. It is important that we here at the temple of the democracies talk about such important measures, such as the preventative measures have been taken. Yeah, looks like who. All too close. Too little closed. Governments must do more. No, governments are doing too much. There's nothing to mark this trident, Kári Stefánsson or the government. You have to listen to the trident, Stefánsson and the government. All of us have it all figured out, or some of it, at least We must agree, though, that we did not expect such a situation at all. We were not prepared at all, and no one had a fixed schedule on how to deal with such an epidemic. It's a completely unforeseen virus that does not compromise laws but has its own. Yes, epidemiologists can predict what could happen, but only to the point that there might be another wave and possibly a third wave. Then we sit at home and ask each other: " Are we in this second wave or perhaps the third wave? Of course, this situation is completely intolerable, unforgivable, burdensome, and life - threatening, both because of the direct consequences of the Korean virus, resulting in the death of millions, and the indirect consequences of the epidemic and its consequences. These very consequences, of loneliness, of financial collapse, have been discussed here. I have previously discussed this situation, and I have the guidance code that now concerns when government rules are blurred and when they become inexhaustible and, in fact, incomprehensible. Why does the government decide not to recommend a psychiatrist who suggested that gymnasiums remain closed in the third wave? Why is it suggested that a team at Cheflavík, Selephoss, and Citynes be trained, regardless of the local population, but not the sports team in Reykjavík, Hafrundi, and Gardavour? When is the two - foot - long rule of distance between order and when is it just a recommendation, and who must follow that rule or recommendation? Should members of Congress let it go at these times when it is requested that people stay at home, allow themselves to get involved in their ideals to visit potential voters? All this, Mr. President, makes chaos and/or irritability in society, and that's really what I have. You're worried. But that is not what I was going to discuss here in this talk. I was going to talk about law and authority, right and wrong, when it's valid and what it needs to be done to do so. V.E.G. Prime Minister requested the opinion of Dr. Páll Hreinsson's office, a judge at EFTA, the authority given by a surgeon and health minister to provide official control measures under contracts, on the basis of documented and unsolved principles of administrative and human rights regulations in the Constitution and international agreements. The greatest figure ever suggested, both in the opinion of Judge Hreinsson, the Bjarni of Magnússon, and so on. The World Health Organization referred to in Article 13, 14 and 17 of B.C.E. the cross-cutting layer for the SEC due to the risk of travel to and from Iceland has not been published in the Control Department as required. Its legal consequences are that the rules there must not be cited. The right effects of loss of expression are the instructions for e.g. This Regulation, the World Regulation, must not be used. When we are going to use rules against the public, the release is important. Governments have to follow the rules of taking effect, but not really for the common people. That's us on a pretext street. Unsubstantiated instructions bind governments, not the common people. Thus, it seems that there is a person's will to test the legal control of government officials for such a lack of formality on the part of the government, i.e. lack of published regulations, shall be used in the interests of those in some way who are not at odds with the operation or who feel that they have suffered financial losses because of direct action by the government. Displaying in the Control Department is not a matter of choice. It's supposed to be obvious, and it's a total burden to have missed it. Mr. President. At the end, I'd like to point out one thing that seems to have also been forgotten, but this is in terms of government announcements to the European Council's chief executive, according to Article 15. Acting on the European Convention of Human Rights. This article clearly shows that Member States can limit basic rights of citizens because of a general emergency that threatens the existence of the nation, now and is undisputed. Icelandic governments are to be informed when taking measures that will impair such basic rights for the inhabitants of the land. Nothing has been asked about such announcements, knowing me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u45	A respectable president. In this discussion, I will refer to my first talk, which I thought would be my only talk on this occasion. But I feel that I have a better chance to continue that talk, and that gives me a chance to explain more fully what I came on the person - care device. I felt that the disease - control authorities could not have given the public a chance to show what is in it by means of the use of disease prevention measures at the time of this virus, the spread of the virus, when the spread of the virus seemed to be going down. I mentioned the second screening, which was recorded on August 19, although it was shown that the virus spread and the wave was going down here. We were hoping to eliminate restrictions in this country. You might say, and I think I can claim that perhaps there are many, even some of them. A senator, was given this idea with the argument that in this way we could have the normal life right here in the country. Sadly, however, this has not been the case. On the contrary, active action was again taken on September 18. When you look at the record on some of the graves, you can see that at that time, the AIDS factor was also above the top and down. In view of the fact that it takes one to two weeks for less infection, I wondered if the procedure on September 18 was premature, i.e. that individual action and its consequences may not be allowed to occur sufficiently. On October 7, which has now been extended to a large extent in November at least And in retrospect to these fine data produced by our fine scientific minds, it is also evident that October 7 was also at the highest level. So with the same reasoning, I would point out that it takes one to two weeks for the operation to reduce the number of infections. It would have been interesting on October 7 to see how this development would have been if people had allowed increased public care and individual protection to come back before these measures were taken. Then they say, " But what about the hospital and the pressures there? ' In response, then, the CDC requested that the Land Hospital's assessment of his ability to respond to the existing position and the transmission of the data then demonstrated and that evolution was then possible. The National Hospital answered that he was fully capable of dealing with the pressures he was facing. Despite this, however, this severe operation was under way on October 7. I think about it because I think it matters when people are confronted with evaluating the results of action. I think it's a long time for someone to look at it in a critical way. Of course, some of those matters I've mentioned are more obvious afterward, and I want to keep them in place. However, we now have a fine record of these actions. I just want to give an example of this: today there was a press conference, this traditional Covid meeting, which was claimed to be correct and to be agreed when they study the evidence, that spreading the infection was going down. However, the pathologist still considers continued heavy measures to be needed. And it's a tough move. I've found in the discussion a bit obvious that people think this is a minor operation, that it's just a procedure to take on young people who are not allowed to go on evil or swim. But even if it's just that, it's tough action against young people who are shown that this virus is not seriously exposed to it and may not even be contagious. In addition, these measures focus on much more groups than just that group. This focuses on dictators, on careers, and on people of all ages who need to exercise that is vitally important. So these measures must not be minimized as hard as possible. In fact, it is still today, in the light of news, quite uncertain about what action will be taken tomorrow. The published protocol appears to be of some uncertain relevance or at least is news of the fact that the rules are unclear. But as I mentioned in my first talk, that is, of course, the regulation, not the government memo. Although this government is the dignified office of a DGC, it is the Regulation of the minister. I was with the Regulation that takes effect tomorrow, and I took it as a result of the very issue of government authority clearance, and I may not feel that it is a good enough measure, that the Regulation which this is, first of all, does not have some kind of sun code, which is clearly meant, as we have considered, to apply just until November 4th, if I remember correctly. All of a sudden, however, there is a provision in this Regulation, with specific points focused on the capital area. It is evident from this provisional principle that there are activities that will remain unattainable; salons, massage parlors, dog salons for some reason, there may be some very reasonable reasons for this, and it says: and similar activities. I would feel that there would be a better chance of having a clear set of rules on what activity is supposed to be closed and that value about that sunset rules, when it would fail. This needs to be a little clearer. I've found that there are some details on the part of the government, and I'm sorry to have to say that, but there's some confusion about the information and the logic of the rules in force. Despite all the fancy portals, electronic portals, and Web sites that have been active here in the past year, I think governments could do much better in presenting these messages. Finally, I want to say this. The fundamental question that governments need to answer is: What is the objective of the operation? Initially, a thorn was needed to give the hospital a chance to cope with infectious and infirm individuals. It was going so well, and there's a problem today. Although some times may have been more stressful, the hospital has been fully able to cope with the illnesses that have occurred from the very beginning. But the hospital has been fully capable of coping. Hence, there is no reason for such exposure to the hospital. It is, of course, a goal to reduce group infections in itself in order to keep them to a minimum, but it is now a new view that suppresses the virus, is called, even to destroy it all, though many times, that the virus will not be destroyed in Iceland. As soon as all action is relieved, let's say that it will be in November, it can be clear that the number of infections will increase. The main goal, as I say, must be that the hospital will be equipped to deal with this virus as well as anything else that will come upon it. But I'd like to reiterate what I said in the previous speech also: If it should be to act in this way, in a way that will be handled, by regulations or other, I believe it is inevitable that the Council will allow it to be handled in a more tangible way than this. While this debate is a well paid price, it is painful not to be able to give a word of advice, I believe it is ideal for the General to have a direct discussion with the competent authorities and to have some kind of environment for the disease prevention measures taken by government proposals in order to set laws when needed because the rules are effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u46	President. I'd like to pick up the thread where I left it last time. As indicated by Páll the Hreinsson of Purge, the principle is that as a citizen, you can do whatever you want as long as it is not forbidden in the law. However, if governments are to do something to restrict these rights, they must adhere to very rigid administrative and administrative principles, as well as to other laws. I'm gonna go over these things and try to do it a little in human language. The authorities are under obligation to protect human rights that are life - and - health. It seems fairly clear to me that's the goal. This is the basis for the legitimate action taken to Páll's opinion, that to ensure a person's life and health, various human rights and civil rights may be impaired in a constitution. But then you have to follow all kinds of formulas to make sure that everything is done with extreme care and such, so I'm just going over what it is. There's talk of legal order. In human language, it means that government can only reduce city rights in a burdensome way, which is clearly the case today, by decisions that are based on legal authority and which are not in opposition to law. There must be a legal authority, and the decision must not be the opposite. Let's go over it a little bit. The checklist is: A form, a document, and a diagram, i.e. Do you think this will hold up a constitution? Does this law fit? They need to ask themselves that question, meaning if they do. Is there a law on this? She needs, for example. To be clear, specific, and specific, it should be for the burdensome decision itself, e.g. infection. However, privileges need to be arranged if the police must react somehow. And regarding the subject: Is the warrant clear enough in the light of its impact? Since this is a far - reaching force, the authority must be particularly clear. I think that came to pass, and Páll reviews it in his opinion, that the legal principle is that major factors met. But when you start to look at it a little further, the explanation is not quite enough. The survey points out, and this is part of the work that the prime minister assigned to Páll, what must be corrected in the law. And the logic of the law needs to be corrected. As far as I can see, the emphasis is placed on doing so. Many have mentioned in the discussion that they may need to be quick to do this work, and that is well. The need to be balanced, i.e. that there is a perplexing view of the fact that you are going to have a disease prevention operation and that they are on a court order. Then there is a need to change the law for the environment only because the environment is a limit of freedom. Four. Sixty-seven. The Constitution says that people must be allowed to appear before judges because of all the limitations of their freedoms. I asked Páll about this at an open meeting of the administrative and surveillance committee. He said that these are, of course, independent rights that need not be placed in the law, even if it is a good thing to do. A man has this independent warrant. I spoke to Reynisson in the trident following, just to point out what happened at this open meeting I mentioned. He said they'd go over it. I'll follow the way this is going to be done because it's gonna have to be on top of it. As indicated in Páll's opinion, governmental authority is so vast that it replaces all sorts of rights to protect life and health, human rights, freedom to function, freedom to work, freedom to travel. All of this, in turn, affects human health, health, and life. Because of this overexhaustible authority to deviate from human rights and civil rights, governments have to protect themselves in everything and be extremely cautious and take on indications. It seems to me that governments are doing a pretty good job taking at least the indications I've heard that they've been received. I trust this and then believe that it will be so that governments will continue to keep their ears open in this regard. The Trinity has called after the criticism, it needs, and it must not be silenced by critical voices because it undermines a solidarity, which, of course, is founded on well - informed discussion. The universal rule is that the law has to treat everyone equally. Do not take one group outside parentheses. Still, according to the Supreme Court, it seems possible to do so to a large extent. In his opinion, Páll applies it to a minister, that a minister can do so too because it is an emergency. Then he must do it very fast, and so on. I can only see that he still has to go to the Lawgiver and ask. You can get started on the basis of the emergency policy and set a wide range of rules - but then make sure that the Lawgiver is consulted. It has to be fixed. It must be done better as much as it can be done. And there are various ways to do so. I can't believe it's going to happen. That seems to be a very rich requirement for this discussion. Plus, it's moderate in the rest. All this stuff I'm saying is a checklist and the government has to mark every detail if they're going to have actions on the rights of the citizens. In human affairs, the average rule is that for the sake of the most urgent public interest, action can be initiated that will impair freedom and human rights, as I have considered. At that time, however, governments must be on guard against moderate behavior. What does that mean? Will handle the situation, e.g. reach your goal? The goal has been defined, and what is it? Yes, it seems to be life and health. Is the goal within your reach? Yeah. At the other end, these measures limit human health. Which outweighs? We have to keep this in mind. It seems to me that the measures protect life and health. But it's just not enough that any individuals seem that way, we have to see it. Also, some cannot be answered, e.g. as with the incidence of suicide. I see I'm burning out of time, so I'm just name them very briefly. There's no right to get over and to return final numbers until the end of the year. Not many people may know this, but all of this must be on the table and clearly. [[The president calls.]] That is the foundation for trust. I can't see that unless this continues to be clearer and becomes understandable and accessible to the public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u47	Mr. President. This has been an interesting and important discussion today. There is a special reason to thank the highest. Prime Minister for calling for this report and calling for a discussion about it. In fact, I have no disagreement about the results of Páll's report to the Hreinsson of Purge. I have neither legal grounds nor any other knowledge that could envise it. We've been defending our public interests, and the measures have really mattered. There is no doubt about it to me. Of course, we can never figure out exactly how much lives we've saved, how many people we've avoided, etc. We will never be able to do that. But to me, there is no doubt that there has been great success. You should agree with it with the highest. Health Minister that it is just the general action of individuals, our personal disinfectants, our masks, disinfectants, hand washing, presence, that has been significant. In this regard, perhaps there is reason to quote Article 7. a paraphernalia that says, with permission of the president: It is a general obligation to pay most precautions in the treatment of infectious diseases and to make every effort not to infect yourself or others, to the extent possible. This law is certainly in the law. I think we've gone into this epidemic with relatively little knowledge, but we're raising it. It's been going well. But I certainly do not agree that we have been prepared. I don't agree with that. There is no question about it: If we had been unprepared, we would have been completely equipped with this epidemic. So it is only wrong that we have been prepared. In fact, I think that the work being done around the HAB flu epidemic in 2009 reminds me, and that's a big factor for the United States. They were prepared, knowing what steps they were to take. This is a unique event. Never before has the use of disinfectants been tested to the extent that we now do. As a result, in the weeks and months that follow, the time for a closer examination of the disease prevention laws is just as early as then. We need to ask: "Where do we have to tighten, where do we have to screw a screw, etc.?? It is now, and I agree with the members of Congress who have entered it. I do not agree with the members of the council that have spoken in some way under pressure from disease prevention during the wrong time. I don't agree with that. The road's growing. Yesterday, over 400,000 were infected worldwide. If there's not a clear message for us to keep the sea, and to continue the action they are, I don't know when that message will come. I agree with what has been said in the case of many members of the council here today that we have done a great deal of weight, and I believe that we should continue to do so. Still, we must always remember what we are doing. We are protecting the lives and health of the people of the land. That's the basic thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u48	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion, it's necessary and important, and interesting things have developed, and opinions have been different. The bottom line may be that the authority given by a psychiatrist and a minister in this viral epidemic that has fallen over us for months, stands by the constitution, and is under law. How important it is that we have made that clear in Páll's fine view of the son of Hreinsson men! As we know, economic activities have increased, and the need for this discussion is so important that it is important to get that opinion from Dr. Páll. The need to reexamine the treatment laws has been made. I agree with that, and I'm glad that this work has started. Then I think we should look only to the neighboring countries. Danes had recently accepted a new disease prevention law, which includes the privileges of the minister's authority. to see and with these laws is a useful piece of work worth considering in the future. For Dana, authority is given by a minister, not by a Dentist, and a so - called disease - control river has been established, giving counsel to a minister and to the physician. Materially, a minister must have some extensive sources of action that often depend on the proposals of a disease prevention. However, it must be ensured that the measures are in accordance with the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights and that they are no more burdensome than necessary. This is very important. In Denmark, close co-operation between the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Justice on these topics and the police must also be ensured, and after the events of surveillance, legal permission to carry out the instructions of a psychiatrist. I mentioned in the beginning that our sources exist, but the question is, How do we use them? We have, for example. see that the duration of isolation is much more burdensome in Iceland than in the countries we compare with. The onset of isolation is based on the screening date in Iceland, but elsewhere it is the day of the first symptoms. It can remember a few days, so the length may be considerably longer here. Without exception, the person diagnosed in Iceland will experience a minimum of 14 days of isolation from the day of display, which is between seven and eight days from the onset of symptoms in the control country. In Iceland, about seven asymptomatic days are required, and two or three days are required in controlled countries. So we go a lot harder than the neighboring countries, and there's a lot of evidence to support, and I think there's a lack in this process. There is no evidence to support why the loss of individual freedoms is considerably longer here, as I mentioned, than in the countries we compare with that which cannot be held responsible for our medical knowledge, i.e. The North countries, by no means. Nevertheless, we are going that way. Then I would like to remind you of the average rule of government law that the government should make only a burdensome decision when there will be no more or less legal policy at any other time. Nor is there any need to question the fact that liberation involves a loss of the individual's sacred rights of 67th. The Constitution and the Convention of Human Rights. I do not argue about the basic government's obligation to protect the lives and health of the common people during such a health epidemic, which is unprecedented. But these measures must not go beyond those necessary to achieve the objective, and of course questions arise when we see that we do not do so in the same way as in other countries. [[The president calls.]] It is very important that I be able to reason on these matters, and I feel that I have a lack of them. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad that this discussion has taken place and that this is now a work to reexamine the treatment law, which is important in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u49	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this fine discussion that has been here, and I also say that throughout this epidemic ever since March, I feel that the Council has been very successful in fulfilling its role and responsibility, i.e. to discuss just the issues that have been discussed, but also other consequences of the epidemic, social and economic situation. Also, I feel that members of Congress have come to this issue with a great deal of responsibility. I must make a comment to them why. Parliaments here discussing that the government has not taken the initiative to discuss. It sure isn't. I have given the council one report on the epidemic, and the last of August 27th, when I spoke specifically about civil rights, though it was. At that time, members of Parliament did not discuss it much but would be more interested in discussing economic measures. The need for this discussion may have been cumulative, but it is only well. Páll's Hreinsson - up report is also being carried out by governments, prime ministers, and health - care ministers, and it is very important to consider them. A few of them. Similarly, members of the United States have discussed the importance of our valuation of other influences when it comes to preventing the disease. That's right, that's what's happened here in a lot of cases. Councilmen, that the first and primary obligation of governments from the beginning has been to protect life and health. But we have always made clear that we need to minimize social and economic impacts. That is why we have emphasized school. It is designed to reduce the impact on children but also to ensure that they can continue their work. We have also been studying and working the analysis of the economic impact of environmental control measures. These are not the only factors that affect people's fear of the virus, of course, the economic situation. He changes our behavior. This may be the largest part of the impact on the economy. But we see, to form in the new analysis of the World Bank Fund, that much harder action can even result in a faster economic improvement. So as we discuss here the importance of moderate action, we need to keep in mind that this may even contribute to a longer period of time in which we need to take measures. [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. Senators are considering this. In this regard, it is not simply a matter of drawing only the right side. We must always have the social and economic consequences, as well as, of course, the health consequences that will become our major subject and primary duty, not just the government, but should be the primary obligation of every member of Congress to express himself on these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why we're elected here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u50	Mr. President. I would recommend a bill to correct a change in the state's financial support law as a result of paying part of the pay period on notice, No. 50/2020, application delivery. The bill comes from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, but behind the greater part, as well as from here, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Brondísdóttttir Haraldsdóttir Brynjar, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Willum Þórsson Tursson. The bill in itself is simple, as indicated by two articles, and by which it is a translation article. The bill suggests one change in the state's financial support law due to the payment of part of the pay on notice. According to 1st mg. 7. Job drivers must submit their monthly support application to the tax, the second term for pay period, and no later than 20 months. By the act of the law, it has been found that this deadline has been unnecessaryly difficult. It has been suggested that employers who meet otherwise with the requirements of the law failed to submit applications in time due to the short deadline. In view of the law's objective to ensure the job drivers who are looking for massive loss of income because of an outbreak of crown virus and its related activities, it is suggested that employers be given more access to their applications. It is suggested that the tax be authorized to provide applications which have been received after an application deadline based on 1 mg. 7. finished the applicant in other respects meets all the laws of the law for support. Job drivers who qualify for support, but for some reason did not submit their application within the current delay, would thus be able to obtain abdicate their application. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill go straight to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his history. I'm on this one. It was only natural that the matter would be replaced, because, as mentioned earlier, it is not always easy to understand that the deadline has been made and that sometimes it has made an end. I wanted to introduce another matter related to this, though, i.e. the final strength that was approved here this spring. I've previously come up with the need to extend that law because it seems to have been something by hand, at least was the tax application form, and the situation suggested that the number of companies did not receive a close-up grant. It made it possible that enterprises which are not worthy of a tax obligation, such as. gym stations and others, they couldn't apply. Some of them contacted the IRS and later received notice that they had received strength and that others had not. There's some discrepancy I think we need to examine. Then another company came to some of the tax interpretations about the conditions and did not get the strength. So I think it's important, Mr. President, to try to meet the companies that did not get the strength either because of the wrong pre-registered tax on application forms or because of tax interpretation. I'd like a guess. A senator and head of the Economic and Business Committee should be able to revise this, that closing grants will be replaced, and that they can apply for those who could not, when this was an open resort. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u52	Mr. President. I think it's possible to make you happy. A senator by informing that the weekend held its highest priority. Secretary of finance for such a bill, for extension of lock-up grants, and actually much more than we did for spring. It'll even come. to meet what is there. It is not a maximal figure for each operator in the same way, which was 2.4 million this spring. Today, it depends on each employee. I think it's the highest. The secretary of finance will recommend that the bill be recommended tomorrow, and then it can be. A senator has a meaningful conversation with the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. This is indeed good news, I think, that these words were heard. That the government has listened to them and would meet those who did not, or were rejected, lock - ups, including some of them. on some technical basis. It is of utmost importance in these actions of the government, insulation grants, resignations, and so forth, to maintain harmony, and to make sure that all are at the same level. It's very important. Another causes suspicion, and such actions are never good. Besides, it would be interesting, and maybe all right to share it here, to learn how much of the support that had actually gone out in spring. There might be one way to measure the results of the procedure, e.g. what was estimated at the final concentration, how much was applied and then how much was paid out. It would be very interesting to know that information would compromise. Many people have been in extreme trouble because of layoffs and the like, so it is important that resources become useful to most people and that they do not reject applications because of some technical issue, the prescription forms that were not properly handled, etc. Then the tax has to be very transparent, and a person needs to be carefully informed about his own issues. Mr. President. Finally, I thank you for that good answer, that I am being treated with the case I've been discussing in the past for a close-up grant.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u54	Mr. President. We all made the decision to hide the Thomson an amazing task in spring. The tax has given them much credit, I think it is safe to say, and is tried to meet, and even see only through their fingers, though something is not quite as if it should be with the person who needs support. To make you happy, though. The senator continues, because I'm clearly in that role, I'd like to inform you that at tomorrow's meeting, the representatives of the IRS will go through every action. Has the IRS sent a special note to the members of the Economic and Business Committee for the topic where all of this information is available and will be discussed at the meeting of the Committee tomorrow. That's it. paritaprevir Agent Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u55	A respectable president. Two weeks ago, an ass went down from Mount Wall down in Eyjafjörður. Likely, this is the latest example we have of the consequences of permafrost's disappearance from the earth because of global warming. A month ago, another time in history, the U.S. Weather Service finished the annual list of hurricane names. Increasing extremes in the weather led to the loss of the alphabet. To cope with climate crisis, all of us need to put forth greater effort. Here I recommend a bill that suggests simple and targeted changes to support the ambitious and permanent policies of Iceland in the battle against disaster warming. First of all, I suggest more ambition, to legalize the non-carbon goals of 2040 and 70% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Second, there is further evidence to support by establishing a powerful climate conference that is made up of independent experts and fortresses as some of the climate watchdog to the authorities. Third, there are changes to deepen the climate discussion. That's what it's all about. in that each year the General shall specifically address climate issues and suggest that the government's policy of action in the climate will be brought in to the council and be confirmed by the Council as a Senate resolution. This could greatly strengthen the fight against climate change, but it is simply that if the system around climate is weakened, it will be reflected directly in the results. I'm going to briefly review these three main points and begin with more ambition. You see, there was a great deal of water in the battle against climate change when the world's countries met around the Paris Convention in 2015, not just because the world was all at once agreeing that we should now aim to keep global warming within 1.5°C but that the governments would agree to do better. Every five years, the Paris Convention is expected to send in updated goals, ambitious goals that are more likely to produce its expected results. This is of utmost importance because the goals set forward in the first round after the Paris Convention's approval work to no avail. The United Nations Environment Agency will agree each year with all the commitments and plans made by the state in climate and will be published in the Emissions Gas Report. In the recent publication of the report, which appeared just under the year, the conclusion was that existing plans would lead, not to global warming, not even 2°C temperature, which is the target of the Paris Convention, but to 3.2°C global warming in the century. There is the possibility that all countries of the world will have to bring in updated goals. And they have started because for a decision made on the basis of the Paris Convention, the states agree that these updated objectives are 9◯12 months prior to a meeting of the climate Treaty. The deadline ran out last February based on the fact that the meeting had been held at this time in November, which may not be due to Covid, but the deadline expired before Covid began to replace everything. At that time, only three countries had submitted up new goals: Marshall Islands, Suriname, and Norway. In our context, Norway is probably the most important thing where Norway, like Iceland, through its role in the EEA Treaty, shares the burden on the Paris Convention with the European Union. In February, for example, Norway decided to take a step further than five years ago. Norway thus gave a new goal to the United Nations to increase its ambition from 40% in emissions to 55%. This made Norway's government a good example, to use its voice internationally and to encourage other countries, while the Norwegian government did this just out of concern that the European Union was about to increase its ambitions as well as because at the same time as the Norwegian government, this was the introduction of the European Commission of a green Community contract that includes. The target for reduction in greenhouse gas emissions should be 50-5555%. The Norwegian government saw this, and rather than waiting for Brussels to negotiate the EU's common objective and take it as an object, the government said: We're going to do this first. Iceland, however, has not updated its goals on the Paris Convention. The actions programme published here in June last year says that Iceland will be involved in the up-to-date activities of countries such as other countries. There's nothing to say that Iceland had already been there. It is also sobering to consider that in this strategy, there is a resolution of goals from the first. Iceland's 2018 national plan of action proclaimed 303/40% of emissions. Updated action programme from 2020 targets 35% of emissions reduction. Some of the factors of 35% are the same as 303/40%, so ambition would not be increasing. We can, for example, take comfort in the fact that the new strategy was being done much better, just down to the top, than the first, so that the emissions were estimated on more reliable grounds, and thus it may have been more realistic to achieve a 35% goal of this year than what appeared in 2018. On the other hand, consider the fact that only three to four months passed before one of the activities of the programme began in June when the weather was high. The Environment Minister reported here at the Congress Hall that a tax cut would be removed from the tax to which part of the recession was being announced in the Action Programme. As a result, I find that the next thing to do is to maintain a government goal, or what to call it, we can call it a reality check. How would it have been like, for example? had been if an independent person with tools and tools to evaluate the government's programme during the past June could have crossed it and made it at the point where the tax of the price would not be getting to the ground, as it turned out in the fall. What if an independent party could have ousted the whole program and told what it was likely to be, what would be unlikely to pass, what practical, and what would not, to prepare public discussions and decisions made on this course. This is the role I proposed, along with some other members of the bill who were submitted here at the council last December, that this climate council would have a review and maintenance role. This is a very important role that it does not have in the current law. During a discussion that started with the bill and the reviews it mentioned, it was noted that it would not work and that it would possibly not work to hide the climate council unchanged from having this role. The same was also noted in the summer when a Capacent report on a future system in the climate management department was released. It showed that the climate Council is in a particular fix - a two - part role. It's on both sides of the board. On one hand, what the government is doing, is being a little Coptic. On the other hand, it is to advise governments, that is, to help governments lay the groundwork for what they should later be about to criticize. So that we agree only with the official financial law, where financial advice, advice from independent experts, is to address public policies, i.e. Budget plan. No one would think of making financial schemes involved in making financial plans. They are to reach the table in a clear way and to look at it in a critical manner. Thus, most of us benefit from the lectures of our experts. Then there is the other factor that makes climate conferences more difficult because in the climate council, there are not only experts but also some ethic professionals, representatives of the industry, representatives of members of society, different members. It is very important that this group and as the largest group come to the table when governments discuss activities in climate. However, this is not to be within the climate Council that reviews government action, as stated in Capacent's report, by permission of the president: It is important that professional and neutral assessments be regularly submitted to the results of government policies and strategies, such as North countries and Britain, e.g. with a report to the council. A broad field of cooperation on climate work needs to be in place. If the Council continues to delegate this two - part role, there is a need to distinguish further. In this way, it is important to establish the role of counselors rather, as some have been in the North countries. What I'm suggesting, Mrs. President, is simply taking this indication from Capacent's report and bringing it into law, that the climate council is appointed experts, five persons appointed under the motion of the General Assembly, on the other hand, to the university committee, individuals with an education that is consistent with the objectives of the Law and the purpose of the Council of Climate. This may include a variety of education, such as economists, biologists, engineers, and physicists, and what it is called. But these would be experts. As important as it is suggested in the bill, it would be to set up what I have called the climate scene in order to promote the communication and cooperation of the government with the economy, the college community, rural society, and environmental organizations, anyone who might have something to offer in the battle for climate change. At the same time, the climate Council would need to be strengthened by independent financial and financial contributions to take part in various activities, that the climate council would become some art form of ingenuity, an expert on climate matters, in close cooperation with institutions that are already involved in these activities, such as the EEA or Weather Service. It gathers the latest in scientific knowledge, and it allows attention to any action by government representatives in the climate council to be considered responsible because it is not just the operation program itself that calls for the sharp attention of experts but a number of prime signals that come here, various investment plans, all kinds of regulations and what it is now called, which the government may do. If a climate Council is to be what is called a watchdog, it must be a little free to do so. You should mention, as noted earlier in quoted text from Capacent's assessment, that the bike is not being invented here. Legal targets for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are for example. are present in Denmark and Norway. The Danes went up to 70% this spring, as suggested in this bill, have one of the most ambitious objectives for 2030 of the countries we compare with. In the United Kingdom and in the United States, the balance of climate advice by experts who are sliding government action is present. It is now being developed in the European Union in the context of increased ambition, which is being discussed between the Parliament and the Commission there. So by agreeing to these changes, it would be impossible to go beyond what happens to the best. The third thing that I mentioned at the outset was the importance of deepening the debate on climate and using the Council as a platform, on the one hand, by laying up yearly special discussions on climate matters in this hall that can, just by how the situation is, specifically taking care of the government's actions or how it is being carried out, the annual report of climate change, the concept of a climate Council, or any incident that comes from that loss. Then, as important as I believe, the plan of action itself meets here in the Senate Hall and then in the form of a synonym. It goes back to a well of government financial laws, since it is the same form as in a financial program. It is only natural that the government's long - term policy limit should be discussed in this room. What is suggested is that, no later than six months after the government has been formed, such proposals will come in order to establish a strategy for climate action before the council and then follow the opinion of the Council of climate to allow us to have a proper discussion of where we are heading, based on science and data, so that we do not become involved in the four months after the climate action programme is presented that one action has just not been in green light between the members of the administrations, such as it has been done in the early summer. President. I have explained the basics of the bill, other references to an article on the subject, a rather long report that I did not read from a word to a word. However, the bill suggests some simple changes in the system that keep the government's actions on climate change. These are system changes that can deliver much more targeted measures and keep governments on the subject, not just during this terms and not the next one but some years ahead. (b) What will be considered in the next article? (b) What will be considered in the next article? Simply put, a stronger system around climate policy is reflected in the growing success of the battle against disaster. As for that goal, we must agree, so I hope that the bill will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u56	Madam President. I come up here mostly to express my approval of this matter and to support it, this is a reasonable matter and does not really call for too much confusion. It seems completely compatible with common sense, and these are well - thought - out and well - developed ideas. I'd like to have a place to talk to. A senator about one thing you sometimes hear skeptics talk about whether it is proper to take on extreme action in climate matters. There is a fear that this will be an economic catastrophe, i.e. If you are very sensitive, e.g. With 70% contractions, it leads to economic disasters and can bring upon the nations and our community just an enormous catastrophe. I tend to look at this other way. On the contrary, I think this could become a driving force for economic progress, become an economic elevator, and be a force for innovation throughout the community. In fact, it is our vision in the Syndicate of new suggestions that we teach on the responsible way. It's our guide that, as we call it, we need to become a green-growing revolution. I'd like to hear something. A senator will consider if this is not an opportunity, this massive reduction in emissions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u57	Madam President. Would it not be one of the best judges that can be passed in Congress that is compatible with common sense? Thank you for the good words. People's doubts about drastic action ignore the fact that without action, the reality of things becomes much more radical. The prospect of inactivity is far more costly than our efforts to prevent disaster. Like a snooze. A senator then referred to action as a driving force for positive evolution. Climate change measures can increase equality, equations, and quality of life in general. It can also be economically wise, or nose, as an example of the large investment that goes on as a result of city lines of up to a dozen million dollars. The benefits are only far greater, tens of billions greater, so most activities in climate are compatible with common sense. Regarding the 70% of the loan I have from Denmark: The European Union is less likely to set its target somewhere between 555/660%, so there is no sky and sea. But let's not forget that if we're 100% now, it's approved and declared Iceland's policy to be a non-carbonic 2040. It's a 20-year period. It's a 100% contraction. What we're talking about here is that in the middle of the period, we're two thirds of the way down to 100% contractions, which I think is wise in view of the fact that the first action you can take is also the one that can produce the most results. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This, in turn, will be more difficult for the insides in the last few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u58	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. Yes, human intelligence has no limit, and the greater challenge of human intelligence, the smarter the solutions will be. At least she's my religion. I wanted to ask my second question exactly to bring up the 70% goal of my life. A senator mentioned. If I were an agnostic, I might say, " Yes, it's a good and blessed thing. It's a noble goal, and it's beautiful, and it sounds good, but how on earth are you going to achieve this? And now I ask why. A senator, and ask him to go into a little bit of the way we can easily reach these goals, whether there are some ways that even face us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u59	A respectable president. That's enough of the way. I don't think they need it, just because Iceland has done so badly in recent years and decades. Greenhouse gas emissions have increased considerably between 1990 and the year, somewhere between the quarter and one third, that I think, at the same time we've been committed to reduce emissions. The opportunity is enough. If we just look at the government's climate program, we're still in its place that we're primarily involved in some sort of system of things. We've got these indiscriminates so people can buy electrical cars, but the other side of the system, which is intensifying the cost of contaminated cars, is not yet creating the other side of the system. That's what's left the system in Norway, e.g. works so well for years, while lowering the cost of electrical cars, it has been raised in fuel cars. We're doing fine these days, trading fuel trucks for electric cars, but it could be better if the system was anointed in this way. Then we haven't started on any system change, and this may be what has been reflected so well by the tax. The antiquated tax is a very simple, moderate system change that is merely a matter of paying people to restore non-class waste, which is the least means of disposal when it comes to waste disposal. It didn't get through. There is a slight change in systems, but it was not established between the ruling parties. Let's just imagine how many structural changes, even bigger than sentencing, wait only here in the community to have discouraged people in control. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-19-10.u60	A respectable president. I come here primarily to express my support for this matter and to thank you. A senator for volunteering. I just want to talk about it for a second. A senator mentioned goals and goals that fit the motive. You see, it's the way with this group of subjects, like so many others, that everyone's somehow ready to do something, but then people get two masks when they have to sacrifice something to do with it. In this regard, it is interesting as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson went over here earlier; that even in crisis like this, where there is a great deal to be dealt with by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, by hiding opportunities, economic opportunities. We often assume that the only way to deal with this is to destroy the economy. That's not exactly true. It is important to bear in mind that how we build up our economy in general and call economic gain and call interest is, in fact, when people want something that they can get and pay for it. Otherwise, I think that music and football, as well as anything, would be called a waste and would not be considered for growth when there is an increase in either, or an increase in, attendance. More money in the game, more investment, more people buying tickets, more people playing soccer, or music. If all mankind, or even much of it, would set the goal of overcoming climate problems, it would be valuable to control it. That's really what we call something valuable, that's something people want. The problem is often that people do not want to fix this problem well enough either because they do not believe that the problem is as real as it is or because they do not want to sacrifice what we have used recently to use energy in any way. Because after all, it's about energy. It's how we get energy, how we use energy. The laws of physics may be against us there, but at times they are very generous. We are so lucky that we have the largest, most important, and most technological advances in human history, and there is no indication that they are slowing down. On the contrary, they're so fast that we can't see their ends out this decade, much less. We are to keep in mind the periods we would like to remember for other reasons, i.e. 2007◯2009. At that time or just before, a louder voice about what is called the English language simply doesn't know how it is translated in Icelandic, but perhaps it can be easily translated as the peak of oil production. Then models that had, in fact, proved that we would not be able to find enough new oil resources to meet the demand for energy. This led to even with an enormous amount of oil prices, it was becoming overexcited, and it was protested here and elsewhere for that reason. People sometimes forget it because they are in the shadow of the 2008 economic collapse. Then it happened sadly that what is called fluffing was invented. This released a flood of new oil wells, or oil wells could be used much more and were actually a revolution in oil production. I'm sorry, because for this reason oil prices were no longer so high because one of the side effects of this high oil price - which are the effects that I want back, a respectable president, as uncomfortable as they are to various members of the community - were that of an enormous investment in green solutions. During this period, it was really possible to hope that we could foresee a very real solution to the problem, because the problem was completely overwhelming, not just in the sense of climate change, for people who are contemplating it, but simply because the oil was so expensive. In other words, it became so lucrative for mankind to cope with the problem. The problem was what? We didn't have enough oil. It's basically the same as saying that oil is so expensive. If the human race could let go of work between 9 and 5 and take care of their children and their friends and family, we could probably all concentrate on overcoming the climate problem and arguing until we all agree on the scientific facts behind what we have to do. That's not the case. People need to take care of their daily activities, and the market will not be expected to solve the problem. Human beings in general are just too much of evolution's offspring to think so far ahead if they do not feel the effects of their own skins in time to react. The nature of this problem is that it takes time for our mistakes to take on ourselves. From that point on, unbelievers find their problem. We can play golf on the moon, but we're not quite good enough to think further ahead, end a crisis that makes it possible for us to see economically, if gone. In view of all of this, it is important for us to realize that in order to overcome this problem, we need to be more open to the general citizen to solve the problem, either by holding on to or by anything like it, or by wanting companies to be guided by such human kindness and by their reputation for the valuable things so that people will abandon the practices that inevitably increase consumption and, consequently, their own emissions. We must have the price of releasing greenhouse gases. It is not a convenient procedure, as is the protest that occurred when the price of oil was in its highest. It's not comfortable, it's no fun. No one should laugh and laugh about it. But we have to do this. And sometimes when the threat is clear enough, the cohesive powers, such as the crown virus, have been incredibly potent. It is rightly asked: What if we were to cope with the climate crisis, as if we were dealing with the crown viral problem? What? Would we slow down the entire economy? Would we go to over 200 billion squares in the treasure store? I'm not sure we have to, but if we had to, if it was totally clear that we had to do it, wouldn't we? Of course we would. We're doing it because of the crown virus. Why would we not do so because of climate change that, in the event of extreme damage, can destroy the environment? There are no exaggerations, it's only understandable that it's not in fashion to have the most pessimistic predictions. They're pretty bad. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further. I was originally going to give a short speech, but as it happens in this good piece, you sometimes let yourself go when the line is started. But I appreciate it. Again for the case, a senator sincerely hopes that in the next term, government and more of the council will have the courage to do this.
