ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u1	Last morning, Páll died of Pétursson, a former general and minister, in the Copavogi Hospital in Copavogur, after a chronic illness at age 83. Páll the son of Pétursson was born at Höllgas in the Continental Valley of March 17, 1937. His parents were the farmers, Hulda Pálsdóttir's daughter, and Pétur the son of Pétursson. Páll grew up there in a rural field. He completed a student's study at Akureyri High School in 1957 and immediately began living in Hölls, such as his mind, and lived the longest while sweet, and was always known to that place. He loved the farm, the land, and its natural environment, animals, especially sheep and horses, and was able to understand their ways. In Páll's early years, there was rich social culture and political interest. His brothers were many of the general members and leading men in the district. With his interest, he became the head of a young advance team member of the country, elected by the Sports Committee, and was chosen to be a candidate for the Foreign Council of the West in the summer of 1974, and elected general of the council then. He was at the General Assembly for 29 years, at 34 legislatures, and was president of the Senate for the last few years. Páll, from the beginning at the General Assembly, was a master speaker who enjoyed the growing opinion and confidence of his fellow Christians. He became president of the Council of the Prosecutors in 1980, and he had that work for 14 years. In the spring of 1995, Páll was appointed Minister of Social Affairs, so he served for a full period of two terms or until the end of his Congress of 2003. Páll made long farming arrangements and the interests of farmers, but he also carried out commissionings at the General Assembly in many media fields, doing dishes, and following him. He was discerning, quick to enter into matters, and brought back what was entrusted to him. He kept in good contact with voters in his district, knew the whole area, the history of the provinces, and the people of them. During the years of his Ministers, many major cases were reached, including in housing and employment markets, and especially new, significant birth and parental legislation. As chairman of a council for an unusually long time, Páll set his mark on the matter of convocation work and its organization. When the council's divisions were removed and the Allied members were assigned to a new assembly with many innovations, he was assigned a rich part of the Constitution. Páll was interested in Norwegian and Western cooperation, and he was first elected to the Council of Northern Ireland in 1980. Twice he became president of the council, first in 1985 and then in 1990, just as the international and the cooperation of the Northern Council with the Baltic States was beginning and built up. Páll's son Pétursson was cheerful by nature, as it were, in his words and in his use of humor but with a temper when he was sharpened. He was a man of great history, with the best connotations during the council, and many of his stomachs were thrown out. As a colorful personality, Páll often put things straight. In political circles, he did not give his share any more than he had sex, but it does indicate that he made friends across the political lines and found great trust when problems arose between individuals and groups. I ask a assembly to remember Páll the son of Pétursson, a former general, by rising from his seats. [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u2	At the Generals Work Programme, 2rd was expected to be covered. The budget bill would be today, Tuesday, November 24th. Now it's clear that this is not going to work, but a letter has been received from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, asking for the President of the Generals that the discussion will be delayed and that it will be conducted no later than the second week of December. This is because proposals for change may influence both the budget and the financial agenda. These changes result from the effects of the chornic virus epidemic, including expedited financial resources, due to government countersaturations. The matter is not on the program for a meeting today. A prime committee discussed the matter, arranged for it at a meeting earlier today, and agreed on this change in work schedule. It will be reported when 2nd report will be announced. There will be laws of money as soon as it is clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u3	Borist has received a letter from Pirata's active chairman... about the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, 3th. Smoke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So it's requested that Víðisdóttir Rosvídsdóttir be seated at the General Assembly today's third deputy of Pirata's district list. 1 strategist on a list of the districts has already announced the fall and the 2nd vice on the list. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and issued a ballot for Rós Víðisdóttir. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u4	As mentioned in the case of the highest. A board of directors and patrols has come together to review Sunna Rós Víðisdóttir 3rd Pirata Prefector in Smoke. n. It was consistent with the Commission's conclusion not to make a comment to the ballot letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u5	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u6	Víðisdóttir Rós Vídídóttir has not taken his place before in the General Assembly, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u7	Sunna Rós Víðisdóttir has signed her commitment to the constitution and is welcome to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u8	As an answer: Economic and Economic Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers, Social and Juvenile Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u9	Mr. President. In the middle of the pandemic, the land hospital will have to change the service of patients due to economics next year. That's a fact. This is true even if contributions have increased from year to year. The function has simply been subsidized for years, and then a limp builds up. Now the governor of the Land Hospital sees the need to delay housing, limit the services of female medicine, pay close attention to doctors, and delay the summer council because the cost of operating is too tight, as well as not being able to work on the quality of the quality of the road. I know it's the highest. A minister has wholeheartedly tried to overcome the cumulative problems of the health system, and I welcome the long timely development of the modern Ring Way. Whatever the case, no matter what the mistakes of the past, regardless of any individual progress that has been taken during the current season, I want to pray to the highest degree. Health Minister for making a clear answer to me: Is the Landspians'being forced to reduce their service to patients in a pandemic season? Is it not really possible to drop the requirements, the budget requirements, and the requirement that the Landspians work in the next three years, thus ensuring proper management conditions for the hospital at these strange times?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The local hospital has written letters to the Ministry and is scheduled to find out about that letter in the following days. There, the National Hospital proposes certain measures to meet the slopes. It's like all institutions have to do when they seem to be out of business. A decline in patient service is not considered in my opinion as part of this procedure. It is clear that in the case of a tilt, as is the case, the Landspians need a flexibility to work at them over a long period of time. It's also totally clear, because of that. A senator refers to a pandemic, stating that any additional cost available at Land Hospital will be improved, if due to Covid-19. This year's budget is available, and it will be available, even more so this year or next year. It does not change that it is my vision and my goal to continue building up and promoting public health systems in Iceland. That's what I've done since my office, and that's what I'm going to do. I'm happy for all the help I can get on that line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u11	Mr. President. I have noticed that many of us in neighboring lands are yielding because of circumstances. If I could, I'd do that, I would, I would, I would, I would, I would, I would, I would. Minister? My sources also tell me that it is easier to get people to work now and to live in this historic unemployment. I'm asking a minister if it's not a good thing right now to attack subspecies in the medical system. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Whether it feels that under these circumstances a measure of temptation to the right elements of the council and the right forces of the government might try to force more private business and privatization in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u12	A respectable president. I agree with the opinion expressed in the senator's case that it is a good thing to attack a subsidiary. Of course, the human problem is one of the largest health - care topics in Iceland, such as the world's health systems. That is why the design and education of health - care professionals are one of the main topics of the HCPs this Friday and one of the priorities that I have highlighted and emphasised in health policy. Regarding temptation problems, I wouldn't call it a moral problem that may be rather just a political distinction. Temptation problems are not particularly political, but we are all aware of this political emphasis here at the General Assembly, because this discussion has been very characteristic of the political scene in Iceland in recent years and decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u13	A respectable president. I have to admit they're a little strange tones about priorities from the government. In the middle of a pandemic, a series of billions of cuts are being proposed to the Land Hospital. This is not to be viewed as a practical requirement, not if it is discovered. It may even need to be. Delaying infrastructure structure, that's nothing more than cutting order. And 15 minutes after Landakot's report, it's an amazing priority for priorities. But okay. An interview with the highest. It is asked about mental health, as it is noted that there is no earmark in the government's budget when it comes to the law on total treatments. These are laws that were agreed here in agreement at a panel of all categories, on the need to eliminate the necessary clinical treatments for the payment system of health insurance in Iceland. During this interview, the minister can say that there is work to be done and that the amount of money to be set aside for this contract needs to be considered. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How far has that work gone? Is the scene going to be clear in a new year? And let us bear in mind that health care - I realize that the highest. A minister constantly points there - another not the people on the list. Perhaps one of the identifying marks of this government is a court order in the medical system. Why? Because it is not intended to consult an independent healthcare professional in Iceland. We have to watch the people's problems. We're calling for treatments, measures, and we're simply going to have to call everyone on deck to do so. This does not mean rule out an independent mental - health professional or other health care professional for handling this problem. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will we see a clear pattern in the new year so that laws that were agreed here at a council a few weeks ago can be met?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u14	A respectable president. Unfortunately, it is not wrong for the first time here that there are no contracts in force with an independent healthcare provider. There's a lot of contracts going on, I think they're in another hundred. I've expected that these types of contracts were contracts, to form with the light that had never been made a deal with until, in my day, because I know it takes a lot of hands to walk, and I've always spoken for it. About what? A senator may belittle the health care services of a health care professional. This year over 2,600 people have received the services of mental health care, 2,600 people. A senator doesn't think that there is any reason to mention in his inquiry here at the General. These people are receiving support and help, professional support, psychological support, mental - health professionals, and other classes that they did not receive in the past. This is a change. Because of what? A member of the Parliament specifically asks of the change in health insurance laws that were certainly unsettling through the General Assembly, I would like to say that I supported that case because I felt that the health minister had the right authority to deal with psychiatrists like other health professionals. That's what the bill went on, and what changed from the Council was going on. It was not about making a decision on exactly which amount to make in such a contract. I want to make sure of what. A senator says that it is my wish that this December the firm be placed in charge of funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u15	A respectable president. I'm sorry to have a minister say we're talking down public health care. It's just not like that. On the other hand, the fact is that people are on hold, including the list of lists. as clinically indicated. It is not a secret, therefore, that we in Reunion have repeatedly provided suggestions to solve the waiting list. To integrate public and private health care. There is no threat as long as the goal is clear, and the goal is to free people from the suffering that has been in the past months and years. That's why I say, "We all need hands on deck." But repeatedly, the government of the left green, forward and independent groups has offered our suggestions, which, in fact, contribute. trying to solve this waiting list problem, whether we are talking about replacement surgery, hip surgery, or psychotherapy. There is no doubt that young people are waiting for psychological treatment. It is said that while disease prevention measures are being carried out, we need to consider the public health of the country. We need to consider the feelings of a nation. [[The president calls.]] As the situation is now, financial contributions that are planned for financial gains will not be sufficient to help people who are looking for service. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I say, what will a minister do to help make all hands really come on deck to meet the needs of our people? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u16	The president asks why. Senator, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u17	A respectable president. Some day they told me there was no need to knock on a door that was open. That's something I want to say to you. A senator. We agree on the importance of psychological services. We agree to ensure that the availability of professional support for mental health problems and that it is important. I guess we agree on that, if you say so. It's important to build psychological services in the public health system. I understand what you're saying. So when a senator deems that I don't think it is enough support for the structure and growth, twice the number of psychologists in the medical clinic and for the development of new national mental health problems. I therefore believe that I have the support of a man. The senator referred to it. And at the same time, I've made my point before, that I want it to be available to finance the budget in December how much money goes for special contracts with private psychologists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u18	A respectable president. Now before the weekend, the government introduced a plan of action, a new package, which included, in fact, a new package. ▪ Kindness, I would call it, that is, kindness within a sheepfold, for wantonness. This involves a petition at $50,000. ... in December. First, what a pleasure it would be if it were the highest! Minister of Social Affairs could tell us here and now that they don't have to wait for this payment and get it on December 1. But what I'm wondering is, if this petition isn't a bear payment, much like the proposals that have come into question and not merely include tax collections, it's not a conversation with my rural society. They, on the one hand, contribute to the poor, especially desperate, and all of us know and then cut down special rents. And not enough with that, special remuneration of a monthly taxon-employment pensioner - these individuals need to reimburse a part of it next year. I'm asking, "I know the highest." Minister of Social Affairs how many crowns of microwave may come out in the middle of nowhere of this bear house, as I call it? If he knows, I would love to know. Also: If a good deed is to be done, if it is to be met with those who may be remembered, why is it not so that it is really active? Why is that not so? Why is this not so that it can be helpful and happy? Why is it that older citizens are being discriminated against only on more recent social insurance benefits and are even less than the poorest ones?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. There were a number of questions in this, first of all, why a debt of 50,000 would not be paid in December 1. This is because we are afraid that we will have to prepare to keep it without impairment, that it will not interfere with other incomes, and that it will be tax-free. I think it's really important. It also takes a certain amount of time on the insurance company computer to make it pay off. The next sentence went wrong. One senator wondered if this fine December supplement would really be bad. That's when I don't really get in touch with what's happened. A senator is saying. I think we're taking a positive step in this regard. We're also separating this tax. It's going to be tax-free, which is not necessarily because it's not usually the kind of thing with monopolies. They are generally restricted and tax-country. It won't be in this case, so I think we should be able to celebrate. Of course, when it comes to the affairs of a community society, the level of local government will have to answer how they react at the same time. It cannot be negative that we are bringing in a supplement of December. The next year, the legal adjustment to meet the most efficient group will occur. The question is, Why is it not comparable for older people? In part, we are doing the same thing with December. We are then staging 1,1 billion for microenergy pensioners in the budgets of the current year, with an earmarked change that we are turning away to get the money to those who truly need it. [[The president calls.]] I'll explain in later on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I must say, for the first time in a long time, I got a clean, specific answer, and that should be a cause for joy. My dear cripples, you will receive this 50,000 bucks. tax free. There's quite new news, I didn't know it. That's a good thing to do then. Minister has already informed us about this. But I also asked the highest. Minister if he knew what it would really bring back to the micropigs. But I didn't get the answer. So how is this 1,1 billion? Yes, he was wearing an earmark to it, and he was to follow the partial removal of a star's decrease of dollars. But I'll ask them again: I'll get the senior citizens of this 50,000 bucks. December supplementation of only striped social security reforms with even less monthly production than the microchip at the same level? [[The president calls.]] If not, why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u21	A respectable president. I thought I answered earlier that this 1.1 billion was due to a system review, because we had an earmark on the budgets of the current year and we have to make use of that money. There was an enormous correction within the system to older citizens here at the time, when the built - in system was created, and it was spoken of as being left behind by microenergy pensioners. We were going to have a system change, but we can't step it as hard as it was planned, but we're still using the money in it so that it works well. In terms of older citizens, we have produced a bill that is designed to specifically address the most treatable groups on the edge of the strip... There are December improvements made to older citizens, just like microenergy donors, jobseekers, and others. [[Up front.]] We have a general December update. Then, because these funds were available for microenergy pensioners and for the earmarked group, they come under stress. That's what I thought I explained. A senator and others have followed up with a minister for financial gain. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're doing right now. We're getting them into the hands of those they were truly wearing ears. So, we should be able to rejoice. Senator. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u22	Mr. President. In economic downturns, it is important to consider the national basework roads. It is one of the basic roads, and it is important to us, especially now that the largest industry, tourism, collapsed almost overnight. Unemployment is at the highest level, as we know, and is still going to rise. Smokeytown has reached 22%. Business situation is serious. What, though, can we do relatively quickly to improve the situation? Mr. President. I believe that the fishing grounds are of great importance to them. Many fish industry do not have enough raw materials to play. Icelandic fishing markets do not provide enough raw materials and have fish that are not involved in a struggle to support work and processing. At the same time, a considerable amount of unworkable fish are removed from the country. This year's increase is 22% and is going to be exported some 60,000 tons of unsatisfactory fish. If we were to win these elements here at home, our values would be up to 10 billion. and new jobs may include up to 1,000. In 2014, 23,000 tons were exported. There was restrictions on the export that was then removed. After that, there has been a steady increase in the export of unexploited fish. Mr. President. We must take advantage of all available resources to support our country's employment. Unemployment is a social lesion and costs a fortune of money. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is willing to use some form of incentive to increase the land's fish production and reduce export of unfed fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It comes up regularly, that inquiry, and the discussion of exporting unexplored fish from Iceland. The views heard during the discussion are absolutely right. In Iceland, however, we have wanted to earn money by obtaining at least the highest price of marine products each time. Throughout the years, we know that shipping by fish has been very large in foreign markets. I know this from my own experience from sea to sea. I think it's just another form now. It may be possible for humans to change when this takes over, as it seems to be now, and then there is probably a possible way to add to the work taking place within our circle, the state of state. We can see, however, how the fishing and the fishing industry have responded. It has answered this with increased technology, increased knowledge, improved technology, and advanced international markets on that basis. We can see this in what is now being built up in Icelandic fish farming companies. It's a complicated task to build. That's what I've been calling for. In case of a moment. A senator has ideas about the best way to do so, taking it into consideration. But I also stress that seamen demand to obtain at the highest price of the catch. And if we are to favor one group above another, we must be ready for that discussion. But I now declare myself ready to discuss any ideas to increase and support further work-up in Iceland. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. After all, there is more to talk about, there is more to be done. This export has become too much, I think everyone agrees on that. But I have another question: Can the highest. While poor employment conditions persist, would a minister intend to change the catch order temporarily to major crops and thus increase the production and fishing process, which would result in increased employment and increased income of the nation's population? Finally, Mr President, I would like to say this: It is the national interests of the whole nation that its shared resource will be the most valuable within the country. It is a political decision that there is the greatest force at home. There is a political fear of independence in making that decision, and it seems that he is more concerned with the nation. We cannot be sure that a business in fishing will do what is best for the nation. During difficult times, it is the role of politicians to defend the work in a foreign land. [[The president calls.]] They must have the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u25	A respectable president. That's what I called out for. A member of the council what he would have to do with earning a living in this country. [[Up front.]] Not a single idea. What happened? A senator was accusing a political opponent of discouragement, that's what we know. Once a man has run out of his language, he has a bicycle in a way that is difficult to deal with. A senator does. This discussion won't give us anything. I'm calling for solutions, and I'll discuss them anywhere and anytime. When it comes to saying that there is too much transport for Icelandic fish, I ask: " What is the goal? I'd love to hear that because I know that, for example. on the coast weather during the summer, the men thanked the possibility of selling the catch as high as they could. With the rule of the Habitat, I'd like to ask. A senator to keep in mind that the key to reducing seawater resources is that we have the Witnesses at the level of water reduction. [[The president calls.]] One of them is that we work on the basis of sustainable innovation and advice from scientists.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u26	President. From the beginning, the goal of disease prevention has been to protect the most vulnerable groups. Given the condition and facilities of the health system, it can be said that the good fortune and perseverance of health care professionals saved us until the end of October. The landakoti infection was accompanied by a tragedy that 13 patients who had been patients there died from the Covid-19 disease. The infection has been reported as a serious incident. The results of the provisional report by the Land Hospital are that the failure of the staff has not led to the failure of the situation. Rather, it was due primarily to the failure of the hospital's house to mix with a man - made suit. Both surgeons and surgeons have followed the Landakoti incident stating that they do not consider the Icelandic health system to be available to cope with epidemics such as the one currently experienced, so we have had to perform extreme measures for all disease prevention. President. In view of the highest. A health minister has now served for over three years, asking if a minister has not been aware of this before the incident in Landakoti took place that the facilities and care of Landkots Hospitals were far below the security standards for such clinics. If so, what had a minister done to ensure improvement and security of patients and staff at that institution? In the end, I'm gonna ask you if it's the highest. A health minister does not consider a minister himself to be fully responsible for the quality and performance of his institutions in the event of a serious incident related to their condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is proper to state that the hospital's internal examination has ended, but the remainder is actually an investigation of a surgeon's office on these developments. It is now in progress, and it is clear that it takes time, and unfortunately it is unlikely that it will be completed before the year, both because of the complexity of the project and because of the tremendous pressures we face because of the epidemic, both in health care and just as much from the surgeon's office. In this discussion, I would like to find out that in view of the fact that the investigation takes a lot of time, and will take a lot of time, the surgeon himself requested a meeting with me and the director of the Land Hospital on the day that the report was published so that we could review the benefits that are already ended at a land hospital. Some of them were already in the lake when it hit spring. These measures are quite a factor, some concern the staff's facilities, others about housing, others are also at increased risk of going between departments, increasing cleaning and screening, etc. So a number of things have already started. Hv. A senator says it was luck to save us so far. That's where I don't agree. Senator. There is a tremendous amount of work to do in trying to protect our most vulnerable people. Fortunately, in this epidemic, we have made progress. However, this incident was true. A senator points to a serious matter. Because of this, people died, and it's horrible, it's pathetic. However, this may emphasize that in spite of major operations, this virus penetrates any fence, and it is not only high - speed but also deadly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u28	President. I thank the Minister for the answers. First, I'd like to say, with luck, I mean that while the building is as it actually is, certain luck is needed until something breaks down. And that's what happened. There was no ventilation on Landakoti, and there was no room available as necessary. That's what I meant. President. We now heard about 4.3 billion publicisations of Land Hospital. Such tilting comes like a wet barrel in the face of hospital managers as well as the whole nation, who have had to endure much in the past nine months because of a frightening pandemic, Covid-19. During the past few months, we have demonstrated the tremendous importance of the health system for the nation. It is surprising, then, that governments are making a marvelous provision for the center of the medical system themselves, the Land Hospital. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why is the vehicle of the health system, where workers have had to work under inhuman stress during the past few years, then a financial supply of many billions? Why does the General not explain the causes of the palace in view of the financial bill the Parliament is working for the Hospital? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why would a minister want to impair the services of the country's leading hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u29	A respectable president. The minister just doesn't want it at all. Hv. There's a senator here asking for a place to stay at the Landakoti. It is so true that the facilities offered by the Icelandic health - care organization are widely available for a child of its day. However, it also takes special facilities to meet the insistence on disease prevention at any given time. At the same time, because of what. The senator asked what the minister here had been doing for the past three years, that we have, for example, been doing. The building of a land hospital on Ring Road, which is a long-term project. We have started the development of nurses in many parts of the country and projects designed to improve nursing facilities in many countries where there are still farms or apartments. And because of what? A senator speaks of a wet rag it is so, unfortunately, that the Landspit knows and knows about this angle and knew what it looked like. But government maintenance is 0.5% per year in health care. [[The president calls.]] And now the budget bill is for release at the General Assembly. I assume that a financial committee will complete its payment and propose a proposal to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to speak to the highest. Health Minister for the college education of students or just students in general. During this disease prevention program, which has been very taxing for many groups, we have tried to do what we can to repair the damage done or perform counter measures, e.g. with lock-backs and inflation grants. We also have extended income-related unemployment benefits, etc. But none of this will prevent the damage that is going to be done. At the same time, tests have been made, as can be made, to the point of preventing disease as a minor to students at high school, high school, and even in college. During the two recent updates of the Regulation, the emphasis on government, the psychiatrist, and the land surgeon has been made. A surgeon has followed up articles that it is important for students to go to school regularly and to be able to attend school. In spite of this, only a small amount of education in high school has been resumed. One school sought annuity so as to be able to operate, where it has a unit system and a different arrangement. That request was rejected on the basis of the need to be consistent and equal between schools. But if only some schools can meet these requirements but others do not? So I ask, " Why is it so important to get students to school? ' Don't you have to be more specific in rules and rules so that all students can be allowed back to school?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I think we agree on that, all of us here, that it is extremely important to maintain unity in education and in school. This is vital at all levels of school, and in each of our deportation measures, we have emphasized that children and young people have as much harmony as possible in their daily lives. In some ways, we have gone beyond the nations around us with a constant and unattracted school job, especially at high school and high school. In some places schools have been stopped for weeks and possibly months. I absolutely agree that it must be priorities and our primary objective, if we are looking to public health and mental health, to ensure a high school standard. I've been the kind of person when we're making decisions on the decisions we've made in school, which we've had to do, and the schools have had to face since this epidemic, that we have a very close partnership with the Ministry of Education and Education in regard to the priorities we're taking over the college and college, but not as much as partners with our rural communities as between high school and high school. In each of our steps, we have tried to make sure that the least school job we can do is prevent disease prevention. That is our common goal. So I share that opinion with you. A senator and I would like to assure him that when we begin to look at the next steps in spring miscommunication, because we are naturally a little far now in the fall, our main objective is that there can be as much seducation as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answers and the emphasis on the fact that the health risks of this much social isolation - students lose their ego, drop can increase, especially in young boys, and other - are becoming more dangerous than the Covid epidemic themselves, but I know we have to go to some intermediate level there. I have seen governments stress the importance of having a standard education that will work, but despite their efforts, the schools have not been able to open their local school again. I think it's extremely important that things get faster and expect the next compromise and recommendation to be clear about how high school can start seducing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u33	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator said that it has been quite different how high school has been able to offer standards. This, in part, depends on the different facilities and circumstances, different amounts of space, but also on the precipitating system or class system, which places considerable limits on the potential for flexibility in organization. We have made it possible that the Ministry of Education has actually assigned every school to look for ways to approach the goal of offering as much as possible a local education. I'll take the focus of a second. A senator's reputation as well. The minister of education that has been seen here in both the public speakers and repeated in the media that we place a high priority on the effectiveness and standards of high school students.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u34	Mr. President. I hereby give an opinion on a proposal for a resolution of the decision made by the European Commission No. 25/2020, change of XIII. Annex to the EEA Transmission Convention. To explain the matter, I'm going to get, with permission of the highest. Mr President, to take a little initiative into the council arrangement: ▪ The aim of the Regulation is to prevent the dangers that may result from being on board aviators who are mentally active or if they are unable to perform their jobs because of injury, fatigue, medicine, illness, or other similar causes. [...] The Regulation also discusses the implementation of psychological assessment of pilots before they are authorized to start work and implement a support programme for pilots to support and help them to identify and react to any kind of problem that could affect their ability to perform their tasks safely. Then the Regulation also set the requirements for a landscape analysis system for planes with a maximum flight mass of over 5,700 kg. The content of this Regulation is largely based on the reaction to the Germanwings plane crash that took place in 2015. I shoot in that many people are freshly remembered when a pilot deliberately flew a plane full of passengers on a mountain slope. I'll continue on with permission of the highest. President: ▪ There is no law in current air travel laws, No. 60/1998, with subsequent changes, for the screening for antipsychotic substances included in the Regulation. This law will be obtained in a new air travel, but the secretary of transportation and rural government intends to provide a bill for new air travel at the 151th legislation. The protocol would then be implemented by a change in technical requirements and administrative rules relating to the operating of aerosols... This is the basis for this body of Congress, and in the Commission opinion of the State Department, it says, by permission of the president: The Commission has consulted Gautur Sturluson from the Ministry of State and Ólafur Hjörleifsson Hjörgsson from the Department of Transport and Division. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 25/2020 from February 7, 2020, for the change in XIII. Annex (Accountry) to the EEA Convention from 2 May 1992, including the Member State Regulation (EU) 2018/1042 of 23 July 2018 for a change in Regulation (EU) No 37/2010. 965/2012 As for technical requirements and management treatments related to support programmes, psychological assessment of flight crews, as well as systematicly organized and random screening for psychiatric activity to ensure the health of aviation and security and services teams, and for the implementation of a landscape analysis system on newly manufactured aircraft, motor detrusions with 5,700 kg documented maximum flight mass or less and agreed to carry six to nine passengers. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatments of the EEA So the committee suggests that the proposal is adopted as it happens. It's dated November 18th, and it's signed by Director Andersen, Director Brynjólfsdóttir Trali Friðbertsson, Bárís Silja, Dögg, Gólgi Bragi Sveinsson, and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u35	Mr. President. I'm aware of this committee party on deck. 367 in case of 217 persons who have been transferred to the highest entrance. President. The Foreign Affairs Committee has discussed the matter and then stated in the Commission's opinion by allowing the president: The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted Gautur Sturluson from the Ministry of State and Gunnlaugur Helgason from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 16/2020 from February 7, 2020, of the change in IX. Annex (System Service) to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and enter the Member State Regulation of the European Parliament and Council (EU) 2019/630 from 17 April 2019 on a change in Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 - then comes the raisin at the end of the hot dog - in terms of minimum insurance protection from loss due to the CHAP. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. It's dated November 18th and under this date, Sigríður Á. Andersen, president and executive, Bryndís Trali Haraldsdóttir, who solves the storyteller of Brondældsdóttir, Gónar Bragi Sveinsson, Njáll Einarsson, Trausti of Friðbertsson, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfófótir, Dögg Döggnsdurfótir Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u36	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 67/2020 of the change in IX. Annex, financial services back at the EEA Convention. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted Gautur Sturluson from the Ministry of State and Benedikt Hallgrímsson from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The proposal is to consult the General Documentation Agency to confirm a confirmed decision and enter the EEA Convention. Here are five factors that explain what this is about and what is being confirmed: a. Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 1286/2014, from 26 November 2014 on key information documents for packed and insurance-related investment products for general investors, b. Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 2340/2016, from 14 December 2016 on the change in EU Regulation No. 1286/2014 of key information documents for packed and insurance-related investment products for general investors regarding its day of validation, c. The Commission Regulation 2016/1904 is responsible for the addition of Council Regulation and Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1286/2014 as a result, d. deliver the Commission Regulation, 2017/653, on the addition of Council Regulation and Council Regulation, No. 1286/2014, and the raisin in the hot dog end, about key information documents for packed and insurance-related investment products by measuring for technical monitoring standards for the presentation, input, review and review of key information documents and the requirements for meeting the requirements for providing such documents, in accordance with Commission Regulation 2019/186, on the review of prior regulations, 2017/653 to legalize the changes of the manufacturer's packed and insurance-based investment products for the general investors, which offer share cards in funds as at 32rd. Council and Council Regulation, No. 1286/2014, as pre-existing investments, extended the period of leave within this article. The committee concluded that the proposal's presentation is in line with Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The aforementioned opinion is dated November 18th. It's what you're gonna sign. Councilmen Sigríður Á. Andersen, president and executive, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, who relieves the authority of the Taurus Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Sveinsson Sólsson, Logi Einarsson Friðbertsson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brjörk Silja, Siljag Dögnsdótir, and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. Mr. President. I've completed this committee party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u37	Mr. President. It's all set up for our routine. I'd like to report a committee party on deck. 369 to 219. A case from what? State Department. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted Gautur Sturluson from the Ministry of State and Drífa Sigurðardóttir and the Ministry of Justice Ragna Bjarnadóttir. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission, No. 63/2020, from 30 April that year on the change in IX. Annex on financial services to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and enter the Treaty Directive of the European Parliament and Council 2018/843, Dayetta 30 May 2018, on the change in EU Directive 2015/849 of measures to use financial resources or to finance terrorism and on the change of Directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/ESB. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The nominee is dated November 18, 2020, and it is written by a man. Councilmen Sigríður Á. Andersen, president and executive, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, who relieves the authority of the Taurus Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Sveinsson Sólsson, Logi Trausti Friðbertsson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Björk Brjolfótsdótir, Siljag Silja, and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. Mr. President. I've come to an end.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u38	Mr. President. I am both kind and obliged to give. paritaprevir A little time off from his important work, Trarí Guðmundsson. I'm going to make an explanation for a proposal for Congress resolution on the determination of the joint EEA committee, No. 83/2020, about the change in XI. An appendix. It's about electronic communications, audio and video services and the information community. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted Gautur Sturluson from the State Department and Vera Sveinbjörnsdóttir Beardddóttir from the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission, No. 83/2020, from 12 June 2020 on the change in XI. Annexes on electronic communications, audio and video services and the information community, and Protocol 37, which contains the file set at 101. g. to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and to enter the Convention of Council Regulation and Council of 2019/517 of 19 March 2019 to implement the headcount. The nature and role of the Agency, and the variation and breakdown of Regulation No. 733/2002 as well as breakdown of Commission Regulation No. 874/2004. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. So the committee suggests that it will be approved. The nominee is dated November 18, 2020, and is written by the chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir He's going on. Andersen, along with his leading man, what's his name? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, and ah. The members of the Council of Bríti Haraldsdóttir, Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Einarsson, Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson, Róka Brynjólfsdóttir Braynfjord, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u39	Mr. President. I'm here to review the Commission's opinion on the subject. 371 to 221 relevant for change in IX. Annex to the EEA Convention. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted Gautur Sturluson from the Ministry of State and Benedikt Hallgrímsson from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. With the proposal, the Council is looking for permission to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee, No. 81/2020, of June 12, 2020, of the change in IX. Annex to the European Parliament on May 2, 1992, and entry of the Convention Directive and of the Council of 2013/50/EU from 22 October 2013 of the review of the Council Directive and of the 2004/109/EC on co-ordination requirements related to information on the publishers of the stocks registered in a structured market, Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2003/71/EC on the tender tender tender tenders and registration that should be published or taken up to the registration and Commission Directive 2007/14/EC on detailed rules to implement a specific Directive 2004/109/EC. The committee believes that the proposal's presentation is in line with Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The nominee is dated November 18, 2020, and it is written by a man. Councilmen Sigríður Á. Andersen, president and executive, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, who relieves the authority of the Taleman, Borti Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Trausti Friðbertsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brjörk, Þóljörnóljörnóttur, Þólg Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdótir, and the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Therefore, Mr. President, I have concluded my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u40	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend the Committee's Committee on billing to legalize government laws on public finances, No. 123/2015, total balance and debt ratio criteria. I will think mostly with the opinion of the committee, as it happens, that slightly reduces what the matter is about, the comments on the subject, and the discussion that took place. It's a legal committee. However, I state that despite everyone's agreement that, in view of circumstances, it is inevitable to deviate from the financial rule for another three years, as suggested here, there are other aspects of the matter in view of the future, government policy, official financial and financial regulations, including them. appears in the review. Then there is the possibility that there will be some warnings about the matter. The committee found the matter concomitantly with what it discussed on the proposal for understanding the financial agenda for the year 2021/2025 and a bill for the budget of 2021. The matter is closely related, since the basis for financial programmes assumes that the Council approves the bill before or along with the release of the Senate arrangement. That is why the committee called for comments from the same sources as the rest of the two cases. Advertisers agreed with the viewpoint shown in the bill's report on the need to compromise financial laws 7 paragraph. a law on government finance for three years, in addition to the three years available in the law, and already had been reimbursed on the basis of a review of set-of-the-aggressive financial policy of 20188/2022 this September, on the basis of that proposal, on the basis of Article 10. the law on government finance, being turned away from financial regulations, by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York. 7. the law on government finances, the rules of execution, the rules of debt payment, and the rules of payment. Several comments discussed the need to review the rest of the financial rules, not just to withdraw from them temporarily. I think it may be said that the next step is important to evaluate the effectiveness of the law and to see if the intended targets of the law have been met and if so, in fact, I direct them. to refer to a state accountant's statement in an accounting report on the accounts of 2019. Moreover, it states that a review of the legal requirements needs to be made. The Commission agrees with the many viewpoints expressed by sources. The committee feels that it is inevitable to suggest that the bill will be approved as if there is no logic in the report with the bill and in the opinion I am considering here. At the same time, she considers it necessary to accept the financial rules, as I agreed, for a review before they return. The Commission agrees with sources of information that financial regulations should not contribute to making decisions that are harmful to the government, but they should also not prevent the making of necessary decisions, e.g. to attack in practical investments. Despite the need to look for documents for anomalies, as suggested in the bill, it is also important to maintain credibility and to maintain discipline in public finances, while there is an essential flexibility to cope with future tragedy. I think it may be said that this brings up the attitudes and goals that such conditions need to meet, but there are many viewpoints as to how such rules need to look in order to reach that goal. There was a great debate in the leading of the approval of the Act 2015, which went into effect on January 1, 2016. Were even. Talk about a spending policy and the economic rhythm of the corrected survival. The main criticism of economic rhythm correction has been that it is difficult to evaluate or determine where we are in the best interests of our time. Such rules vary greatly from country to country, and they are also difficult to appreciate, as there are differences in the degree to which the total financial law on public finances is compared. However, I believe it is important that such discussions be made in connection with the review of the law. The bill we're discussing here is suggested that the conditions be removed from Article 7. legislation on public financial matters over the years 2023/22025. The law set out three criteria for the survival and economy of the public: 1st That the total balance of over five years should always be positive and annual, at all times, below 2.5% of gross domestic product. 2. At the same time, apart from the Penitentiary and Business bonds and the disclosure of funds and bank accounts, less than 30% of the gross domestic product is available. 3. If you have a debt ratio Number 2. above 30% of the excess to decrease over 3 years by at least 5% every year. In the 10th. The law states that if the core institutions of financial policy fail or predictable that they will be broken because of economic failures, national years or other circumstances, which are impossible to deal with with by means of available measures, the Secretary of Ministers shall submit to the Council a proposal for a resolution of the change of course as soon as possible. In such cases, it is permitted to depart for up to three years from conditions 7. The economic impact of the pandemic crown virus depends on this directive and on a review of the financial policy adopted at the September 3 Council of September. was turned aside by the financial rule referred to in Article 10. It's the law for the 2020/22022. It is now suggested to extend that period so that the complex financial rules will not return until 2026 and that the rules will be canceled for a total of six years. The bill also suggests that a financial body will be assigned to evaluate whether government's declared financial objective will be established in Article 7. Since the year 2026, the law of government funds is back in force. This important role of financial adviser is being taken into account, and I'll be there later. A respectable president. It is important to place the motive and need to compromise the economic rules and to draw out why it is necessary to deviate from the financial rule of Article 7. this long time, which is six years. Despite all the uncertainty, it is quite clear that the economic blow now outweighs the precedent for a very long time. In other words, the Korean virus epidemic has caused a financial breakdown, in fact, an outstanding event in the modern - day history of Iceland. The economy has estimated that Iceland's GDP will fall by 7.6% this year and that unemployment will be about 7.8% of the population. The newest projections for the Bank of America, as well as for the Federal Bank, that were made on the bank's last interest in money policy committee, are pessimism, and this year's decrease is about 8.5%. While economic growth is expected next year, unemployment continues and will take time to process the economic crisis. It looks like a limp at the total production of the public will be about 300 billion dollars. During both the years and the collection until the end of 2021, there will be about 600 billion dollars. This accounts for more than 20% of the domestic product of the current year and more than 75% of the income of the A-part of the State next year. The success of these plans will lead to a dramatic increase in the debt of government law on public finances in the years to come. Clearly, the economic breakdown of this magnitude is bigger than that, so it can be extended within the boundaries of the law. Governments have made clear a policy to cope with these influences. First, allow automotive equations to work fully, through increased unemployment expenses, and in the form of a lower tax system, such as in income taxation. A security network built into the local labour market has a major role in protecting homes' financial resources and supporting economic demand when economic pressures arise. Second, there have been many powerful demonstrations, such as procrastination of taxes, unemployment benefits, reduced employment rate, pay a part of pay on notice, granting state responsibilities on money money, as well as some special investment initiatives. Since the outbreak first, action has been made in a special prime plant, a tapeworm we like to call, when changing a few of the laws and the financial resources, and we are expecting a five-gain bill soon, with an increase in costs, including the cost. In the health system, and unemployment will be there. Third, public services, services, or transfer systems have not been reduced despite loss of income. On the contrary, there have been increases in the support of various social instruments. A respectable president. This situation may be described in this way, watching budget 2021, in a state's income drop, with an estimated 72 billion dollars. the income and over 1,000 billion dollars. the amount of expenses, or more than that, will provide the income for three budgets of ten, or 15 sectors of 35. Then I'm referring to the medical department, the Department of Social Affairs and Child Services and the Ministry of Education. If we take out what we have to do with these three schemes and add the expected interest fees, we'll be borrowing the income and the cause of the products and the paintings of all other recruitments and administrations. The purpose of this is to soften the damage that homes and jobs are facing under their present circumstances. Clearly, these and necessary measures are only to be temporarily removed from financial regulations in Article 7. the law on public financial matters, so that the balance of government funds will be fully accomplished. I brought in only envelopes at the beginning of my speech and discussions about the laws and financial rules, the ones we are turning away from, which are used in many other nations, and especially after the crisis in 2008, in order to promote clear goals in public finance, discipline, and stability. In many countries, due targets may range from 40 to 66% of GDP, in contrast with national groups, with different exports. North countries have somewhat different financial rules. Sweden is responsible for 35% of gross domestic product and the remaining amount of GDP will be 2% of the gross national product over a given period of time. In Denmark, the official return of the rest should be 0.5◯1.5% over a particular period. Finland has a flexible target on a range of minus 1 to 1% of gross domestic product, with aims for debt collection. Thus, in this comparison, more is to be said to be true of the financial code. In this discussion, a respected president has reviewed that when preparing laws on public finances, there was a considerable debate about the financial principles that were taking into account the current economic situation and long - term goals in public finance. Thus, it is in the hands of the government at any given time to set out detailed financial goals that, while subject to government laws on the type of work, are dependent on the laws on the type of government. The statistics of the laws of the law provide a flexibility to coordinate public finances with changes in the economy. Experience also shows that the rules can allow a considerable amount of room for whether there is a tax cut or a tax charge when necessary. The economic crisis following a disease prevention operation has led to the need for governments around the world to use an issue of regulations on government regulations in order to temporarily compromise their financial laws or to allow variations, as suggested in this bill. It is important in this context to look into circumstances, that the State Fund of its balance role, including with respect to baseline stability. In general, the public financial programme includes aggressive action and is about maintaining long - term growth in expenses despite changes in income. This includes preventing spending from increasing in rhythms with increasing taxes because of greater economic activity. Thus, there will be rest for the public, which will be put aside from the economy, thereby reducing the overall demand. In recession times, tax revenues are linked, while expenses are held firmly, thus creating a tail that works against demand contractions. The fluctuation modulatory effect, e.g. actions, are the very essence of most financial regulations designed to promote stability in the economy. This will not be done in this situation or through this situation in a different way than increasing the debt of state funds and much beyond the rule of law today. A respectable president. Regarding how far we can go when we're discussing debt - this has been called a sustainable debt, and in the opinion of a financial body, a fine press on this aspect. A financial body has pointed out that the law has contributed to the good standing of the state's funds for the Korean epidemic. For example, at the beginning of the epidemic, the state's debt rate was very favorable in comparison with most other countries. The debt under the law's rule of debt was 22.5% of GDP by the end of 2019, which is well below 30% of the financial rules. However, a high degree of compromise is now expected in the coming years, where the survival rate of the total public body will be up to 15.5% of gross domestic product in 2020, 13% in 2021 and 10% in 2022. The salient business will be financed by borrowing. The effects of the crash include: ..."in the fact that the public debt will respond, the programmes that we will see in financial programmes, about 59% of GDP by the end of 2025 C.E. As a result, the expansion of the financial programme included a twofold solution: one way to ensure that the legal structure of the legal policy will create a needed flexibility in order to promote public finance as an economic stability and economic growth tool in the years to come and, on the other hand, that the boundaries and implementation of financial policy will be restored to the level of financial rules established by the General of the Council, as so many countries have done. The objective is to stop the debt collection in 2025, and from the year 2026, financial guidelines return. As to the importance of these timing and rules, I would like to refer to the opinion of the financial council and I'll have to read it up here as it happens, by permission of the President: In 2026 [...], the goal of stopping debt increases will be set in 2025. A financial body now wants to reimburse the view that when financial rules are set aside, they call for a well - defined and beneficial process. This helps to maintain the credibility of the policy [...] It also applies to the adaptation process of the decline in debt. In this context, it may be added that transparency is important for all reactions. By means of a financial project and the legal bill that has been presented, it can be said to be on top of the above. The need to set the target of stopping debt collection and when the rules are planned to return to values will not be better described in this opinion of financial advisers. However, it is recognized in a financial programme that, in view of the high uncertainty about economic and government economic developments, there is uncertainty about how fast and extensive the adjustment can be, while, at the same time, the forced action to be taken in order to stop and reach a debt collection. I referred to the opinion of a financial body that has an undisputed key role in securing objective assessments of public financial policy. 13th. The law on government finance shows that its role is to evaluate whether financial and financial policies depend on the baseline values listed in 2 mg. Section 6. and conditions 7. ..... The baseline values and financial conditions are laid down when financial advisers evaluate policy and plan. It's been very well with the Generals, I'd like to say. A respectable president. The bill suggests that in place of the assessment of the conditions it should determine whether the official financial objective of the government will be established and their implementation will allow conditions in Article 7. restarting from 2026 C.E. Already the budget is set. 7. is temporarily replaced by a baseline value in the government financial law, one of the policy guidance. The law continues to form a framework for the construction and production of public funds and to define financial counsel. Uncertainty of the development of events in the immediate future makes it difficult for governments to meet the laws of caution. However, it is clear that in the years that the General Parliament and financial Council will have to carefully monitor how government income and fees will develop. The changes in the law call for not only a change in the role of financial advisers but also a change in government and Generality. The role of governments following changes in government law on public finance must be shown that their objective and compliance is to be reactivated in 2026. The role of the Generalis must be given to governments to sustain these matters and continually evaluate how practical it is to restore financial laws in 2026. In this regard, the objective evaluation of the financial body will be just as important. All of this said, a respectable president, the Commission proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. This is acceptable to Jón Valdimarsson, an officer of the Committee. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur son of Benediktsson, Páll Magnússon, Ágúst Ólafur the son of Ágústsson, with a warning, Sæland Goad, with a warning, Birgir, Þórarinsson of Ernarin, Bebea Björn Gunnarsson Leví of Gunns, Steinunn, Ezna's Þóra of the Árnadóttir, and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnsdoz's Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I think it's obvious that the financial rules on public finances have to be set aside. The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter and the government, set up financial policies in the beginning, as the law assumes. She was severely criticized by the financial council for the lack of supervision that would put her at risk. It was found that there was a failure of hairy hair, and at the fall of WOW, it had to be shifted from that direction to a new one. This was done, and now it is the third policy the government has in three years. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with me in this situation shows that it is unwise to have specific financial rules under law. This series of events that no one could foresee, of course, shows that it is not good for the rules to be placed in law. I'd like to ask who, too. A senator, mentioned at 7th C.E. will start again in 2026, whether it is the beginning year, and it can be seen as a positive result of a government fund over a five - year period, from 2026 to 2031. [[The president calls.]] Or how does this feel?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. First, I'd like to step toward the entrance of the enemy, which came into policy at the highest level. Governments in the beginning. That's right, as a matter of course. According to one senator, financial advisers criticized the government's policy in a particular straitjacket. There I would like to say: Yes, that policy was based on economic forecasts that were optimistic and thus went on to fulfill the promises made in a government contract, including the Treaty. about the internal structure, to strengthen the health system, and I could count for a long time. There was little to it, however, to the point of financial counsel, and it worked out. We were forced to come here and reconsider that course because it didn't work out. Then, however, it was built into a policy of uncertainty. I think this uncertainty range is very important to all who set their course in the future. In this context, I would like to back up the question about whether financial rules should be set in law. Now I can just say what I think of it. I believe that the government should set that goals, not impress them in the law. I feel somehow in front of you, and then maybe I'm answering the final question, that it's starting to work a little bit so that we can have some tighter and better rules, but we're having a really hard time holding down rules like this, and I'm not talking about a recession. [[The president calls.]] Then we can't help it. Then you might ask: When the rules apply only in one direction, would it be wise to keep them in the law? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u43	Mr. President. As soon as the economic collapse and collapse of the banks in the fall of 2008, or soon thereafter, new laws on public finances were being developed. They needed to be done anyway, but they were important in the light of circumstances. A whole process of consultation began, working groups were formed and consulted and counselled by approved institutions, etc. Four financiers came to negotiate these laws on public finances, which were then approved here in 2015. The last articles that came in on the bill were the financial rules. 7. and 10th par. the policy and the financial rules did not go through this process of consultation, and it was found, in the detriment of the matter at the Senate Hall, that there were conflicting issues. The 64 articles, if I recall correctly, and all for my benefit, are only 7. On the financial rules. I couldn't agree with that. A senator when he says that it is his personal opinion that it is more reasonable for every government to put its own financial rules, for of course you do not write politics into a law on public finance that needs to apply both the state funds and the sweat funds of the country. We agree on this, me and what. A senator, but I would like to ask if there was a talk then, either at the right time. The legal committee, or government and management, is making changes in the laws on official financial matters in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a G. Harðardóttir who's going to come back with us. Hv. A senator was a member of a financial committee and was a minister of finance when this work all started. She knows it a lot better than I do. However, I was very interested in this and observed during this period, in the leadings of our approval of this 2013-2016. In view of the economic events we are dealing with, I have thought that it is far more reasonable that a government should set conditions in the beginning of each terms. It may be that there may be a system of debt at home, but at some point in the world, it will turn to some kind of sustainableity that would limit us to a debt committed to future generations. Of course, we've discussed this to some extent in a financial committee, perhaps in a tunnel and in the beginning of meetings, etc., but we haven't taken this into consideration. In my background, I reviewed it a little bit and referred them to a number of people who call for a reexamination of the law. It seems to me that before 7. will be restarted in discussions and reviews and a clear opinion of the value of such conditions in the law. On the other hand, I supported the opinion of a financial body in the already raised question: Why do we say we stop debt collection 2025 and set the criteria 2026? I think it's very important, and I agree with a financial body in this on credible policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u45	Mr. President. I'm just going to enter this discussion about a change in government law, i.e. the requirement for overall balance and debt ratio. There are some things I would like to mention in this matter. For one thing, I'd like to express my joy that all members of the committee are on the level; it's always good when we can agree on the policy the government has made. That is especially remarkable when we consider basics, such as the way we are going to get out of this code. No, I'm sure it's not. We see a great conflict between government and government opposition in many parts of us; people are going to bite each other's throats because of reactions or non-cooperative reactions, whether in preventative or economic situations. We haven't done it here. The actions of the management board have improved with critical discussions in this room, both because the discussion highlights the wisdom of the discussion and when it has happened to feel that the defects have been discovered, we have joined together and fixed them. Because these are critical times, harmony and unity are important, and we should acknowledge and thank them. On the one hand, Mr. President, it is so, as tired as it is now, that in the last ten months we have struggled with unprecedented time. I allow me to state that we are most available in this hall, we expect to stand in our position to see the earth opening up for us, and an entire industry just tumbled off the edge. More than hundreds of billions of dollars of value never created for a year, millions of hours that were not around; that is, we based on the fact that this happened all over the world at the same time, that it would be dead directly on all the machines of the world's economy at about the same time. These events occurred so quickly that all forecasts were, in effect, destroyed as hard as they were done, and we are proved to be true stories in a bit of limbo. The budget was delayed until autumn, as it was simply no sense of standing the last spring and guessing into the air. Though, my friend, my boy. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, claimed that uncertainty was abundant because of lack of financial plans during the summer, financial plans are set aside by uncertainty, which sets no limits for uncertainty. But when this happens, when all previous financial policies are simply missing other realities, we need to respond. Then I come to what I would like to point out in the end and arrange for the coming news. Five years ago, I was standing here, along with my friends in the left - handed movement, and I criticized this 7th par. handled public financial matters in particular, that it was too stiff. We warned that it would be of little value to reduce the pressure and harm to overcome the consequences of subtraction. I'd like to review the committee opinion I gave on behalf of the Party back then, where we even covered. that the conditions would not be acceptable, since the scope for the use of government funds, for rational management and fluctuation, is too narrow. We thought it'd be better to drop 7. Dismissing and setting in place an arrangement for each government at the beginning of its working time to set up goals in the same material in the terms of the government, such as that at any given moment. The chairman of the budget board went over earlier. At that time, the members of the committee showed that it would be better to connect the square line to the swing corrected angle, since connecting this pitch - adjusted slope could make the state's Fund a swinger. Of course, at the time this 30% standard was not based on international criteria, and the Maastricht criteria, e.g. the dose was estimated to be 60%. The debt - ratio rule, this 30%, thought we were too narrow and inflexible, and in itself there was no support for it. Then we discussed that from the perspective of social well - being, it would be right to let the debt target depend on government interest for a considerable period of time. As we have seen, both then and again, this requirement for a period of five years can function as a barrier to economic management; it is not a guarantee of balance and can even hinder balance as we may be experiencing right now. We also believed that five - year - old criteria were too short, since economic crisis could be much longer and a recession may still be present at the time, although the financial rule requires maintenance measures that go against the dominant state and so add to the contraction. At the time, we believed that financial laws would not have been suggested as a basis for economic management during the runoff period or in the leading phase of an imbalance, but they could be unnecessary to work on the consequences of recessions. That's just what we've seen going on. This was not presented in a void. Those of us who arrived here during the collapse years know how long it will take for the consequences of a down cycle to travel, for example. to the house, she doesn't bite yet. However, this government has reduced the bites by extending the income - related period and now last by raising unemployment improvements. We know how difficult it is to reach a prime balance in a few years. So it would have been a mistake to be stuck with a system that would have enhanced the impact of this downturn. That is why it is very satisfying for the government to change the rules so that we work out this massive downturn, this massive blow, in a wise way, using the national budget with full force to protect the survival of homes and businesses. That's how we're gonna turn around to get back. Icelanders are on their feet faster, we've already made it, and I believe we'll be quicker now than we've ever been, since we haven't had a gang bang and an inflation shot in the belly since that contraction. Because it is a wise economic government in the time of the Government of St. Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, we have a resistance that will lead to a considerable compromise of the state's funds. This is stated by taking it up to the next course and schedule, assuming that it will start at 2026. Of course, it is a future mouse and must see how it works. As we know, there is virtually little that we can predict and spit in this uncertainty period into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u46	Mr. President. The main focus of the bill we're discussing here, the change in public financial law, is to allow the total and federal debt laws, so-called absolute financial rules, not applicable for 2023/2025. In addition, because of the potential review of financial policy during the same period, it is being suggested that no special release from the law be required. In fact, it has been revised twice in the history of this government. The bill appoints a financial body to evaluate it in its terms on the interpretations of the resolutions for the coming year, i.e. on financial and financial policies, whether the declared objective of the government in public finance and its implementation will allow conditions to arise. restarting from 2026 C.E. We know that the purpose of the law on public finances is to promote good economic management and support the responsible government of public funds, as laid down in Article 1. The law. This responsible financial administration, guided by credible financial regulations, increases trust and contributes to the better financial standing of the public. Experience has proved the value of such rules, I think it's safe to say. It is also important that financial guidelines also contribute to a more conservative policy in the setting of up time so that there is an advantage for downturn. You ask yourself, " Has this government ever made an advantage for this downturn? ' I'm not exactly on it because we just see that according to the 2019 GPA, it's quite clear that the government was in a sort of denial of a significant decline in economic growth and that we were downturned. In terms of government accounts, there are overworks in government income of up to tens of billions. You wonder, " Is it over the head of a good financial management? ' It was to be clear that the arrival of tourists in the country was a significant delay. Then there will be a shock, there will be a failure in 2019, and there will be a failure of airlines for which man saw fit. Whether they've been through it or not, they saw what was coming with an airline that took 35% of passengers to the country. It was just in the maps that there was a breakdown of downturn, and as a result, less income was expected to be made for a trust fund. Nevertheless, as this government has been so busy in its terms and then with its independence party in the lead of business. I think it's safe to say that men did not have a balanced policy at a time of upcoming and that the era of that government has not been won. The nature of the matter, according to the circumstances, increases in tax revenues as well, allowing for a short period of time. Increased income is always accompanied by a loud demand for additional expenses. It is in the very field that humans must only be on the brakes, when they hopefully realize that income is decreasing and that the same is true of economic growth. In view of a financial body proposal for understanding the financial strategy for the years 2021/2025, it is stated that it is determined that this law, if the law, the new process and practices of financial legislation will be called upon to produce their opinions as well as those of the policy-makers. It is important to consider this law specifically as to the role of a financial body which is to evaluate whether financial and financial policies adhere to this so - called baseline law. It's interesting, Mr. President, to look at the reviews on the bill that came to the Committee. There were not many in themselves, but there are remarkable points. BSRB warnings e.g. so in his review of the bill that financial advisers will be held responsible for policy-making in terms of government affairs. You should agree with that here. The findings of the budget board are that there is a basis for these changes because of the conditions that have now developed in the Icelandic economy because of the pandemic of the Korean virus. The central category agrees that public financial games play a key role in the economic response to the worldwide economy. There is a need to replace the absolute financial rules of the law so that this important economy can be used as best in the present situation. That's especially why I, representing the Central Party on a budget, attend this committee. The middle class also stresses that the rules must not reduce the capacity of state funds to handle their assignments and serious challenges. A financial body points out that this is no concern for the sustainability of public debt. It is also variable because of the growth of economic growth and growth. These items may change, growth may increase, etc. We are still in the uncertainty, and we do not know exactly about economic growth. We don't know when tourists are coming back here to the country and life is usually going to run again. Hopefully, it will soon be a new year and will have some optimism about it because of the virus vaccines. It is noted that most countries plan to grow out of these economic problems and the consequences of the crisis. The Council also repletes its point that emphasis on positive results should not result in loss of property side of the public balance bill. Underneath it should be taken here. In this field, instructors have noted that financial laws must not be prevented from being attacked by important investments in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other investments that lead to long - term wealth and prosperity. The changes, in turn, can help to ensure more stability in the economic situation, which is one of the baseline financial and financial policies as set out in the government laws on government finance. I mentioned earlier, Mr. President, there were interesting points in the reviews that have been received at the bill. That's where I want to give you a review from the Professional Association. A chapter that bears the title: The mind must be credible. It states: A review of the current government financial policy raises questions about the implementation of the conditions found in the civil law. It is necessary to establish a financial policy that sets the criteria for success and is not a goal in itself. It is, e.g. the attitude of the public in a policy setting a certain floor that should not be covered, but there is room to produce better than expected. At the same time, the goal for a particular endpoint will lead to the failure of any policy which requires review. It works against the law's baselines, which are stable and firm. [...] In the end, repeated revisions undermine the credibility of the laws and plans of the public. This is a key and to bear in mind that if you want to reevaluate policy and the law, it naturally undermines credibility. At one time, a great deal of work was put in the preparation and contracts of these laws. In reality, this was not expected to require partial decommissionation of the law. True, the circumstances that we now enjoy are unique. They have smiled suddenly with the crown virus, and no one saw it. However, the fact that the dissociation warrant is extended by temporary legalization following the first economic failure that goes over the Icelandic economy after the law took effect also runs against the laws' aims of the law, and it also sets a dangerous example. These are interesting words presented here on the side of the business community and the value of paying attention to them. They continue to say that it is not desirable to compromise legal conditions only with the appropriate ones. Of course, it should be up to you. Finally, the review states: To maintain credibility, it is important to have the authority to deviate from the absolute goals of the law because of the need for such measures as this. The source must be responsible for maintaining legal discipline in public finances. This has been emphasized by the central Party, the government's financial management, which in many respects has not existed in this government. We have reasoned that this council has not been enough on the part of the government. It appears, for example. is being blown out of the mood of the Kingdom, and not to address the challenges facing them. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said that there is a bloody waste, as I recall he said, in the federal system when it comes to government finances. There are also serious words that need further explanation and that will be taken into consideration. But it has not been observed in the highest range. Secretary of finance. While there must be a lack of discipline in public financial matters, there is an essential flexibility in dealing with future events. - Under this be a whole mind. By setting aside the financial rules, the baseline values on public finances provide only guidance in this policy. It is important that the General and financial Council pay close attention to the fact that public financial production involves transparency and firmness. It should be noted that very close attention is now needed. This bill, if it's legal, is aimed at removing part of the law. The change in law calls for a change in the role of a financial body, as well as a change in government and General. In 2026, financial advisers will play a key role in identifying whether the government's declared objective is to re-enact the financial rule if possible. Mr. President. During the following years, it may be a challenge to maintain a wholesome economy in this country. The World Cash Fund has estimated that in Iceland long-term economic growth capacity is about 2%. So it will be a challenge to reactivated the rules in 2026 with realistic goals. In a financial program, however, the rate of growth is estimated to be about 2.5% in the long term. There are many things to be avoided in the coming years if all of this is to be done. I'd like to say here at the end, I hope we don't have to make any further room for this. Reports of a virus vaccine coming on the market give us the hope that the worldwide epidemic, which has caused massive global economic damage and the loss of natural lives, as we know and which is not measured, will not be further prolonged and its economic consequences will be diminished. We sure hope so. It's very important, even for the Icelandic economy. To say this, I thank you for the discussion because it's important. It is unusual to replace the rules and laws in this way. I don't think anyone would have predicted when the law was given that we would be in this situation. Similarly, it is proper to assume that laws are human activity, and they must not act against the rapid, successful recovery of the economy and the level of employment that they really need as soon as tourists come and the economy takes on a natural form. How important it is that we avoid obstacles! Of course, the state's budget plays a vital role in the future resistance, and it is part of this operation proposed by the government that good will be resisted. We in the Central Party have supported these operations. We've also come up with ideas, good ideas, other measures to take. Sadly, the government has shown no interest in them. Although she called for consultation at the beginning of these measures, she has not followed a single suggestion made by the Central Party but has made all of them down. That, of course, is sad. We've made that clear. It's hard to make some of this point. The media has, e.g. not very interested in proposals from the central class in this regard. We simply suggested to advertise them only in the media so that the public could see that we want to do our part in order to make the most of the work for Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u47	Mr. President. We are here discussing changes in public financial laws, especially conditions for total balance and debt ratio. As an officer on the committee, I support the bill. There are many words about the government's government's financial status, of the economic crisis we are currently dealing with, and I will, to some extent, do so in this brief speech. In substance, I agree, and agree with them by reviewers, that it is necessary to take the steps involved in changing these laws. As to the future, whether it is necessary to revise and rethink these rules all in view of the experience we are experiencing, both through much good, long, and much better, we should not forget it, and now the last major financial crisis that some say happens only every 100 years. It may be difficult to develop a rule that will cope with situations that are so rare, fortunately. We have under way emphasized that, through the economic crisis in this area, we support all the good actions of the government. Of course, we understood, especially at the beginning, that circumstances were in such a way that not all were perfect. However, as the economic crisis has prolonged, we have found that even though the government is not very generous, at times speaking in such a way as to control the situation, to listen to good advice, and to take it into account. I think it would take a very long and thorough search to find out where the proposals of the government have directly infiltrated the government's case. Certainly, it must not be denied, but in occasional cases greatly improved in the treatment of the council. The committees have made many good adjustments, and the government has not left its mark. It is said that it is difficult to control a crisis, but it is even harder to control in good health. I think there is some evidence in the present government that it did not fully control in good, unprecedented good, unusually long good times, right up until the 2019/2020 New Year's Eve. How remarkable it is, then, when you look back and see that once you look back in 2019 C.E., you were unable to keep your financial balance to a better degree! We need to deal with the problem now, but we too need to look to the future. As I've said before, at the trip we've emphasized that the ladder would be a big step right away, that the money would be placed where they needed most of this condition, and that there would be a need for people who have lost their jobs to earn a living. They have to try to do as much as they can to ensure that the most traumatic enterprises, especially for tourism, are in position to resume their activities when the tourist stream is restarted, but there is still much unclear about when it can be done. Just as we need to remember, the future may be a matter of being preoccupied with modern life and its problems. We need to do what we can do, including by preparing innovation; a economic growth company that could be attended in a foreign market, with their intelligence and services and products that could be sold from abroad and that could make a profit for society as a whole and for the employees who worked with those companies. Therefore, do not forget to prepare the future in a bold way to promote innovation and lay down funds that can help companies get better, and to examine their work environment. It is also vital that we consider how we will cope with the balance of the state, how we will cover debt, and how we will cover the cost. It can be expensive to owe, and although growth rates are very low at this time, it is very difficult to predict which interest level will be overdue. The more you owe, the more money is needed. The more paid on the increase, the less money will be provided for making lucrative implements, exploiting infrastructure, thinking about the future, and making sure that all the services we agree on are on the public circle. So I think that it is also very urgent that we think of examining strictly the entire state business, where to do better, what to streamline, where to achieve better efficiency without cutting service, and without going too far to put increased burden on the form of increased pressure on employees. This is what we have to do. In our restoration, we are convinced that there are many things behind us that we can do. We have seen very clear examples of how new and other solutions can be used to deal with many activities involved in everyday activities, business and other services, e.g. using technology, telecommunications, and so on. It is evident that good service, administration, cooperation - even committees can be carried out at the Council, you can imagine what is now needed - through this technology. There are many things you can do, and that is what we need to keep in mind for the future. We should not be afraid to ask ourselves, " What is the Kingdom assignment? ' Is everything that the State and the public are dealing with absolutely necessary? If that is absolutely necessary, we can ask ourselves: " Is it absolutely necessary for the State or public members to do so, or can these tasks be handled by private policy? Even it is possible to wonder whether they can be dealt with in some way by a government or not, as we have many examples. But, of course, there will always be nuclear activity and all kinds of activity that most of us agree to do with the public and not to argue about it. But we should not be afraid to examine these things carefully. I felt that it was right to enter the financial discussion, as if it were other reasons. Senators. To whom does a bird look beautiful to me, at least to me to the words of some who spoke, that everything is now very good and almost perfect, and that it might be thanked for how wonderful it was. I don't want to reduce what she's done well, but great she's not in my opinion, and there's a lot you can do better. But I'd also like to think only about the subject of the bill in terms of financial balance, debt collection, and the goal of stopping the debt collection 2025 and connecting the financial rules to 2026. I agree that it is vital that we set these goals and carefully aim to reach them. At the same time, we also need to be realistic, so it is vital that we regularly evaluate it, including, that we do so. gain financial authority new roles in these areas, how practical it is to reach those goals. It is a future and difficult to predict what it looks like, but there are many things to bear in mind. It takes e.g. keeping that in mind - if it is true, which I do not question, that the economic breakdown is of the magnitude of the fact that it comes up every 100 years - whether it can be handled with the same old partners as before and whether it is too much to achieve the goal of paying off the debt as quickly as it is suggested. I'm not quite sure about that. It may well be possible, especially if we succeed in promoting the economy with the strength and boldness that there will be a marked growth and a great increase in value that may result in the growth of society, exports, more and less relief from paying off these debts, said to be of interest, but not of drastic and major cuts. Of course, it is not good to quickly detract from the public service that is to be performed by law and to take major cuts. But that certainly does not mean, as I mentioned earlier, that there is no need to revise and examine the public activities and how you can do more. True, many are very well done, but there is always room for improvements and new thinking and new practice. We all tend to, and we know well at the Generals, to want to be in the same old bikes, and to be rather sad, if it is pointed out that what we do may be better and more efficient. Then they say: Yes, but this has always been done, and it has proved to be fine, and that is why it is impossible to change and improve. We must not have that thinking. I'm not saying he's the dominant member of the government. There are many signs to the air, and what is well promised will be done. A fine example is that of electronic management and its effort. There I think there's a lot more to do, to be successful, including to sharpen the ministry, to improve its availability, and to reduce expenses. I'm not going to have that much more words. The project, i.e. The bill, and what it contains, is worthy of all good. This, of course, raises questions about the arrangements for these matters. This raises questions about economic government in the past, and it raises as many questions about future economic management.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u48	Mr. President. I can agree with a lot of what happened. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson said just now, and I'm not going to talk as wide or far about this subject as it's been discussed in previous talks. But this may be the case with a talk. In the same way, a senator has received embarrassing financial funding on the part of the State, and often it is difficult to finance a project that is agreed on by all, and even concerned about costs for projects that everyone agrees on being a member of the community or private companies and others, often with the result that corporate companies get to make a profit for themselves on projects that all are at the same time agreed to be a community necessity. But when we're talking about the basics of society, it's really embarrassing to see that the state's work bad and somehow rolls it over to an enterprise, which, so to be honest, often connects someone in some way, so maybe it's not quite crystal clear what you would like. But that is not what I was going to discuss, although it would be possible to talk about the tendency of politicians to abandon responsibility and favor their neighbors indefinitely. What I wanted to talk about is that the earlier part of the discussion said that it may not be positive, and that people are trying to avoid it, putting some kind of political bitch into law, i.e. that government law should somehow be above politics, which is quite appropriate and positive. But that's why I think there's reason to point out that the birthday and debt rules are, of course, political rules, such as all the rules of public financial law. It may be that they reflect the politics that all or most of them agreed on when the law was given at the time, but it is based on political and economic claims rather than laws of nature, and it is important that we realize it. These are not laws of nature. Although this is a ideologies that are common and popular, it is a ideological decision that these rules are established in this way. They are by no means unconcerned. While everyone can undoubtedly agree that it is good to have some rules on how state spending should be and how it should take place, the rules set out are the rules and are now being taken off, based on a highly conservative interpretation of the highly conservative feature of economics, the New Testament economic teachings, some of which have been proved to be wrong. Keep in mind that this is the same ideologies, the same economic school, and has resulted in several worldwide collapses, some dozens if not hundreds of money markets, depressions, and constantly demanding the support of society's welfare and development. These aren't even the facts I'm referring to here. This is something that has already written quite a number of books about. What you may argue about is whether any other economic theory or other school of economics had led to a different, worse conclusion, and certainly there are schools that would lead to a far worse outcome than there are other schools that could possibly lead to a better conclusion, and they have been spoken a lot to them during the past few years, including. I have tried that out of weakness. To put it in the context of this discussion, it is talking about taking a few rules out and adjusting them to the fact that here we have gone through a tremendous economic crisis following a pandemic, and not just after a pandemic because it continues to exist and will be for some more time, so that the concordance of a pandemic (a pandemic) may be correct. When you're planning some kind of rule-work, when you're designing a system, the designer has a responsibility to think how the system will react if the criteria fail. If you're designing a system and you don't do it, I'd like to mean that the person is at best more willing and, at worst, guilty of a very serious form of delinquency at work. We have to design rules to cope with blows, to endure failures, to withstand the failure of the system to fail. When the rules are designed to keep only when it's good a year, and when there's a tremendous rise, you're making bad rules. As you look at the debt rule and the rhythm that are both based solely on the premise that there is endless growth and happiness here - it is very difficult to see and to see them differently - it is impossible to avoid the thought that there was a serious deviation on the road. Cutting them off now is just the best thing to do. But I just want to suggest that once we make it to the point where they might be taken back, maybe the job should be to design the system well, not just better, but better because it has been missing. We have had laws on public finances for some years now that have been designed by some kind of optimism that has never been right. It is now called an event that happens every 100 years, but it is not 100 years since the last global economic crisis in Iceland. It's just over 12 years, and if you think about how these rules were being done in that year, you can't see that we weren't in exactly the same position, cutting them off, and if we can't build rules that work for 12 years, why should we expect them to be right over our heads? What if we build them in the mind that they're only supposed to fail once every 100 years, which I don't think is a good system design either? I just wanted to suggest that we know, that it has been discussed in the literature for many years now, that the underlying basis for most economic theories that have come to the front of the government platform, especially in the Western world, let's say, three or four decades, is based on confusion that has been very often refuted. We can do better because we know better how these things work. If we don't do better now when we see this, when we look ahead to the problems exactly as they work out, then we're fools, and I really don't want us to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u49	A respectable president. Here was a Pirate agent for what? The Economic and Business Committee, and we're taking over Porta's representative for what he's doing. It's a legal committee. I'm going to give some of the exact same speech, perhaps with just other emphasis. We're discussing public financial laws. In recent years, I have talked much about applying the laws on public finances. They are more important than their present activity. We have often been explained that there are still various hooks and tickles of the law, and even their fundamentals, in my opinion, which include government policy, which should be cost, advantage and choice analysis of the government's tasks to support their claim that what is proposed is a profit - making and effective use of public funds. We set these rules and frames, for ourselves, for the government, for the execution of the authority. You see, it is essential that mental power is not in control of public funds. Like what? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy came in on these rules just for interest. When a contraction is made, everyone will run to, as was done here when a airline fell or the hairy band didn't find, reevaluating financial policy and disintegrating the plan. These measures are not carried out, such as in terms of cost-, cost-separation and choice analysis. Besides, we have rules that don't pass when we're under pressure. It's very important. I asked the Committee why only three years? The answers were that it was not credible to have no expiration date. That is not to say that what happens after three years, whether the rules remain unchanged, whether there are any other rules or not. You wonder what your credibility is after all. We're gonna do something in three years. Three years of compromising the rules in the present state is definitely something that I can agree with, in fact, that there is a very large review of how we conduct laws on public finances to make them work. We also need trustworthy rules, not like those we now have that seem to be relatively poor rules that will fail in times of trial. Having such rules gives us the appearance of credibility. Look at this, we have a firm and clear protection protocol for government debts. But experience shows that it does not matter when we are under pressure. They matter in interest, they regulate a certain government expansion that's just fine. When the opposite happens, it is entirely forgotten to simply consider an analysis of any potential situation. It's a bad system design. A risk analysis for deep depression and what it means for the rules you will be forgotten. Does that just mean we run the rules out for a little while? Is that the solution? That would be, for example. a total of the law can be replaced by this trouble, to take it out for a while, and then to do something about it in three years. It's just virtual credibility, and it's not something we can afford to do at regular intervals. After all, it is the General Assembly that can decompose when the project does not comply with official financial law, at least where their basis is in government policy. The Synod can put his foot at the door and say, "No, sorry, it's just gonna have to go back to you. You must return a better bill, a better conclusion, to the council for treatment. You'll have to, for example. Explaining why the Land Hospital business, as is currently discussed, costs this much or so little. Why do some 70 billion have to run the Land Hospital, and why are we merely putting 68 billion into that business? What for? What difference? I can't get an answer on a budget when I say there's a long list of legal projects to be carried out by every institution. I want to know what the cost is so that I know as a senator whether the legal projects that we have decided to be part of the activities of each institution alone to meet the rights of the public. What's the need for service back there? Why is e.g. so much expense, though there seems to be little need for service? The answer may be: Because they are weighty assignments, and so on, of course. We, however, see a waiting list back and forth here and there, and we do not ask: "Why do we have such a long wait list but so little money? Would it not pay to have a little more money to get rid of the waiting list or to have some waiting lists acceptable? Probably, but how long? We will never take this discussion. The key problem is that the government comes to our council with a budget or a financial plan, hangs up on the table, and says: "This is what we need. We ask, why? Then your shoulders just shrug and no answers. We get a lot of sources of information that give us a lot of interesting indications, but they can't give us a clear analysis of what the sources are because they don't have a transparency in budget and budget. As a result, the reviews are not very helpful to us at the council. So we don't have the basis to say: Well, okay, the situation is they're 10 billion short on this project, but the budget is up to 8 billion. This takes 2 billion more on the project or in some less expensive way. What happens? We call a client into a committee meeting to tell us what is in their review. When guests are finished and the government isn't prepared for suggestions on what to do, we just have to wait. We can't do anything, we don't have any grounds to resign, whether it's good or bad, or whether there's enough money or too much money. We're just waiting for the government to mention some amount. Then, when we ask, " Why this amount?'we ask. Exactly the same is behind the rules we're talking about. Why these rules? Because the ideologies say it's supposed to work this way. When you point to examples like these or fail over a decade and ask what to do, the answer is: We just run out the rules for a little while until it's convenient to have them back. This is not the methodology we're supposed to use here at the council, just not at all. In these days, when we are dealing with our present problems, we try them, as if it were. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy came in earlier, did things better, and produced rules that are not only trustworthy in interest of interest but also explain what happens if there's a financial crisis like it's now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u50	A respectable president. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Economic and Business Committee had this good bill for coverage. First, the aim of these laws is to prevent unjustified restrictions on Internet traffic and other discrimination based on nationalities, habitats, or established customers, and to promote network exchange across the European Economic Areas. Sometime last year, we had a comparable case on the Foreign Affairs Committee when these rules were being adopted in the EEA Convention. Here's a bill to follow through on it. As the committee's opinion of this subject has discussed the matter and was contacted by Heimir Skarphéðinsson, from the Directorate of Business and Development, Gunnar A. Ólafsson and The Heimir of Örn Herbertsson, Nova Inc. And Breki Karlsson and Einar Bjarni Einarsson of the Neythal Association. There were only two reports of the matter and were from the consumers' organization and Nova Corp. Then the commission also received a memo from the prosecuting and innovations department to respond to the comments made in the reviews of these reports. The bill suggests that the Icelandic right Regulation (EU) 2018/302 will provide measures against the unjust geographical boundaries of Internet traffic and other discrimination based on the nationalities of customers, where they live, or where they have confirmed their internal markets. So the bill suggests that a new total law of action against unjustification will be set up on Internet traffic, etc. Other aspects of the bill's content and objective are referred to in a series of articles. A review of the consumers organization calls attention to aiding consumers on the basis of Article 8. The Regulation agrees well with the role of the European consumer support (ECC) in Iceland, which is hosted by the consumer organisation. According to the Committee's review, the Ministry and the Neighbour Association concluded that this role will be assigned to the organization. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will remain unconvinced. Under this opinion write with me, or why. Óli Björn's Kárason, Chairman Brumur, Brynjar of Níelsson, Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Smári Mccarthy, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Willum Þór, son of Þórsson. Finally, to set this up in human languages, this should make it easier for Icelandic consumers to buy goods or services online and salesmen to do nothing against them or to say that they do not sell to certain parties or certain areas. However, sales agents are not obliged to be sent to the countries so that consumers will need them if they can find other solutions to their product or service. I believe, a respectable president, that this is a matter of interest, and it came to make a good impression in the review of the consumer League, which was very pleased with this bill and suggested that it be done at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u51	Mr. President. I just wanted to come into this business because I thought it was interesting, when we were going through the case on the committee, that the name of the bill is an arrangement for the unjust limitation of the Internet tours etc. But when it comes to the subject, as noted in the case of the individual. paritaprevir Just now, while Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's humorous acts just now, the problem may be primarily about consumer protection in a very limited area, and that is a very limited area in my opinion about the limitations of the Internet traffic per se rather more about how to do business when being practiced through a network. To the extent that it is the case, this is a good bill, and I'm at the Committee of the Economic and Business Committee and support the progress and the sooner the better. However, I would like to mention that this bill does not in itself address many uncertainty factors that turn into systems of systems to the extent that they can influence the lives of people in the community now that we rely on the Internet in our daily lives. Here I may be going outside the consumer protection show per se--and I notice, Mr. President, that I've begun to put out the words per se, a Latin, too much and I apologize for that. What's happening in Internet and Internet business systems, and just in general everything that has to do with network and computer systems is that we're looking up at a great virtual development on various services programs. Rather than, as was earlier at the beginning of the Internet, one computer that had a permanent place in the world, usually because the computer was up to some tons, we're talking about one to two computers that are located somewhere on earth, which may even change many times in an hour, and with service lying on the top which is really nothing but a software that can change and adapt and move to after an incident. In this way, the Service Holder could host something in this country for a moment, which would be left to Cambodia for the next few moments. This has an incredible potential, e.g. for the host to choose a location that has less cheap electricity or less cost on network travel or anything. However, this also provides opportunities for the operator to provide services from a place that is legally practical at a time and may even be most suitable for dealing with consumers. To make this a little more complicated, we are looking at the elimination of what was formerly called POTS, by permission of a president, or the Plain Old Telephone System, or the old good phone system. Instead, a digital or online telephone system, which we use in everyday language, is about 3G, 4G, and 5G, and then there are some digital telephone stations based on old cables but still digital in some way. That's what it's all about, as it came into place. ... ina review that we were contacted on the committee, that part of the telephone system that you may think is in a certain location, is not necessarily. When you get a call from the Icelandic number, with +354 first, you usually assume that you are doing that service, or that you are calling that phone call from Iceland. But there's just no guarantee, because we all know that we can take our cell phone to Italy and call from there and still have an Icelandic phone number if you have an old SIM card. But this can be accomplished in countless ways. Telephone service could be run in Chile, and it could still appear anywhere in the world. This will be reflected in the gradual transformation of the stage of the ministry. When we talk about the level of service, people may generally think only of the site you visit to do business or to purchase products or services, but not necessarily the same area of the server that runs under that service or server, the personal computer that is being run on, let alone the distinction between the underlying social network, http or whatever it is. I'm not trying to complicate this discussion. I'm just trying to show that it's in its very nature that it's complicated and consumer protection is all but a small part of what it's about. I have, for example, expressed the opinion several times that members of the council do not enter the way the Internet is built up and how it operates at this point is potentially as dangerous as that people do not enter the way deduction business was done just before collapse. It's a growing misunderstanding that's relevant to all of us, unfortunately. I'd like this to be simpler, but until we've made a proper system around this, there's a risk that these factors that could harm consumers and harm the public in all of this, e.g. with the limitations of Internet traffic as such but not necessarily some business barriers to saving or providing goods or services in the European Economic Area. These may be factors that will be the dominant factor in future judicial cases, may oppose commercial wars, even in some cases being the basis for opposing human rights. I'm not even sure that I have an imagination to visualize every possible way in which this can work out. But I think there's a reason why we at least be aware of and have a conversation that might happen, and this is something we have to be aware of. I'm not gonna keep this any further, just leave this encouragement. I know there's a lot of people out there. Senators have tried to make a good impression on this matter, but it's complicated. But hopefully we can continue to make good bills, as it is, and watch these from many sides; take up more sides on this matter, and hopefully give as good a legal guarantee as possible, considering that we're talking at the end of the day about a global communication system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u52	A respectable president. I asked for an answer when it happened. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy said he wasn't trying to complicate things at all. But he certainly did, for most people, I think, which is not very much in these matters. I just thought about it. A senator would certainly not agree with this approach here, but, of course, he writes under the commission and then said at the end of his talk that he welcomed this bill. As a matter of fact, just so you know, I remember it very well when we discussed this matter when it came into a Foreign Affairs Committee in its own time, on which this bill is so based. I think we have, in general, counted - and I even think that the Neythic Society wrote us a review of them too - welcome this very step. I know people in Iceland are doing a lot of shopping on the Internet, and many people have been in the habit of choosing something online, and all of a sudden they find out when they buy out that it says, "No, listen, I'm not selling you because you're in Iceland and don't take credit cards and stuff. Unfortunately, this does not change the fact that when it comes to shopping in American pages, this is, of course, just a legitimate protection on the European Economic Area. This, however, means that a German tourist agency cannot refuse to sell me a trip or a product. On the other hand, I may need to find ways to bring her to the country, since it is not required. I think it's very important that we get it figured out, and I think it's a big deal for consumers, so we have it all figured out. Hv. A senator also introduced something else, and if I understand correctly, he's also discussing Internet security here in general. Perhaps it is good to mention that we have a common meeting, a State Department of State and the Council's Environment and Transport Committee, on the Internet security issues this week because there is an important factor that we need to discuss. Hv. A senator described how these items can flow between here and mention the calls, so we rejoiced when the law to accept the drive that will be very helpful to Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Is this not a good case, and it is not a matter of discussion that we need to discuss in particular. Network security?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u53	Mr. President. Just to make it clear: I was really pleased with this case when it came into the Foreign Affairs Committee at the time, I'm very pleased with this bill because it takes on exactly the problem I've had myself in, and I know that many others have been in, being trying to do business with European parties through the Internet, and it turns out that they're not ready to perform service to Iceland because they think of us as out-of-year-lifes that don't matter. This is part of preventing it, and it is only natural to do so within the European economy and to stay out all over the world. But we got there later. What I was trying to discuss in my speech is exactly what this matter is all about, maybe it's not exactly what the name of the language implies. They're saying that e.g. can't limit access to Internet soils as discussed in the bill. First, though, it may be a little more difficult to cover what a grid surface is - something that needs two or three technicians to argue about. In addition, these ideas can be distorted about access to the Internet grid in such an amazing variety, and I feel that there is a reason for us as members of a council trying to cover it and find some way to remove this complex. I was not trying to complicate the situation, but I was rather trying to point out that the factor I was dealing with is really embarrassing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u54	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion on the bill to legalize the conversion of Congress laws, No. 39/1978, of the greater part of the General and Education Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Rún Knútsdóttir and María Dungal from Houses and Engineers' Office, Ólafur Sigurðsson and Helga Hauksdóttir from the National Department of Penservations and Jóna Björk Guðnas Guðnadóttir from the Conspira Corporation. The committee received reviews from Houses and Civilization Institutes, Departments of Pension Funds and financial organizations. By law on changing various laws to meet the economic impact of a pandemic crown virus, No. 25/2020, sr. Law No. 82/2020, including Article 6 of Council Regulation, No. 39/1978, who added an Annex to a book on the continuation of payment on individual or corporate debt for up to nine months, the same level of right effects as if it were announced as approved by later bets. The source was previously restricted to the ocial omission of the annex to March 16, 2021. The bill suggests that the demands of the crew take longer than that are expected to evangelize on the mortgages and/or increase to up to 18 months until 16 May 2021. Visitors agreed on the well - being of the warrant for both demands and creditors, leading to simplicity and greater efficiency. Then it would be important to extend the deadline, including taking into account the contour protection measures caused by the chorionic virus pandemic. The majority of credits to the fact that there is no burdensome authority and that demands that demands on the demands may provide temporary relief for creditors in order to face temporary difficulties due to the impact of the pandemic. So the majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. The person standing here was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion according to a warrant at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Hv. Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson were absent from the case. In addition to this reference work, there is no question about it. Councilmen Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir the Ármannsson, Silja Dög Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and Árnadóttir Þóra, Aarnadótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u55	A respectable president. It's admirable to hear how well the president handles numbers. This Council of Parliamentary Directive consults the Allegment to confirm for the European Parliament's Directive and Council 2017/1564 of September 13, 2017, on specific permission of specific tasks and other materials protected by authorship and rights in behalf of blind, visual acuity or those with other printing inhibitions and on the conversion of Directive 2001/29/EC on the compliance of certain aspects of the authorial and related rights in the information community, to be entered into the EEA Convention. Directive 2017/1564 of September 13, 2017 entered the EEA Convention on Decision No. 165/2020 aims to conform to EU legislation on special authorised tasks and other materials in behalf of persons who are blind, visually impaired or have access to the Maress Convention's regulations to facilitate the bioavailability of those who are blind, visually impaired or who are struggling with other printing restrictions. The covenant was adopted in Maress 27, 2013, and it is part of the European Union. The Directive 2017/1564 consists of a total of 13 articles and the target of the directive is set out in Article 1. for the children's condition where it says: This directive aims to establish further agreement with existing Community legislation on authorability and related rights within the framework of the inner market, by implementing regulations for the use of specific types and other materials without approval for blind, visual acuity or those who have other printing inhibitions. This goal will then be discussed in more detail in the first two books of the Bible. and 16,◯18. forewords of the directive. The directive is a part of the European Union's involvement with the Marine Convention, as discussed above. By implementing the directive, Iceland is also in a position to become a member of the Treaty, while several visual and lesbian stakeholders have requested that Iceland become an international party as soon as possible. Authoral law has to be modified. Council bill has been proposed to legalize the conversion of authors, No. 73/1972, with subsequent changes (requisite criteria for authors' private rights in favour of persons with visual and reading impairment), 136th matter at 151. I propose, a respectable president, that this discussion will be dismissed from the discussion with this proposal referred to the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u56	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize official support for innovation. The objective of the bill is to promote official support for innovation in the country by simple mechanisms, clear responsibilities, and strong relationships with university, career, and pasture. Emphasis is placed on the increase in national innovations, support for the innovations of high technology and research and construction education. It will be sought to establish priorities, to reduce surface development, and to enhance flexibility so that public funds will be most useful to the projects it is provided. The target will be met by the following measures, which include part of the bill but are also tasks already being carried out in the Ministry. As a result of increased emphasis on support to the pioneers and the start-up company in innovation, technology will be formed in cooperation with the university community. The Technologies will be based on the basis of bio and energy technology, the construction industry and part of the Agency's headquarters at Iceland's New Creation Centre. The bill allows for the establishment of an adverse participant on such a technical site where the state is owner, but the college level has a administrative level. It is important to ensure that the formal approach of the university community to the operations of the facility and that the university is actively involved in the development of the project. It is suggested that the Society supports the activities of the pioneers and companies in the field of advanced technology, engineering, science and related articles and is a site for research and development in these areas. A special focus is then given on the development of innovations in the country and to work effectively to set up a national task fund. The Agency is aimed at supporting innovation in cooperation with national, sectoral and knowledge organisations in the respective regions, thereby increasing the stroke potential of innovations supported by a rural programme, national parish programmes, and other focus products in the areas. This is a project that does not appear directly in the bill but is being developed in the Ministry in which such a fund is being established and better defined by the requirements and conditions to be supported by the fund. The Ministry will promote continued support for pioneers in the early stages, such as cooperation with both public and private bodies for training and guidance to pioneers. Emphasis will be placed on harmonizing and integrating such assistance to the activities of industrial development partners and clusters across the country. In addition, there will continue to be support for digital production or English, by permission of Presidents, ◯Fab Lab Labs, in various parts of the country, as well as support for innovation and the pioneers at all schools in cooperation with the Education and Culture Ministry and the School authorities. The bill provides the basis for continued research, education, information sharing, and information collection in the field of humanitarian activities and will base this activity on the basis of the construction laboratory. In cooperation with the Department of Social Affairs, projects in this field will be moved to the House and Civilization Agency, including a publication of the so-called Rb magazines, information sharing and data collection, as well as the implementation of the construction tests necessary to continue to ensure the integration of projects and services. The work of future construction projects will also be carried out by professional partners in accordance with international quality requirements. The market-based tests will then be left behind by private partners. A competitive building fund will be established in order to further research in this article. The fund is the co-work project of the social and child - care minister and the travel, industrial and innovation minister, but it will be in the management of the Housing and Mobilization Agency. This sums up the bill with a change in construction law, No. 160/2010. In addition, increasing integration and simplicity will be involved in public service in the field of employment. This includes: for monitoring services and testing requiring complex equipment and quality control systems and other support for job life and innovation. Chemical analysis at the Creation Centre will be combined with chemical assessments of the Marine Research Institute in order to achieve an increased integration, economy and improved quality of government-based services. In the bill itself, there is an additional substitution that allows the establishment of a private centre on the business of a technical facility, sharpening the minister's authority, and disposing the law of No. 75/2007, on official support for technology, innovation, and employment development, the legislation lays the basis for the activities of Iceland's New World Centre and the Agency's work on them. Then the bill suggests changes to other laws that refer to the New World Translation Centres, i.e. Laws on Building Products, No. 114/2014, and building costs index, No. 42/11987. At the same time, the legal role of Homemaking and Civilization Agency in research, presentation, education, and data collections related to construction and human activities is set up and a competitive fund is set up for such research. This will further stipulate the reduction of the New World Translation Centres and transport of the Agency's projects, staff rights and possession of the Agency as well. In terms of the personnel case, status values will be provided by the transport of tasks as well as by the technical centre for staff with knowledge and experience. Part of the Agency's staff has already moved to the centre and part of the rights to the clients and pensions when the Agency is laid down. Still, it cannot be avoided that some employees lose their job. If the bill is legal, the New Creation Center will end its operation on May 1. and until then, work will continue to be done on the move. It had initially been announced that the Agency would be submitted for an upcoming New Year meeting, but it was decided to move it to May 1, so that successful implementation of projects, the implementation of study contracts, and the provision of time for staff and management could be extended. Mr. President. In recent years, the environment of Iceland has changed, and the bill takes account of it. Iceland's innovation centre has played an important role in the interest of employment and innovation since its creation in 2007, and it is responsible for this important work. By the bill, we are setting priorities for career and community activities in harmony with innovation policy. During the past few months, we have been working to reevaluate the role of the Agency and find a part of her new home in another business project while other projects are to be stopped. It is natural to develop in the developing environment of innovation here and in accordance with the development and grounds of commercial life that the government regularly reviews the institutions with the aim of the public support of a member of the community. It is my sincere belief that the changes proposed in the bill, with the work that has taken place in its preparation, will benefit the environment of the modern world. A respectable president. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u57	A respectable president. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. It's a budget. They're asking a few questions about innovations. It was a very long list, but last time they asked for information on the bill to be financed for 2021 and a financial plan, i.e. the increase in administrative costs and contributions to innovations. The answer to increased donations for innovation is well worth it. Well, they're being increased. However, in connection with the decomposition of the Institute for Creation, the minister said that this led to efficiency and loss of administrative costs. The result should increasingly be the route of the project. That part of the answer was simply released. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister, simply out direct: Is there an analysis that these changes, being done by decomposition of Iceland's Institute of Creation, lead to practicality, less administrative costs, and better service to those who are emerging? Is that a diagnosis?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u58	Mr. President. First, just to make it perfectly clear, this decision is not made on the basis of a practical requirement or somehow controlled by my will to be practical. The task leads to our setting priorities for projects that we believe the State should step in and do. That makes it more than 700 million. K. ... whichwillgo into the New Creation Center every year, about 300 million. K. after this task is finished. I suggest that they are actually returned to the state funds. Of course, there are a lot of work to do in a new location, which involves additive effects, to form by transport to the Homic and Engineing Agency. There we are simply putting the jury in one place that I believe will improve his whole position. The same is true of other tasks that are simply going to a new home. We're making a deal with a Meritional Research Institute, one that already has a set of tools and knowledge. I think it's both very helpful and will also produce further additive effects that I feel are part of. This is not a specific analysis other than the financial status of Iceland's Institute for Creation. We leave money with the work that goes to a different location. We're not moving jobs without money, so it'll take on projects that are already in the management system. There is no other diagnosis but that we watch the funding that is already going to the New World Translation Centre. The performance of projects, and, of course, new projects that have to be started, will be 300 billion. K. which, in turn, go back into the state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u59	A respectable president. I asked exactly if this diagnosis exists and the answer was, that I believe, quite clear: No, it doesn't exist. It exists only in terms of the financial situation of the New World Power Center itself. The reason I ask is the highest. One of the reasons to be put into the work of laying down the New World Center of Iceland, distributing projects, etc. is that it would lead to lower administrative costs, which would make more room for setting up the funds saved to the projects below. That's why I'm asking this. We're shifting administrative costs from one place, which is in Iceland's New Creation Center, to many other places, certainly with some consistent effect, etc. But I was asking who the same sign was between. What if there are 300 million dollars in administrative expenses for the NMI, what are the costs for all the other responsibilities? I ask because, in the explanation of why it was being dropped, Minister of Creation said it was to save administrative expenses. I haven't seen any evidence that it's true. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u60	Mr. President. I don't know if I'm somehow mistaken. A senator or whether he is, deliberately or unintentionally, turning his back. There is obvious economy within the administrative board when we can continue our work and give them financial support. We send them to a new location. Rather, we bring them to a new location the funds they have gone to. We lost administrative cost 300 million. K. That's the economy. What I said in my first answer is that we don't go on this project with the sole goal of being able to return 300 million. K. Into the state fund again. The project is to set priorities, stop those whom we believe the State no longer needs to care for in certain areas, and move assignments to better places where I believe they will last. And we're going to let the budget go. All of this leads to 300 million. K. Sit down. I made the decision not to find new jobs to make use of the money but to return it to the state funds. In the context of all the other decisions we have made, which have included a tremendous increase in support and funds from the state's fund in all kinds of innovation projects, it involves the 300 million turning towards the New Creation Center in Iceland. K. Probe within the administration. We do not expect the cost to be increased at places where the projects have been carried, but we are expected to bring the money. Of course, that is the cost, and this is done in cooperation and conversation with institutions that accept the assignment. There is an analysis and a conversation between those who accept the project and us who are taking it across, cost analysis, synergistic effects, benefit analysis, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. As we have seen, Technologies of Technology play a key role in the support of innovation in the region and is, in fact, the branch of the State Fund to support technology development in the country. Therefore, the legal basis for this fund is that we can take advantage of resources and resources and stand equal in other nations, livings, based on the basis of the industry's production industry and new Icelandic intellectual capacity for reaching global market targets in individual articles. That is the natural purpose of all of this, being very noble and enjoyable. But I'd like to go to pars only 1. It discusses the role of the fund, and it may be found in this expression, but it's not here. But there's especially one point I stopped a bit. Regarding the role of the fund, it says that it should strengthen the structure of sceptres and be involved in the early stages of innovation. Here comes what I think needs to be explained better; the fund cannot be an independent donor for innovation in the country at the same time as its owner for particular wand projects, i.e. That it is in the early stages of innovation. As a competitive fund, he is likely to have to work as an independent and objective provider of applications in his fund. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: When the fund itself becomes part of the project, are there not there a clean, direct conflict of interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u62	Hv. Senator. There's a President in some kind of trouble now. Was the senator referring to the 19th session? [[Up front.]] - No, he's no good. 20, so it's not now a part of the program, so we may not be able to give up this counter. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[To the point: I'll just take it back next time.]] Take it back next time. It's nice to hear it again. [[To the point: Always nice to see you.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u63	Mr. President. We're discussing innovation and the changes in the structure of the facility, and there's been some bold suggestions on the change in the language that is involved in official support for innovation and technology. As to building research, I'm just going to review my concerns. We've been discussing this and related matters here together in the Assembly Hall, me and the highest. Minister. I'm still ambiguous when it comes to the changes, because I view the construction research that has been going on at the New Creation Center as a basis for research in community use. They even spin. Of the others, I am afraid to say everlasting molds that afflict housing, and so on. on concrete research and concrete development, which has been very remarkable, even on a global scale. I'm in itself glad to see that if this change, if it happens to be a collapse of the New Creation Centre, the construction research will be saved at Homeland and Engineing Agency. That's good, considering that they're practically orphans if they were private alone. But funding is already the key to national construction research, and it is a matter of how well competitive funds can handle these funding, their share, because they are only in charge of a section of financing. For public members it is 80%, and for engineering agencies it is 65%. It seems to me that in basic research or their funding, I call for a very high degree of stability, with governmental contributions simply. The majority of the nation's funds are concealed in buildings, and research related to them needs to be done carefully. What I'm referring to here is that there's a guarantee of financing for what I call the root research, such as the mold research, and the meddling of a job. It is not only the waves that go in agreement with competitive funds but also the cohesion of this work and the guarantee of financing for coordination and cooperation within this large area of construction research. There are, as everyone knows, universities and engineering agencies that come in there. I feel like there needs to be some co-star there, and there's supposed to be this department in the House and Managing Agency. It can work with planning and proposals and conferences and, of course, with its own research, ensuring that basic information is available online and in other ways, i.e. The order of manual booklets and of all relevant information about these studies. This is what I want to say about construction research. Then we come to what's going on under the nickname Elo, of the New Creation Center, which is chemical, biological, and energy technology. There has been a short period of time, as far as I know, 15, 16, 17 people at work, and their role is to support important basic research, share in some of them even, and share in development projects in cooperation with companies that have consulted them. So this is a part of innovation. I just want to point out one piece of work I've been doing myself, which is a very precious and remarkable basalt of Icelandic rock, which could be the subject of a very important industry in Iceland. Biomechanical studies have been conducted, e.g. In terms of the economy system called and energy technology, there have been research and work related to energy exchange. I'm not going to spend any more time tracking this, but what I'm going to do, Mr. President, with this figure, I'd like to say that a new company in a greater part or full owned by the state does not automatically guarantee this activity and money to her. The competition funds are certainly relevant here, as in building research, but it's a question of whether there's a scholarship to such ohf. companies have not shown that it's definitely lower than any other country's population. I don't think the competitive fund sees these two different shapes, i.e. A clean state agency and an ohf. company are in the same eye and there's a considerable risk that such an ohf. institution, not a company, so I'll tell you right now, has less chance of sponsoring the competitive funds than a powerful government agency. Also, international grants are less relevant to hf-products than to the state's institutions. It's simply because it's predictablely low self-finance, low property, and low-own money that a prospective technical agency will have, natural. So I simply ask: Can't you rethink this arrangement a little better and cooperate with the professionals and the professionals at Iceland's New Creation Center to get better across the financial side of these research? It's very important. Of course, private companies and universities, etc. continuing to do these tests, but the same way with the construction research, I feel like there's no stairway. Then there's the advice to the pioneers. I'd like to point out that there's something else that raises questions, including... If private workers are to be counselling to pioneers who are taking the first steps, it is a question, Is it possible that the prices of the private people are not to disqualify these pioneers from taking the first steps? New creation centres have been given up to 1,000 inquirys about initiative projects, so let's put it this way, every year. It has often been less than close to this number, up to 1,000. This suggests that it is necessary to keep a sponsor for the first step that is very cheap or free of charge. That's what I'm trying to say. I feel that the State can guarantee it, and I simply ask: Isn't that right? Is there any contradiction that a part of this counsel will remain in the hands of the State? I don't think so. Then I'd also like to point out that I don't feel quite clear what will happen to the organization of pioneers all over the country. Well, it's an important community and employment policy, as we know. I can raise questions, as if any link be made to the places of knowledge, which are around the earth. Could it not be explained better, preparing for a suggestion to plan how the cohesion and assistance of pioneers throughout the country will be established? It also needs to ensure that there will be coordination and contact with the founding centre of the industry because they have become a few. It's started in Iceland. There has to be some coordination and communication between them, and it could be in the hands of those who would provide assistance to pioneers in the first steps. This is some of the things I'm worried about. I must say, Mr. President, that I am concerned with my concerns from the platform and at the same time a lot of experts who have been in touch with me, too, in view of the innovation policy we can pride ourselves on being placed for the first time, and is progressive in my opinion. After all, there are two roads ahead of us now. This bill is being recycled in the Ministry to some extent by sufficient consultation or by a Senate committee, please. Work committee, put a lot of work into explaining things about this bill. But either way in Iceland, I feel that it has to lead a predictable way - I'm beginning to explain better - so that technology research and innovation in Iceland is very high because we have a great need for it in Icelandic society now, whether we talk about before or after Covid. I think it's our job at the council to make sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u64	Mr. President. We're discussing official support for innovation, a very important subject. Thank you. The senator here, who was all right. The government in its 2017 treatise tells of the importance of innovation: ▪ Trends and the practicality of intelligence are an important basis for a wide variety of employment life, a strong competitive position, economic growth and welfare of nations... It's all very noble and sounds good. But then the government covenant also states: The government will work to make the conditions of the country's pioneers and sceptical companies excellent. It also says that intelligent individuals are the most important source of innovation, and here it is to be taken into consideration. Under those words, the government might think of promoting the work of intelligent people and preparing them for an adequate work environment. Mentalists and pioneers have a two - sided MNU, which represents the UNH organization of pioneers and inventors, as well as the CHENN, the Neo - creation association of women. These fine communities operate in the spirit of the goals set by the government and its ministers in these quoted statements I read earlier. So these communities must expect to be supported by their Kingdom assignments. They have carried out many interesting and varied assignments, including some of them. For disability, for development, and for such. But the point is, these associates have twice been denied government strength. In 2013 the budget was highest, but then it diminished, and in 2017, the Ministry of Neoplasms has completely denied them strength. There is no logical basis for this. I want to ask you why. Senator, I don't know if he knows the matter specifically, but isn't this completely wrong with what has been said here, specifically stated in the government covenant?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u65	Mr. President. I'm just taking my position as Minister and Commission. I think it would've been nice if you hadn't. A senator asking the highest. Minister. But I agree that this government has set out its goal that this will be an outstanding environment of innovation and that it has now done quite a lot in that state. I don't want to list the Kristian Fund and the New World Fund of Students and the Neon Fund for Health Services, and the Neon Fund for Food Products, and the like, because they could crash. A senator claimed that we had not done enough. Yet, it is that these funds exist and now likely divide hundreds of millions, if not over a billion. A new creationism is introduced for the first time, which is very progressive for me. In Iceland,kins cohesion is promoted and cluster policy is being introduced, which is a key factor in innovation, with a significant contribution to technological development fund and the competitive fund over the head. It has just been done through the Ministers' Scientific and Technical Cooperation Committee. What's under here are changes in organization. I considered the importance of being well - looked at and felt that a minister put in a bill that would be a clue to it, but that it needs to be revised or made better on a committee. Almost commending the existing governments for innovation or assistance to innovation, I cannot make it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer is to review the importance of innovation and the funds he mentioned here, and of course I agree with that. But I'm afraid that e.g. By establishing this new fund, which we are discussing, the Technical Development Fund, is actually turning away from the fact that monotonies, if we can say so, in the fields of innovation will be allowed access to this patient funds that they need in order to care for their innovations. There are large people around this fund, rich universities, and others. It only shows that there are small stakeholders that are important and have done a great deal of volunteer work, have been accepted abroad, such as KENN, the women's company in innovation, etc., that it is being subsided in support of these groups, which I am deeply concerned about, and feel that they are totally at odds with what is being done here on innovation. It is important that the importance of innovation is spoken of, especially in these difficult times. That's why I wanted to share it. Because of what? I've had this conversation before with the U.S. Marshal. Minister. There was little answer, but we often want to be when asked by ministers. But I am stressing the importance of caring for this group. It is a small group, but it does an enormously important work, including some of them. Communication with those who are starting a innovation provides guidance, but talks and other important items.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u67	Mr. President. Support to pioneers or support or cooperation with pioneers is a very complex process in itself, simply because pioneers are usually extremely long-term activities, i.e. The time from the onset of an idea to the onset of some product may take between five and ten years. So we're talking step-shift, which starts with help at the beginning, for example. The innovation center has been providing, and hopefully others will cooperate with the pioneers themselves. Then there are competitive funds that could be collected and promoted. Then come the companies, the Startips, and a number of the things that have been practiced today, conferences, or meetings where companies are connected. It is important because, yes, it is part of the budget. Money is not everything that comes to new life, so far from it. It's just what matters is that investment banks and companies come into it. Then there's the pioneers themselves and the clusters that also come along, so I can totally agree that it's desirable for them to be the pioneers. A senator was complaining about not getting enough money, was further strengthened. However, looking at the many paces of a rocket, it is not surprising that there is no balanced balance between financing and financing to all of these because there is a strong responsibility to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u68	V.E.G. President. When you read this bill and pay attention to it, you might think that the idea of being born in a meeting at the Independence Party meeting, where people have had a recipe for government companies that would be a good thing to lay down. Men had a black pen and covered some organizations that were not at home or that were acceptable to them. This issue does not seem to be deeply thought, and it may seem that somewhere in the world, it is a sign that it will reduce the value of laying down a government agency that has a fine reputation and instead of a private partner. It may well be, in fact, the use of ben at the State's property. It may well be that somewhere in the world it is a sign of success in reducing the booth. But we platoons don't think so. I'd like to read here from a recent resolution adopted at the Central Party International Assembly the other day. The conclusion is no. 10 and the importance of innovation. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The category loyally supports all developments and innovations. The Central Party, however, believes that the existing network of employment and innovation ministers for public support for innovation, which includes bringing down Iceland's New Creation Centre, is prepared without adequate analysis of the provision of public funds for research and development and without adequate comparisons with comparable systems in other countries. In addition, this is done without adequate cost analysis of the planned changes in the field of technical research for the future and the activities of essential laboratory institutions. They need a professional analysis on where Iceland's key opportunities in technical and energy research are and without a plan for targeted support in this area to maximise the effectiveness of government contributions to technical research and innovation in the near future. Therefore, the central category feels that it is wise to postpone passing over a bill until the results of such diagnostic work are available. Now I say again, Mr. President, it may well be that somewhere in the world, it feels like it's a great idea to put down a well-dressed government agency and replace a private part of the government and to think that it's reduced blundering by increasing solidarity and by increasing transparency, and I don't know what. But that which has happened first should be taken into account. We have tracks to be afraid of. We've taken a government firm and turned them into partners. Governments, and then I'm talking about the Generals, at the same time, have lost almost all access to these companies, with regard to management, monitoring and anything. We have very bad examples of these things, which are recent, as well as those that are old. I'd like to mention one company, which is a part-social firm, which is here three blocks away from building headquarters on the most expensive property in Iceland, which is twice as much as the Agency needs and is in a place where such activity does not need to be on, on the most expensive property in Iceland. But while it's the same institution, I'm talking about Iceland's Lands Bank, selling a very good house on Selephoss. I want to know that there is a very good transport between Seleucus and Reykjavík. A number of people from the area around the world are attending work in Reykjavík. Now the National Bank headquarters can stand anywhere. They could be at the Redfarves, and I'm not minimizing the Redfarves, it's a very good and pleasant and beautiful place. The only thing that could interfere with the operation is computer communication. If they were all right and transportation would only be improved, it would be easy for Iceland's Bank to have headquarters there. And so, Mr. President, I'm telling you, I'm not used to laying down this institution, which, in fact, means that in a very quick way, and putting in it funds from state funds, stocks, unless you're going to have a minimum of 500,000 bucks., it's possible, it's possible, it's gonna come to light afterwards, and change the device into a private body. Since such experiments have been carried out in Iceland, what happens during the first hours is that the pay of all managers is rising substantially, usually in excess of the general pay raise. The pay costs in these companies are rising substantially. Also, I cannot quickly see that such a well-validised government agency should be laid down in such a short time that there was a very flat staff; it does not seem to have been given any evidence to the staff that it was there. In a summary of the bill, Mr. President, there are a number of factors that in themselves do not quite fit in. On page 18. 12 says, with the permission of the president: ▪ As mentioned earlier, the Agency was created by government law on research, innovation, and employment development, No. 75/2007, with fusion of the Industrial Technology Agency and the National Research Institute for the construction of the Agency. Right now, Mr. President, we're supposed to take a lot of work from the Research Institute of the construction industry and put it in the new Housing and Mobilization Organization. There is no knowledge there. Then you have to move those same employees who lose their jobs over there. I pondered the practicality and then comes a pearl, a little lower on page 6. 12: The activities being carried out in the residence of the Synthetic Institutes of Cavenahol and the support of pioneers and sceptical and innovation companies in the area of high technology should also be based on clear property and responsibility. Is transportation this rough west of town up to Köldnaholt, Mr. President? Now I'm looking at the greatest part of the city line in Iceland that will probably be very happy that this is how it will be, but at the same time, people are building up a system, a predator, for which there is no money to move people between these same towns. These activities in areas where the potential for enlargement is fine - no, they should drill it into the depths and thus squeeze the airport where these same people hate because transportation is not the same as transportation. But that's another story, Mr. President. On page 18. 12 also says: Then, too, various projects of the New Creation Centres supporting innovation in the country could be linked to national and sectoral application programmes and infrastructures and infrastructures. You're absolutely right. But then I'm going to tell you that if you don't come flying into town, it's gonna be much easier for you to go down to the downtown city of Reykjavík, just so that it's said, if you want to increase your personal acquaintance after this plague is over. Mr. President. I feel that this bill was composed in a hurry, and I am, for example. questions about it -- I might find the answer below from the highest. Minister, it seems to me that she wants to come up against me, which I celebrate - that consultations or contacts have been made with the National Institute of State, i.e. Negotiations. Have they been consulted? Have these programs been introduced to pioneers, active pioneers? Somehow, it's up to me. There's a nice saying west to America that Iceland and I should sometimes follow: if it works, don't change it. Here I think we have an example of something that has worked properly but now has to lie down on the block because at a meeting at the Independence Party meeting, someone has had a list of organizations that could be crossed out to reduce the booth. There have also been various ways to reduce paperwork and writing in Iceland, e.g. by laying down the law of the sale of cars, by something that was to be grossly unacceptable, and by moving shops with used cars down to the jungle level again. But to argue with something that's important -- no, there's no courage to do that, Mr. President. That courage is not to be found in a recession at the Independence Party meeting, it is clear. That is why such decisions are made and instead of putting down some of them to build a new booth, called ehf. And I'll be on government account, that's right. But this, I think, is a mistake. I talked to one of the biggest pioneers in Iceland the other day. He said to me: When Iceland's start companies come from childhood, even with a product or a fully developed idea that just needs to be implemented, they are usually sold to foreign countries in large ways. Why? Yes, it is because this source of assistance to pioneers and those in innovation appear to be in good condition, including those in the first century C.E. Because of institutions like a Second Creation Centre. No, what happens then, when the companies get caught up, is that there is no financial payment available to them. Icelandic banks, including two state banks, do not lend credit to such companies, which means that companies need to look out for funding. As a result, these companies move from abroad, they move from country to country, and in exceptional circumstances there are some work centers. I would have thought, Mr. President, now that we have to give more support to Icelandic employment, and everyone agrees to do that, at least in a word, people would think about it. The following day, the prime minister was always talking about something green, green, and green, but there's nothing behind it. They are political stickers, and stickers of politics are inexpensive. There was no real proposal for anything. It's like this, it's supposed to increase technology in Iceland, increase innovation and increase the production value of those who do this. It's just said at solemn times, but at the same time, the agency that these same people turn to is crawling, and they don't know what to replace, except ehf. It is not clear at all, nor is it clear how it should function, at all. Economic savings - no, he's not here. Methane economy - to a minimum. A better service - it may well be that the service is improved when the phone is answered by the expression "The New Creation Centre " in Iceland. Instead of the Second Creation Center over the head. I'm not quite buying it, but it can be, maybe it is. If you think it's only much cheaper to keep a good service course for the employees there and now to be thrown out with little or no notice. I would have thought, Mr. President, that it would be a pleasure, as our Middle Class decree says, to keep this for a while. Prepare better, perhaps contact the clients, pioneers themselves, examine their feelings for the Agency, and the possible changes now to be faced before starting into the uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u69	Mr. President. There are some questions I wanted to ask you. Hv. A candidate uses many parts of his talk. I don't completely understand the context of the government's ownership of the Lands Bank, but I'm willing to discuss how good it is to sell banks. Hv. A senator claims that he does not see the savings. He's still 300 million. That is the case, and I've decided to return money to the government fund. The work that continues is that I know that it will expand into a new place. We are putting increased weight in some of them. There is a synergistic effect, there is increased efficiency, there is a streamline adjustment within the system where we are setting up the work where the language category at home will benefit them. I don't know if you're supposed to answer it over your head, but I'm not sure. A senator assumes that the decision is made because the Agency has not been approved to me. I just want it to be here on a piece of paper how far-fetched a conclusion that is and my mind is humiliated by why. A senator to think so. Iceland's innovation center is a powerful organisation with powerful staff who have done their work well and lovingly. The project is all there is to it. It is minor to approach the matter in such a way. Hv. One senator said that employees were not given a signal. That was exactly what was done in February, and it has been criticized on the other side since we had taken that time. That's because I wanted employees to hear about these plans and be involved in the work that lay ahead. There is an interesting conclusion from the Central Party that it would be nice to listen to this, that because officials have not achieved enough analysis, government agencies cannot be laid down and the booth reduced. It is good to know that when the Central Party is given the opportunity to do what he says he does and at times write articles about them, the answer is always: No, it is not possible. [[The president calls.]] But the fact that companies are getting money from abroad isn't bad. If you say that Technical Institute, an idea and project that has been discussed for 20 years, it's not. [[The president calls.]] But the connection with the Bank of Lands and these factors, I don't quite understand. It would be good to have further explanations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u70	V.E.G. President. I'm so happy to hear the answer. It is very easy to point to a probability at Iceland's National Bank Corp. The probability is that when a company owns the state, the hold they enjoy is reduced and they go their own way. That's why I mentioned what's probably one of the greatest wastes in the modern history of Iceland, building headquarters for this state of state in Iceland's most expensive place, ergo twice as big, and thus entering a tenet. It's totally new to me that there's something special progressive or novelistic that a state-of-the-art business is in a rented market to compete with a private company. It's totally new to me that it's really cool. You see, I completely agree with the highest. Ministers that this institution is a huge fleet, and I think I said it a few times in my speech that it was well-cool. Yeah, well, it's got a nice staff that's done a lot of hard work. I agree completely with you. That is why the Central Party is opposed to putting it down lightly or - without thought. It's not too complicated to explain. That conclusion I read earlier, I expected it to be the highest. A minister would take the fact that the Central Party wouldn't do anything when it should be done down the booth, and I can quite reiterate the opinion I said earlier: No, I don't feel that losing the legal value of a car sale out and making it more insignificant for the customers. I don't think it's some kind of model for me to pull over. But if you do some serious work on this, it is not on the central category to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u71	Mr. President. We're here on the bill of the travel, industrial and innovation secretary for official support for innovation. This is a bill that has been a little understatement, and some groups have strong opinions on it. The history of official support for scientific research in Iceland is not long. Official involvement in the scientific and research work of the present film began with the establishment of the Research Council of the State in 1940 and Science Fund in 1957. The history of Iceland's New Creation Centre goes back to 2007, united with the Industrial Technology Agency and the National Research Institute for the Building. It now seems to be in the middle of a New Creation Center, flying away, and leaving the ground and ashes scattered in the open field. Tens of specialized workers go in other ways, lose their jobs, out of six who have worked in the country, most of which were 13. This is very, very sorry. The joy of this bill is from the fact that we are now looking at the important task of innovation. It is a key concept in today's society, a fundamental factor for an independent nation that aims to promote well - being and to create its citizens with a better life, a life like what is best known among world society. New projects, new subjects waiting around the corner. Technology goes forward, and we look at transformations in various fields, and we talk about the fourth industrial revolution with explosive effects in artificial intelligence, cooling techniques, self - destructive cars, self - efficiency, and other things that will likely cause widespread social change in the coming years and decades. Where does the Icelandic government go? questions are asked, and the answers are not convincing. They're on a adventure mission. The minister of tourism, industry, and innovations say that everything is happening, that the market is fertile, that the market waits, that private people can take in a substantial part of the specialized, coordinated, important, and challenging tasks carried out by the New Creation Center. I'm a very fond private enterprise. It has the power, courage and power and a great force for initiative and action. That's really supposed to be what we're supposed to do. But everything in its limitations and in various areas is to be combined to shape policy patterns, to keep up with important aspects of research and infrastructure, long-term projects requiring interconnection and social responsibility, where it is important to collect experience and expertise and to engage in scientific research, which are key elements in innovation. These are important things. There are many exciting things happening in this area in Iceland, a variety of sceptres and smells that make good promises, or if they get soiled and established. This should be what we should focus on in a practical way, through evolution, as well as on controlling these matters. New creations in the country are enormously important to me, but at the same time it is fragile and of particular concern. If I just look at my own ideal, which I don't do by chance, individuals and groups have managed to attract themselves in an awe - inspiring way into innovations, though their external circumstances are much more than their own. On Skaga Beach, for example. A active marine bioengineering site based on research into the biodiversity of the Gulf and has all the potential for growth. Mixedose helps to identify interesting food development projects, and exciting possibilities are linked to data sets. Western Huns'Summit has a high level of fermentation and innovation in tourism and various tasks. A sheep's diet is a great deal of ambition to develop various types of goods that will be created at the seaside, and this also applies to agricultural products. The business of Keresis is growing rapidly, a business that makes a valuable product of fishing for foreign markets. At Ac Aranesp and at Isquill, the company, Skanggur 3X, has developed high - tech products in the food industry. These are just few examples of people's potential for coping with the future. There is no lack of interest, skill, and knowledge in the local people. These are probably all examples of projects that I believe that the New Creation Center has established at one or two levels in the history of these companies. Most spherical companies have at some point been given financial support, research and development funding, by means of the New World Translation Centres. If the benefits are available, people will rush to the country. But our public bodies, the government, are creating a general basis for the growth of innovation and should take into account the circumstances of distances that are considerable and costly to obtain resources, if appropriate, and for the market. This is a special concern, how these procrastinators get to run around the country. The idea is to think of what governments really do about the importance of this aspect, especially that of innovation outside the capital area. It is quite different with innovation, science, and development in the region, or here on the southwest corner. But there is no secondary factor that the wands reach and thrive in this regard throughout the country. In its long-term, long-term innovation centre has a 13-year life span of the institution. It is not long. It is given free counsel to donating pioneers and wands all over the country. As noted by whiskers. A speaker earlier, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, has taken up to 1,000 annual guidance requests and has been an extremely important source of support. All this work, all this guidance, guidance, guidance for the first steps, sacrifice, and the country's settlement will be ill - mannered on this one. Even round business in the capital area is frightening. This is serious in our time. This is a serious operation. Experience has already shown us from the crisis of 2008 how important such service is for society, this community that is trying to achieve a strong and rapid response after an ongoing setback and how much it can create. A new creation center has supported small starters with knowledge and research guidelines. There has been a significant increase in the position of national companies looking for this way, and the difference is large, since it also brings a lot of travel costs to seek the assistance of key strains in Reykjavík. New creation companies in the country also say that their credibility is sometimes questioned even because it is distant, not having the same network as the company in Reykjavík. That is why this guidance, the guidance of the New World Translation Centres, is so valuable to them. A respectable president. The number of government workers in the country has decreased, and this includes this sector, e.g. About a new creation center. In recent times, they have declined. It is primarily for financial reasons, how the financial setting of the Agency is completed. There is a tremendous point that we can increase the number of people with expertise in the country, improve knowledge base, and improve the potential for research. It's a hard fight, money is a limited fountain. The application, application, and guidance are important. Little pioneers, small sceptical companies, small innovation companies don't have that knowledge, they have different knowledge, and there they need support. Of course, the development centres and newcomers on the country play a significant role, just working like the melting pots for ideas and projects. Experience over the years shows how important it is for innovation in the country to have experts near them, to have an expert in the community that can assist pioneers personally. That's why it's so important. This link and linking point has been at work and has been developed, and it is not so easy to see that other enterprises in private will be able to create this position, except at high cost. And who will pay him? This 300 billion may be cut. K. A hot tub at the top. Minister to it. It is good to hear that a minister's will is to promote innovation in the country and to measure up men and women. This is shown in a bill report but is not clearly explained. The bill leaves many questions that have not yet been answered, but hopefully it will work on a committee and we will have a clearer answer. Mr. President. The goal of the bill is to lay down the Second Creation Center over the next few months. It may be in my opinion that I doubt that this is a reasonable way, rather than living out further in order to speak to society, to make changes. It is not surprising that the creation center has to change to the rhythm of the times, but that we do not completely throw away the knowledge and experience, the metropolitan memory that is inside it, will burn it up, burn it at the stake. It is important to be able to talk into the big changes ahead of us, and we know about them, with technological changes and technologies that we see. So I'm skeptical that whatever steps we take are there, there's evidence of confidentiality and reason, although a minister says he's going to give 300 million. K. In the state box back. Is that not at anyone's expense? The minister considers that this law will create an environment outstanding for the pioneers and people who work in the innovation environment, it is about to make a journey with elegantness that will bring us great benefits. I am skeptical in the light of the religions that exist in it. I think it's a trip without a promise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u72	President. In answer to the ensuing talk, the minister says that the projects are moving to other parties and that funding them are involved, not an increase in cost. In support of this, cost analysis of the project, which is just awesome and fantastic. So the simple question is, Why wasn't it the answer to a panel's inquiry about the benefits of moving the projects in such a way? That's what the budget asked for. She asked for an explanation on how the administrative expenses moved. And more importantly, what analysis existed when the decision was made? It seems, however, that the decision was made to bring down the New Creation Center of Iceland and then find evidence that it was practical and good for the innovation environment or such. That's a very interesting way to reorganize. I'd like to see the cost analysis underneath: "Here's Project X," which is in the Second Creation Center. It's moving to someone else's side. It comes with a lot of money, etc. The task of Y in the Second Creation Center, which costs an A, moves to a new institution or new place, where the costs of a B or the same cost, or something like that. After all of this has been arranged, it is the rest of the administrative cost, a project that does not move. It is only natural for them to fail because there is another account that is handled elsewhere. There's no need for it anymore, it's falling down. Great. And then there's the Sum on the other side: Is the increase or less cost due to the synergistic effect of moving a project over? Because of some magic, the move does not seem to cost extra, nor does a new one accept more tasks without any extra cost. All the funding involved in this project is to maintain a complete grip on the moving assignment. If we continue with that argument and take it to all the projects of the New World Translation Centres, that all the money the projects are cost moving with them to another location, what remains after all of them have been transferred? You see, it's remarkable. Perhaps there is some administrative project left over and in some way being made more efficient in a new place. It would be great to be able to see it on paper. Please show us this economy, this increase in budgets transferred to the new arrangement instead of being wasted in the Second Creation Center. In this way we work reorganization, we do not win it by laying down a New Creation Center, and then we begin to draw up a new arrangement that could be much better than what we have now. First, we will say: " Now we have this organization. It works this way for new parties coming in, for firms who are applying for innovation, for other people who are at their feet in the innovation environment. These are the ways they're going, and here, according to our analysis, there's an inefficiency. Here we are repeating a number of things, which would be easier to do more efficient by letting this person take care of those who are at the same time taking care of them and not having to work them in repetitions. Instead of ten parties working ten times the same thing, it's one person who works those 100 things once. There is certainly a synergistic effect on this. But this is the organization we're asking for, and I know it was also requested by the Committee for Creation. They knew that there had to be a reorganization and that they would do things better in the New World Center. It's been arranged. It has been prior to the Council's resolution of innovation policy that it should, it should have been done in review, efficiency analysis and restoration of this rottener, how this works. Instead, it suddenly comes out of nowhere, from the highest point of view. Minister: I'm going to shut down the New Creation Center in Iceland. When everyone scratches their head and asks, "Wait, why? Doesn't she fit in? Is there any inefficiency going on? Who is she exactly? They just say, "I'm going to lay down the Agency so that there'll be less administrative costs, and it'll move on to more funding for projects." And other things, certainly. But that's what I'm getting attached to. There's a statement behind it on the grounds of an analysis. Then I'll ask: Okay, now that you can say it, show me the evidence that is behind it. I don't agree very much with the fact that the execution of a full statement without the existence of an analysis to substantiate that claim. If a minister is to say this, she must be able to cough up the evidence to support it. So I asked a financial committee, "Where are these explanations? " What evidence was there for the decision? And there's no answers. Now a minister answers, however, so that these tests exist, I have to assume that they were performed afterwards. Good-bye, great. Why can't we see them? Why were they not part of the answer given to a financial committee that did not include so many days ago? I don't understand. It's on these grounds that you approach a bill like this. It's a follow-up. We have made a decision, and we need to find out some arrangement that we think is more effective. Then show us that it works better. Show us why it works better. That's all we ask for. That's not done in this bill. It's as simple as that. We do not want to, and that is not how we should win. In fact, increasing the cost of administrative management may well be a good idea because the benefits of it are even greater than the benefits of some kind of economy back and forth between existing institutions. The benefits of innovation are generally very high. There should be an even greater contribution in the Management Board of innovations so that they can receive more applications, so that they can help more of the pioneers who are taking their first steps, so that they can improve the research under which they study, e.g. In the construction research so that we can get earlier building materials that are mold resistant and such, so that we do not have to wait another decades to use materials that make our schools mold. How much better it would be to have a new building project a decade earlier! We might get more from innovation, at least if that was our policy. For some reason, we're gonna get this. We'll hear the decision to bring down Iceland's New Creation Center, to move these projects into a private and unexplained arrangement, how it's going to produce potential results. A review of the personnel of Iceland's New Creation Centres explains how a private company would conduct research that will be reimbursed from the research arrangement, but it remains that a certain amount of money has to be put out for the future loss of income, in the end of time. Technology research is said to be the basis for the future construction work, which is extremely difficult and risky in the private sector, because basic research is carried out long before the implementation and efficiency of technology. Then there is the risk of doing basic research, it is much more suitable to process it in certain public procedures. It reduces the risk and spreads it, that the public supports the basic research, which can then be applied. The public can take such risks very well. Then there is the advice on services to pioneers in early stages that have been shown to be very effective. When you have something of great success and plan to exchange it for something else, you have to answer some of the really big questions. In what way does the new arrangement provide at least one part of the budget? as good as what we had before? This bill doesn't answer that. I look forward to seeing how the committee handles this and what questions and answers she gets to these, that what I think is an obvious flaw in the process we should be working on in reorganization of the whole Iceland innovation environment, which is very interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u73	Mr. President. I'm not going to argue that nothing can be changed. I'm not going to argue that things can't be done better or better. But when we look at this bill, I have to admit that I don't quite understand what you're trying to achieve. That's not well explained, that's not very logical enough, and what's worse is some politics back there that's incredibly incomprehensible. I'm gonna try to discuss these points a little. Perhaps a pleasant way to approach this, Mr. President, is to talk about the good, the bad and the ugly. Let us start with the good things that are usually good in everything. If you read the bill and the report appears to be here on a moving attempt to improve the management of innovation in Iceland. I don't quite understand how it's going to work to get the support out of the present arrangement, swap out an institution for a private partner, and actually shake things all together instead of just fixing the existing things. However, it is long time for us to examine the overall nature of the new creation arrangement. Iceland's innovation center is not a perfect machine, any more than any other institution. Those who knew until then, even those who have worked there as I did years ago, have more rage. Parliamentaries have done, and many in the community have come to realize that not everything in the house is perfect. And what's more, all the employees I've talked to, both the present and the former, are willing to admit that there are better things to do. The good part of this is that this is at least an attempt to fix something. But I don't know how going this exact way is going to reach that goal. That's kind of what I can feel. It is good to make the effort to try to fix things when they might be better. But the bad is much bigger. On that particular route, there was great uncertainty. There was a huge uncertainty in all the Agency's staff this January when it was announced that it should be submitted without an explanation of a plan on how it should be done, what should be replaced, or how all of this would work. In fact, this summer it was not in the way. What has happened, and as a result of this uncertainty, important work, which in the usual annual journey, is usually carried on by continued funding, funding processes, reports, and so forth, has gradually declined. At any rate, there is so much uncertainty about the future of various projects that it has been reported that people do not necessarily want to seek additional funding, since they do not know whether those working on the project will be working after a year's time. This certainly has been delayed in May. I don't know if that'll do anything to improve the situation. It seems to me at the bill that all uncertainty will actually remain. Okay, we now know what we didn't know until the bill appeared, maybe it was only suggested in the zoom that appeared in the consultation riddle, but we now know that, according to the suggestion, this so-called Elo department and the Rub Division, i.e. The construction industry, - Mr. President, I am trying to recall whether Elo is not available for matter, biomechanics and energy or if there was anything else; yes, let's say, the chemical, biomechanical and energy departments were -- and then, certainly, part of the establishment, but they did not know exactly what part of it was. It is said that Fab Lab Lab builders will be designed to be wonderful. Maybe I'll celebrate more than others. True, it does not say what that setting should be. Now I know that for many years this setting has been designed, but where is it? There are various points here, but all these points just point toward uncertainty that are not being eradicated but are being pushed forward to May next year. This is really bad because when you have an important organization, such as the New World Translation Centre, which works hard in the community, you do not have a positive influence on the staff, the employee, or the job that is trying to work in that house, starting in January 2020, to throw everything in the air and to create some kind of chaos. It is followed with more and more mess until the end of the year. At that time, the chaos will continue, at least in May. I think it's pretty bad. Mr. President. The ugly thing about it is it won't happen in a void. Even in a normal year's trip, a person would have wanted us to approach this work in an organized and upbuilding way, perhaps starting a conversation with those who knew, working systematically to identify what the problems were, we realized the extent of the reorganization needed, and then moving on in an orderly attempt to figure out how to change things, not only in January, and follow through. Not only was it the moment when this mess was reported to be going on but it was also during a pandemic with the expected economic contractions, with unemployment. This created a situation in which people naturally were extremely worried. And worse than that, it looked like, and, frankly, it looks like some part of it is still going on, as if there's no understanding of what's going on right there in that house. Of course, it is understandable to some extent because it is a large institution. There's a lot going on in there, and there's a lot of complications. To tell you the truth, I don't know if anyone can be expected to have perfect perspective, rather than that anyone has a view of all the research going on in the University of Iceland, although it's certainly a bigger institution. When the race is started in the way it really is, so I come onto what I've put in on, there's some politics running that's hard to understand. They're not gonna happen because it takes a while to find a new beat after things change. Here, traditional government institutions - perhaps a bit unorthodox in many respects - became natural as the equivalent of many different institutions of their time and have followed an unusual methodology, but rather, with a high emphasis on the country, a high priority that each investigator has a certain independence that is only cool - not in public society, as unfortunately there has been a certain tendency to do over the past few years with very variable success, but in a private society that somehow reaches less contact with the state that is expected to bring about its contribution to the future. As you look at how to do this, you wonder: " What exactly is the goal? When premeditation of the stock money is in the hands of the Ministry of finance, as stated in Article 4. The bill, you wonder what to do with the direction of these devices so that it will contribute to more innovation and better innovation, not to be gone into, in the short time I have left, all the questions about financing and how this is going to go on. No, it's just to become a private partner, it's to be organized somehow, and someday we'll find out, perhaps in May, exactly how it's thought. Mr. President. This smells slightly more like Silicon Valley than is thought to be the foundation of innovation for a large community. Iceland may not be a very big community, but it's a big variety. People are doing all kinds of things. Of course, they need practical help. It's not easy to start a company in Iceland, and it's not cheap either, but especially not so easy. People face many dangers, and they rely on many services in the early stages of being pioneers. When you look at the bill, you feel that it's somehow your goal to change the Agency just to a financial financial deduction agency. When it comes to setting this in context to Kuria and other changes, e.g. in the Technical Development Fund, it is as if money will only be sold in a stationed company instead of providing the current vital direction. I hope the guide continues. I hope there are a number of courses that will remain open for pioneers and everything else. But I don't think it's obvious from this bill, far from here. The idea of some sort of Silicon Valley region may include the hope that in Iceland there will be other international companies. And that'd be great, that would be great. But we also need our little companies, we need all the variety. Iceland with more Icelandic genetics and Marel and Assur and CCP would look great, but there are so many companies in Iceland that aren't going into big things on a global scale but still matters for an Icelandic community. The support network must be good in this context. I might talk about it for a longer time, but it doesn't allow time. So I draw this together in the end, the bill raises a lot of questions I understand that have been unsuccessful in answering, whether it's the current staff at the Amendment Center, those who rely on this service, the Senate budget or other people who have been inquiring about it. The bill's not answering very much. I'm going to be treated at a Senate Committee. I don't know if it's under the job committee, but probably. I hope that one of these questions will be adequately answered. The majority of a year's situation does not pacify any nerves. This process has not been very trustworthy, nor has it been possible to place much confidence in it. No doubt there are answers to all these questions, but it is not enough to exist; they too must be revealed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u74	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize technology fund. This bill includes the specialisation of the Development Fund, but the bill has to do with the bill that I ordered here on official support for innovation. The bill suggests that government support for technology, innovation, and employment development laws, No. 75/2007, get out. A law that supports the operation of Technical Development Funds is found in the laws that will be removed, and it is therefore necessary to set aside a fund of specialties to ensure legal foundations for its continued operation. There are no material adjustments to II's standards. section No. 75/2007, now dealing with the fund, except for an additional addition to the 2.mg. 1st par. In addition, technical development fund is permitted to strengthen research and technology development in cooperation with foreign funds, but at present only certain institutions, universities and businesses are being discussed as partners. In effect, this is the way of conveying laws on technology, which are found in the law of No. 75/2007, to specialisations, thus ensuring full coordination of the operation. Comments from the bill received by the Ministry after an open consultation procedure showed that it was appropriate to revise and expand the role and activities of the Technical Development Fund as well as to indicate that the fund's name did not reflect the support that the fund provides and includes more burning than mere technological development. Now, there is a preliminary review of the legal environment of the Scientific and Technical Council, and it is my aim and the Ministry that, on the basis of this, the future organization of the competitive fund, as well as the need for changes in role, organization, and access of bodies to the Management of Technology Fund. The debate over the name of the fund has also developed regularly and will be involved in the future policy development of finding the funds possibly another name. The main purpose of this bill, which I now recommend, is to move the fund into special legislation so that loyalty is a legal basis for the operation. So here it is not a complete reexamination of the Technical Development Fund or the laws around it. A respectable president. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u75	Mr. President. The aim now is to set specifics on technology funds, and it is natural to maintain harmony in all innovations. What I just wanted to talk to the highest. A minister is something that I feel is a little vague and that could cause conflict of interest. We know that Technical Development Fund plays a key role in the support of innovation in Iceland. However, he cannot be independent, as it were, of the cosmologists, of the country's innovations at the same time as his property with unique starters. That's what I understand, anyways, when I went over it. If I cross the 1st floor a little. As we discuss the role of the fund, I feel that there is something that we could do a little better with regard to the wording there. It says that the role of Technical Development Fund is to activate sceptical structure and participate in early stages. That's what I'm doing, if it's normal for this to go together. As such, technology is a competitive fund, and as such it must be an independent and impartial menu of applications into the fund. And then you ask, " Is he neutral when he is at the same time a person, as the article says, in the early stages of innovation? ' If the highest. A minister would be willing to explain this a little more clearly and try to make any doubt about my speculation, whether it's not as if I'm seeing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u76	Mr. President. The answer to that question may be yes and no. For the point of being involved in starters it's not that way in the praxis of Technical Development Fund, that's not how the fund operates and does not share in companies. There is nothing in the policy of control or other today that enables him to do so. In that sense, I would say that your concerns were unnecessary. However, it is probably a matter of view, " Is it simply to be taken for granted? ' Perhaps there is something that the committee might consider in the treatment of the matter. The reason it's this way is because it was like this in the law, and we're not making any changes except the small change I specifically stated. Other than that, it's just a transfer of regulations from existing law to this bill. That's what I think. I think it's a good idea. Senator. It may be like the other aspects of technology, that there are factors to be considered, including those and the factors. There's a senator coming in. But we simply decided not to do so now because the project is a New Creation Centre and to find a way to do it. And because the legal environment of the Scientific and Technical Council is being revised, where technology is a very important tool, it would be something that would follow. But if there are any further changes to the committee, such as making a permanent decision, I think that there is only a very valid perspective that the committee should consider without accepting any general revision, which is what will take place next.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u77	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answer and are glad that they recommend that this should be checked within the committee, at least without doubt that there are potential conflictes of interest in applying. There is a huge number of applications in the sea, and there is a fierce competition for strength. If there is something that causes suspicion, it is natural that it is very bad, and to reduce the credibility of the fund. This is not good at all, especially when total laws on public support for technology, innovation, and employment development are being provided. That's why I'm happy if this is checked within the committee, and my speculations may not be anything we need to worry about. But it was there. When I read this text, I take it that the function of the fund is to strengthen the structure of the sceptres, and it belongs to them in the early stages of innovation, as it says. This can lead to misunderstandings. We all know that the law should be clear and clear, and it's very important that this case is well discussed and that those who come before the committee and worry about it - I know that there are people in this sector who are concerned about it - will be assured that their concerns are unnecessary. So I welcome this answer to the highest degree. Minister and hope that the matter will be examined in detail by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u78	Mr. President. Well, there's not much to add. I share their views with my head. It is the general rule for a senator to avoid this rather than to be overindulging in the government property arrangements at these levels. The role of technology fund is clear, and as a result, this is not the case. However, it is only natural for legislation to be clear about this and to ask if the wording would be the same if it was a product of the overall review. But because we were simply making laws from current legislation into these laws, this is how it stands. But as I told you, the committee will look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u79	Mr. President. As I mentioned in answer to the highest. The Minister of innovations is aimed at developing special funds for technology development, which has thus been part of the global laws on public support for technology, innovation, and employment development. I also mentioned earlier that it is necessary to maintain harmony in all the laws on innovation and agree with them. Technology fund plays a key role in the support of the environment we have here when it comes to innovation and is, in fact, the branch of state funds to support technology development in the country. Its basis is therefore essential for us to use our resources and resources and to stand equal to other nations when it comes to living and building the basis for the manufacturing industry as a industry and a new Icelandic genius to achieve global market targets in individual sectors. That is the natural ultimate goal. Technological development fund cannot be an independent source of funding for innovation in the country and at the same time the owner of a single wand project, as I mentioned in the counter-regument and was concerned about it. I'm glad to hear it. A minister suggests that this should be examined within the committee, whether it is necessary to change the wording so that there is no doubt about any conflict of interest in this matter, where the funds are actually building up and at the same time being involved. We need to clarify this. Hopefully, that would lead to a good conclusion. What I find to be a problem with this case is that I think this fund is way too much for the needs of the university community and these large companies. There is no provision for a specific part of the budget to be given to individuals with early tasks. Having such a group is very important, but unfortunately, it has not been done well enough. It seems that it is continued that a singler or a small group of pioneers and innovations need to live in this large environment for large companies and then the university. Unfortunately, it seems the intention to hide the authority of decision, let's say, the largest funds, to cover it up to a small group of stakeholders. Sad to say, it seems that I am shunning smaller interests, such as pioneers and creatives, which I am following in more detail. The Scientific and Technical Council is increasingly expected to direct the Management Board of Technical Development Funds. It is not to be expected that this process is the key factor in the fulfillment of the new projects of individual intellectual workers. It must be maintained in this process that no one working on innovation is being excluded. I have previously discussed the importance of supporting the organization of intelligent people and have taken this discussion to the highest level. Minister. There is also a law on the practicality of construction research. I think it's a little vague and not directly related to the basic technology fund. It is important for government policies to support targeted development in innovation - driving areas, thus contributing to the growth of sceptres and innovation companies, as well as to ensure that in Iceland there is access to a capital specialized for these activities. The growing of funds that pioneers can seek is good, indeed, provided they are open-minded and do not put all the eggs in the same basket, as we can say. Actually, that's what happened with the New Creation Fund when the technical pool exploded at the time, I think, around the turn of the century. What is missing most for pioneers in the early stages, and there is a group that we are required to do well, this is a patient contribution, a patient contribution, and that each project will be evaluated and in the investments for as long as it takes, until a prototype has proved itself. One of the virtues when it comes to innovation is immune, that humans have time to wait and give privileges to prove themselves, though it takes a long time. It's, for example. not enough, in my opinion, to provide funding for three years if the project is large and extensive, and to see that it does not run out in such a short time. Unfortunately, Mr. President, much too many projects in innovation are left in the middle, so to speak. These are tasks that need this patient financial support and more time to prove themselves. It is quite certain that all real and efficient support for innovation is good, but it is of vital importance that money is useful to innovation, which is not like any other business in which money is always in sight and priority. That's what I think was a bit of a problem with the New Arts Fund, his investments have made a quick profit on my judgment, and it's not too much of a plan to lay on a new creation project, because it's certainly a new creation as well as a risk, whether the project is successful, and then it involves more opportunities or the task will not be any more. Once this treasure has been guided by my judgment, these projects have been excluded from his assistance. It seems to me that the fund that is to be formed by these laws would, unfortunately, be of little data to those of the early stages of innovation. Today, it is reasonable for the government to respond to the situation by adding extra money to innovation. I agree with that, and we in the Central Party have supported it. On the other hand, it seems that the most important factor to take is the technology fund. That's what I think it should be to consider, Mr. President, whether it's the right approach. Would it not also have been reasonable to increase the amount of funds that work on a technology fund? I'll give you the Power Fund, for example. In many respects, technology funds are well-funded, and they offer a wide variety of resources. However, it is always a question of whether there is one organization that determines who will receive this lifeline, which is, in fact, giving the strength of a new creation project and who will not. I'd like to at the end to say, Mr. President, that when you cross the Treaty of the 2017 government, the nation is given some promises of the intensification of intelligence and innovation. It says, for example. This: ▪ Trends and the practicality of intelligence are an important basis for a wide variety of employment life, a strong competitive position, economic growth and welfare of nations... Of course, I agree with this whole thing. These are noble and worthwhile goals. It also states in the Treaty that the government will work to establish that the conditions of the country for pioneers and starters will be outstanding. In the introduction of a new creation policy, Minister of Creation has rightly said: ▪ The most important source of innovation is the thinking of individuals. It is where we can expect to find the solutions and answers that will continue to make it possible to offer an outstanding quality of life in a rural land. These are wonderful promises and good goals, but it might seem that the government wants to further the work of intelligent people and to provide them with an adequate environment. You should mention, and I have noted earlier, Mr. President, that inventors and pioneers have an organization with them, the MNU, which represents the organization of pioneers and inventors, and the KNN, which stands for women in innovation. I have been a zealous advocate of strengthening these communities. They are the unions that have done very good things, but unfortunately they have not been shown the understanding they will certainly be understood when it comes to government support. Markvist has been decommissioned, and he is no one today. These fine communities work in the spirit of the goals that governments and ministers set up in their statements that I quoted earlier, and they work closely together. You might therefore expect them to have support for their assignments and activities, but they do not. Twice the government has denied the strength of these organizations. Of course, that has to be reasoned, but it has not been done. You ask yourself, " Is it really going to happen that they will be rejected for the third time because I know they have made a request for financial support? ' And there is no great deal of money there, not at all. So it will be interesting to see if these communities will get the strength they have requested for now for the third time. These are the only European interest groups of intelligent people who had made up of public funds for this important work, for their work and for the promotion of innovation, and for which contributions were highest in 2013 but then went down a year from year to year. In 2017, the Ministry of Creation denied them strength. There has really been no logical support. I've been through this with the highest. Minister. I'm going to hope the minister understands that this group is doing very good things. He has, like, one. Show peer instruction to pioneers. This is the company of some 400 people, and within this group there is a wide range of education and enormous experience. It is precious for those who intend to promote innovation to have an opportunity to communicate with these people. These are just new recruits who have been hired for the first step in developing ideas and working on innovation. You can seek theoretical advice on applying for grants, etc. It is so important that the guidance people receive on these first steps can be enjoyed. Much of this has been done on volunteer work, i.e. The advisory services provided by these organisations, to provide tasks between members and by the nature of the tasks, at the same time as for example. The Management Service of the New Creation Center is driven by people who earn money from government funds. This counseling service is of utmost importance. I wanted to say this at the end, Mr. President, because I think it's very important that we don't forget anyone when it comes to innovation. Here we are setting a special fund that is large and great and much good for him, but we must not forget pioneers, monarchs in this vital work, which ultimately brings us all to a more practical and beneficial conclusion when it comes to the innovation and importance of it to the nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u80	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize your birth and parentorof. Before discussing the subject of the bill, it is interesting to quote the discussion that was held in this hall on April 28, 2000, more than 20 years ago, when it was recommended for a bill to legalize a baby's tomb in the form we have known them. There was then a social minister, Páll, who recommended that the bill, called Pétursson. It may well be appropriate to meet today when his death was remembered at the beginning of a council meeting this morning. When Páll spoke in his day about this matter, he began his address by relating the purpose of the law, which was to ensure a child's separation with both parents. He discussed the matter 20 years ago as to the fact that one explanation of gender - based pay is that women are more bound to a home than men. Thus, their efforts to work for children would be more than men. Then he also discussed the need for men and women to share always in secular work, as well as other secular jobs, to share in the care of their children. Páll's title also discussed the reasons why legal rights had been determined to place each parent on his or her three months'right to take a birth stock instead of the parents'choosing how to operate the months to which to change. The reason included By promoting the same parental responsibility as for improving the interests of men, mothers in the past used mainly the right to birthworm, even though parents could set aside the right without interference. It was their assessment that these laws were written 20 years ago that the legal arrangement had to be established in this way while the right of fathers to birth would be established. Páll pointed out that once we have found equal parental responsibilities, we would need to reconsider whether there was still a legal exchange between parents. This review would be based on the parents'exchange of common rights and the taking of fathers on their own rights. During the past 20 years, statistical data on the use of maternity rights has been collected by the birthorfs. It reveals that a complete father uses only his own rights, and the right that is free between parents is used by mothers. The experience has not yet reached equal parental responsibilities in this regard and therefore reason to continue to bind the rights of both parents separately. Páll, the late apostle Pétursson, discussed the point that people had noted that there was a fault with the law then established. These tips included protection. the state of single - parent families These faults have been added, and we are even going further on the bill under consideration. In this year 2020, 20 years have passed since the validation of valid laws on birth and parent'soroft, which have led to a review of the law in its entirety by a special group, the bill being the product of that work. It formed a good partnership within the group that worked these laws in terms of the change in existing laws presented in the bill, as the group returned. That's especially to be welcomed. The bill, as it came from the staff, was introduced in government consultations and received numerous subsequent tips from the Ministry and made changes from the work force. In view of each social situation, birth failure is a constant shape, and the need for legislation to be revised on a regular basis, thus reflecting the trend in society. It is clear that when the law on maternity and parentorum was passed 20 years ago, they were extremely progressive, as an understatement, and are still viewed by other nations in the shape of their rules and experience based on the progressive laws adopted here 20 years ago. Despite the changes in family responsibilities, especially in recent years, the care and training of children is still the most important task for each family. We still want to create a good environment for people who have children and give both parents equal opportunities to enjoy valuable activities with their child during the first few months of their life. The bill as it is submitted here is a big step in that direction. Sadly, however, the birthworm system will never be molded in such a way that it will fall precisely to the needs of each family in this country, but its goals are clear, more dignified. The bill has a valid code for birth and parentorofa. Reassuring them to become clearer and more accessible, and these changes are in order to make it easier for prospective parents to recognize their rights within the system. Then the bill suggests that a switch between birthworm rights and birth strength becomes the same between parents so that parents can use each other six months, while each parent will be allowed to give up one month to the other parent. I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that this equal exchange of parental rights to maternity is in line with what the staff agreed to suggest. In my opinion, the possibility of division between parents and the parents listed in the bill is best to achieve the goals of law on birth and parentorship in ensuring the rights of children to coexist with both parents and in making it possible for both men and women to coordinate family and professional life. This is a combination of the rights of parents, the rights of their children, and the rights of their parents in this case. In this regard, the results of the study of the Icelandic birth - holiday system suggest that the responsibility of children to care is now more balanced between parents and should be welcomed. Further, the results of the studies show that the possibility of legally binding parents to independent birthal rights has proved to be an effective means of changes in human and female equality. With regard to these two factors, it is entirely possible for children to have both parents, and the research that shows how important it is for children to develop relationships with their father in the first few weeks and months of each child's life. A respectable president. In addition to what I've already traced with the bill, there are also some changes from the current law regarding further access to extensions, expositions and rights, when one parent cannot because of certain circumstances a new one is within the system. These include situations where a parent is unable to fulfill his responsibility for fathering a child under child law, when a parent is made a restraining order and/or disfellowshipping from his home, and when one parent has no right to birth or birth rights in another state. In addition, an increased right to the custody of a parent is laid out in such cases when there is no or significant limited association with the child, such as under observation, on the basis of the findings of law - defying authorities or courts. I welcome these changes, as well as the fact that there is a impossible option for a child to be separated from both parents in maternity vacations, but much has been called after such changes within the maternity system. It is safe to say that many of the comments on the subject in consultations also turned to these factors. Therefore, we also felt that it was important to respond and go better into it, and this was done between what the bill was going on and until it is recommended here at the council. In the above circumstances, it is proper that children who are involved thus have the possibility of enjoying association with one parent for as long as other children who can enjoy association with both parents. However, I would like to stress that it is important for me to believe that these differences between the principles of equal rights or the birth strength between parents are always in a way that the law's goals will not be compromised. In addition to this, the bill suggests further changes in existing laws, which should include a special strength to the parent walking with a child because of reduced access to birth services in the country. It is an enormous issue of justice, and it has been called on for a very long time that as a community, we come in stronger with families and parents who need some part of the time to stay far away from home in order for a child to come into the world. Then we are increasing the right of parents to maternity or abortion. It is expanding from current law. A respectable president. In my mind, there is no question that the system we have set up to help parents accept permission from family responsibilities is of utmost importance to parents, even more so, for children involved. I also believe that the birthworm system is such a system that we as a community should emphasize that those who have the rights of the system use and use them fully, thus achieving the results of these rights. A respectable president. I am therefore pleased to present this bill here at the General Assembly and give much emphasis on its approval, but it is in my opinion a great improvement for the parents and children of the future. It's nice to say that during this terms, both with the extension of this bill, with changes to single parents, to the national settlements, and to other aspects I've mentioned here, as well as the increases in payments made in the birthworm system, in this government, the total pay that flow from common funds will go from 10 billion to 20 billion during the current ideal period. So the current government, by its action, is to double the funding to the children in this country through the birthworm system. I am exceedingly happy and proud of it. However, as I told you before, it does not matter how the bills are brought up that include large changes such as double the birthworm system, there will always be differences in the opinion of individual factors. I'm aware that in this room there are differences in opinions on the subject of this bill. On the other hand, I think that all of us can be happy that we are restoring the maternity system, extending the rights of parents, all parents, from the beginning of the season, and making sure that it doubles the budget that goes on to the children's families through this system. That makes me very happy. After the discussion that will now be conducted, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u81	Mr. President. It's a happy day, and I'm so glad we're back here having a suggestion for the birthworm extension up to 12 months. That is exactly what the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir agreed to do here during the campaign period of 2009 ◯2013. Sadly, however, the first task of the forwarding government and the Independence Party, by government, was to shorten the birthworm again to nine months. I'm glad we're gonna have it 12 months, but I'd like to ask a few questions about a restraining order. It is said of a restraining order against a child, that if a parent gets a restraining order against a child, the right parent will move on to the other parent, the parent's caring parent. Usually, a restraining order is not against a child but against a parent, so I ask a minister: How does he sees it possible to protect the violent parent or is the reason for the restraining order being applied because it is usually between adults? That's my first question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u82	A respectable president. When it comes to the steps involved in transporting rights to birthworm, the other parent is looking out for a parent. What's up there is that there were some suggestions from the Committee, men trying to follow the wise course of entering that committee. In general, I'd like to say about this, but the committee can go deeper into it, that we were trying to follow a course of opening the line in order to allow a certain situation to transfer a hysteria. Still, we did not want to open it up so much that the purpose of the law was lost that individuals would not be doing it unless there were actual examples. In this unique aspect, it is the parent who is the parent of the child, as I understand it. However, there is little doubt about this in the case of the committee and further explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u83	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for. I would like to ask further questions, on page 18. 5. This is about a parent who is beyond recovery and who is the right parent, or parent who does not live with a parent who gives birth to his child. There I would like to ask about the implementation of this move, or that it will not be available if the person returns a confirmed agreement from the county or the court within the 24 months of birth. Now our system is so it just doesn't work like this. You wonder: " Is it only the six months that a child cannot enjoy a gathering with both parents? The seventh month, however, must be handed over with the approval of both. I'd also like to ask about your birth strength, if it's the highest. Ministers believe that a delivery value of 190,000 is sufficient. for students and 83,000 taps. for individuals outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u84	A respectable president. Regarding the first question: If there is no contact and it is confirmed, to form by the decision of a businessman or a judge or by child protection, or if there is close supervision or limited in much, then the guardian can apply for this. When we're talking about having this equation split, and having a definite opening of it, there's always line dancing to step. There is evidence to support the implementation of individual exceptions, they are available in a report, and they can be better understood. I couldn't answer the second question, but I'll come up against it. When she delivers a talk below, a senator answers that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u85	A respectable president. It's great to have a bill for a song about birth and fathers' worming. But I wonder, " Where is the closet of righteousness? ' Have you lost the safe of justice that you'd like to put on? On one occasion, do you have a little justice, or do you harbor your conscience pants, or are they still on your heels? How do you think you're gonna have this kind of discrimination? This is essentially part of financial violence. How can it be made clear that 83,000 k is to be given to those who need it most?? Then we've got 190,000 bucks. And then I'm up to 137,000 bucks. And 600,000 bucks. Why are you playing this number? Why is there always room for discrimination in money? What's wrong with your deepest soul? How can you say to those who need this most, those who are unemployed and who have no income, that they should have at least 83,000 bucks?? There's something very strange about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u86	A respectable president. How important it is to realize the foundation of this system! It's an initial labour market system. The reason that the Labour Office keeps up with this, and the reason for the labour secretary's bringing this issue initially is because it's a labour market policy, as if unemployment insurance is a labour market policy. The original way it's coming in. However, it is quite clear that there are things I would like to change, and I think we should what. A senator can agree on this. When we have completed this 10 billion restoration of the deliveryor system, the project is not finished; birth strength, floor, bridge the gap from maternity school to prenatal school, it's not over. But to come up here and say that 10 billion restorations to the maternity system is nothing, I don't agree with it. A senator in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u87	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. But like I say, I can't blame my crutch that my back is bad. It's not her fault, no more than the Labour Organization is teaching you how to make your money. It's just an excuse. It doesn't matter whether we're talking about 10 billion or 20 billion in the context of 83,000 taps. which someone who is in the womb should receive. It's just good news that it's in, but I can't see how this amount can be found in any way. This is the lowest possible amount. We found this kind of money in farms, there were some who were very poor who were getting that kind of money. How can you think of that? You must be able to calculate it so that people will have the minimum they need. There is a new child on the way, and this requires money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u88	A respectable president. As I said before, these are the rights of a system, you get a certain percentage of your pay in your birthport. Then you have the strength to give birth to individuals - and why. Senator, I'm just explaining how the system is built - which does not have rights within the system. It is also true that individuals receive a certain percentage of their pay. Again, I disagree that 10 billion restorations on the system are nothing. It is not by default to take a system like the birthworm system in one terms period and double it. Is the project over? No. Do I agree with you? A senator's opinion that additional measures can be taken? Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u89	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the past and agree with those who have spoken about the fact that here is an important bill involved in the workforce rights of the people. But that's exactly what I want to ask the highest. Minister on specific matters, i.e. that there is really no floor in the system. Assume that if workers are at work, the floor may be 268,000 per month. I want the Minister to know if they were tempted in his Ministry to figure out how much it would cost to take the floor for a minimum wage.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Yeah, there's some calculations, but I don't have them in the railer. However, it can be accomplished. A candidate or a member of the committee. On the other hand, the government began to increase the pay of the maternity clinics and the extension of the birth lagoon. That is what the government set up as a project. We are, indeed, doing it, and we must keep it. We do so in the way expected in this bill. But I agree, too. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson of not finished his mission. This is clearly one of the things that need further attention, as is the need to bridge the gap, as if further action to encourage and support family members in this country. I don't have the handle on it, but you can get it to what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u91	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister responds and looks forward to seeing this document. How important it is that we come to understand the exact amount of money that we might be working on when we are working on it! That's why I think it's important. This is the very person who has the lowest enterprise, or rather the lowest amount to support himself, and therefore it is harder to take on the losses that result than those with a higher income. It is very important that we examine this carefully. I also wondered about increasing the rights of those who are, as the minister mentioned, one parent, i.e. One child is raised alone, even though another parent is for distribution. Does the minister think that he or she has the right to children in 12 months with their parents as well?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u92	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator about the floor. However, I would like to say that there is also a flaw in the discussion. i.e. ... wetalkaboutthis should be a legitimate system. Some in this room are talking about this not supposed to be connected to the second sex, that it's about the rights of the child. At the same time, it is their children's right, regardless of their parents'position, to take advantage of the system. If this is a labour market system with acquired rights, like the unemployment insurance system, they're simply a different system. So there is a problem with this discussion. But I'm gonna make this happen. Senator. When it comes to single - parent families, we were trying to open this up to single parents, but not too much to make the purpose of the bill, which is also to ensure that we fathers take birth metal, were not lost. There are further developments on this issue and can be introduced to the Commission in its processing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u93	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister was right in this saying that the purpose of the bill was also. To be fathers, like the highest. Minister, would a birthlord equal women? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, who knows as well as I do that it is important to be moderate when making decisions, whether it would have been more appropriate and more appropriate, and more consistent with the average rule of creating a positive incentive for fathers to take a birth code, e.g. by raising the roof of income connections, rather than forcing all parents in the same box. According to point two. The bill is mainly aimed at ensuring a child with both parents, but we know that this will mean that some children will miss months with their parents, simply because some fathers are better paid than mothers and some mothers are better paid than fathers. Would it not have been better to develop positive motivation rather than bans and predestinations as indicated by this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u94	A respectable president. To two things: First, I traced the words that were made to fall when it was recommended, the evidence that was there on the basis of binding rights to each sex. They are still entitled to do so today because we have not fulfilled what was set up at the time of the law. Second, I'd like to say that the current government has already gone up in this ideal period of coverd roofs. A senator quotes from his talk, as well as the length we are under attack, and an increase in that roof costs a government fund per year of 10 billion dollars. increase. But is there more to do? Yes, it is possible to do more than we have both taken positive steps by increasing the pressured roofs, but we are also holding at the baseline on which the law was based, because we have not yet reached the goals we were going to achieve when it was set. [[The president calls.]] This also applies to your child's rights. [[The president calls.]] It's about the child's rights, just like that. A senator came in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u95	A respectable president. I'd like to talk to the highest possibles. Minister for equality. The rule of equality means that comparable matters are handled in a comparable way and in different ways. The difference between the sexes is as striking and as decisive as with children. I can walk with a child, and, in fact, I will bring a child, but not a minister. Is it just as true that the Minister is granted just as much right as I am as a child? I can teach the highest. A minister that it is a great struggle to walk with a child, but we do not give women a special holiday in the last month of pregnancy, as it is done in all North countries from week 36, nor do we give women the right to recover from this huge struggle of birth to the child. Is it really in the spirit of equality and equality that men receive exactly as much permission as women, according to the birth - exchange union?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u96	A respectable president. The bill as it is submitted here, assumings an even exchange of six, six, six, but that it is possible to move one month between, which means that the exchange can be seven, five. In some ways, then, it is coming to the very point of view. A senator came in. Other than that, I'd like to say that I think there's a lot of equality involved in this bill. I only quote the words said here 20 years ago in this hall and how other nations have watched the results of this law, both in equality, in the increased involvement of fathers in raising their children, and in the positive effects of growing up in the first few weeks and months of their lives as much as a father and mother, or with a greater role as a father. I believe that the tests that have shown this are true, they show it. I believe we're taking a good step here in this regard. [[The president calls.]] But we are ensuring a certain flexibility, as I did in my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u97	Mr. President. Yes, I now declare again that this is a great day of joy. It is a pleasure that the government is fulfilling its promise of a 12 - month extension of birthworm. And I reiterate that I am glad to be returned to 12 months, as agreed by the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir in the season of 2009-03/2013, but taken off and cut off the government of the forward and Independence Party during the later election period, which, however, was shorter. This was one of their first jobs, and I can't let it pass because if it had been left alone, we would be longer. But I'm happy for what's done well. There are a few things that I both rejoice over and yet want to draw attention to. I agree with what is stated in the review of the surgeon general's office in a confidentiality when the office is, in effect, critical of the group involved in the contract of this bill. Because while it is the right of people at work, some understanding of our community has been that we are also viewing the rights of the children to socialize with their parents. Nevertheless, the terms of the law are as follows: This law includes the rights of parents in a domestic labour market for birth and parentalorlofs, but also for the rights of parents outside the labour market or for less than 25% of the workcount and parents in the full-time education. This is based on parental rights, not on children's rights. This may be what we should consider the next time we consider changes in maternity, whether we should look at these things from the rights of our children. Yet, it is very important that we accept the fact that for decades we have been working to balance the right sex with a workforce. And doing this in this way is of utmost importance when it comes to the equal rights of the sexes of the work market, i.e. to encourage men to take birthworm and to ensure the sexual rights of the labor market so that women, or the parent walking with the baby, do not have a very small share in the labour market because of a absence of pregnancy and birth. That's very important. Thus, this has been a trend, trying to contribute somehow to both parents' involvement. You cannot overlook the fact that the recent discussion with this bill has, in fact, revealed that the individuals over 35 years of age, older than 40, may more readily remember the struggle for this right than the younger ones, and you feel that those in the late 20's are much hotter in the discussion to have their own will and rights, and the best interests. I have to admit, because I'm standing here in the Lady Generalis, that I've had a lot of winding talk about this because some nerve in me says, "We're supposed to let people choose the way that suits them and their child best." Unfortunately, the tendency is for the woman to take them considerably more months, or the parent walking with a child, as it is said in the bill - and now you have to be careful to use that expression, not a woman and a man, and I ask those who just listen to respect, but I'm trying to be careful. We need to be careful to remember our surroundings. We're trying to keep it so that we don't go back to the environment when the right sensors in a workforce were extremely uneven. In certain lands, it is known that women who apply for work are first asked: "Have you a man? " If they say no, you're going to get a husband? Will you begin to increase the number of mankind? If the woman dares to answer yes to that question, she will be less employed. We need to remember that in the discussion presented here. That is why you are trying to do this as best you can, both because of the right of the parent who doesn't walk with your child, to connect with your child, but also because of the right of the other person in the labour market. But again I say, I've been swinging really hard in this. Of course, you go to some point where you might have some disagreement and wonder what it's supposed to be like. Over the years, the right of a child who grows up with one parent has been severely impaired compared to the right of a child who lives with both parents and who can enjoy association with both of them. It's an experiment in this bill to fix it, and that's good. But on the 9th. The bill speaks of the exuberance or right of parents'right to maternity. It's, for example. that in the case of a single parent after assisted reproductive technology or the parent for the entire 12 months. Then there is what I talked about with the highest. Minister before, i.e. The restraining order. If a parent is made aware of a restraining order against his child and/or evaporation from home and is unable to care for his child in the first 24 months of his life, the right will be transferred to the birthworm that has been formed and the parent has not been able to use himself, over to the other parent. I just want to take us into reality. Thus, there is a restraining order between adults, and after a brief follow-up for the prosecution, there is not much evidence that the restraining order has been applied to an individual and to the child. There may be situations that directly hostile the child and hostile the parent with whom the child lives without a ruling order. And when it's in all the 24 months, you wonder, " What time can the court move on? ' Because the six months have passed and there is still a bad condition, but you are not able to use your baby's birth Orc, i.e. for the next six months, except for the next 18 months - or just for the next 12 months, the court expires at the 24-month target - the situation has become too dangerous for the child. It is not even enough to be dangerous for a child's guardian to get a restraining order to be used during these months. Then you can imagine how this would actually work against yourself with this law. I know the purpose of this is good, i.e. trying to protect those at risk of being violent, but it seems to me that this is not going to work out completely. It does not seem to protect the parent who is caring for the child and who has to endure some form of demeaning or dangerous treatment. It is also given from birthal disembarking if a parent is unable because of disease or the consequences of an accident to care for his child in the first 24 months and is well. This is also the case because of penalties, but if a parent does not have the right to birthworm or birthal strength under the law of this country, nor does he have the right to birthworm or birth strength in another country. Then the other parent can gain the right to birthworm for up to 12 months. This is of great importance because it is now that we are not all entitled to the very self - righteous object that we feel is today. In the case of a mate who has no rights in this country and who may not even be allowed to live, the children of these individuals have carried a very powerful object from the table. I believe this change is extremely important. All I want to do is discuss the work force involved in reviewing the law. There are only representatives from the labour market and the Icelandic community, but there is really no users. Sadly, all too common for the European Commission's work groups to start is that they are missing users. I wondered about the Society of Single Parents, Students, and artists because artists have precisely pointed to the unreasonableness in the calculations of birth - stocks when it comes to rights for birthworm. Then they give up some numbers that are not in any relation to the reality of the traditional, independent, active artist who works between 150 and 2000% but does not reach 540,000 dollars. The criteria defined as the master's minimum wage for full-time employment. I have to say, after being in that tough business, 540,000 is just a pretty big amount for people who are independent of that kind. It's a very irregular income. Sometimes more money comes. But if this is distributed over 12 months, there are 550,000 private artists who do not have a fixed contract with houses or other pretty high. What falls under this amount is that ratio of 100%. We can also see that this is somewhat under the artistics. Still, they are defined as 100% wage for some particular time, so it doesn't quite fit in. I think we need to take a look at this. At the end, I'd like to say I'm looking forward to winning this case at a moment. A welfare committee but would have wanted it in sooner so that we could have a good time, because we have to finish it by the end of the year. And again, this is delivered just before the November/December month's match. Sadly, the committee does not have sufficient time for this matter to be won. Even though it's been a year, we'll get it at this hour. But again, I'd like to say, the decision to keep your birth strength is 190,000. and more than 80,000, respectively. Whether you are a student or an outside job market is too low. I think we're all agreed that this is too little money. It's really amazing that she moves so slowly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this speech. There are two things I want to come on, many things I have to kill. Before taking these two things, I want to welcome the positive ones. A senator had the issue and the greater justice in general. Of course, there are points that we don't have. A senator pointed out in his case, and I'm going to try to enter two of them. As for the strength of birth, I'd like to say, as I said in my speech and after she said, that we're going to take action both in terms of extending the birthmark and raising payments from the birth holiday fund to create a positive impulse that has been called. But it is clear that the project is not finished. While we are in this ideal period, we are taking 10 billion measures to improve our birthworm system and there are many improvements as well as improvements. A senator came in on his case, then the mission is not over. Better be it, then we could just pack up and go home. We need to keep moving. The next task to be considered is the level of birth, the minimum, and the turning point of covering the gap between maternity school and prenatal school. But that does not minimize the action we address here. Regarding the restraining order and the discussion. A senator entered, I'd like to say that. A senator is both more educated and experienced in that field than the one listed here, just to be said. I know that at her former jobs, she had quite a few things to do with these things. This is one of the points that we examined between the consultation puzzles and the bill that has been submitted. Maybe there's some kind of gap in this? That may be so. That's why we're bringing this here to the council. I just want to say thank you for this tip. Senator. My word is, if these windows are there - I just don't have enough personal knowledge to measure it - that the Ministry is working with the Committee to find ways to shut them down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u99	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. Yeah, we're not done. We're just on our way. But all the steps in progress and in righteousness are of the good. I think we should take a look at the situation in the North. It is stated, according to a surgeon's opinion, that we are creating a system that is in many ways very different from what is in other parts of the North countries regarding this very transition. I don't know if they're that far behind when it comes to the rights of people in a labour market or whatever the cause is. Of course, it would be great if we had time to work on that committee, but unfortunately we do not. That's right, which is the highest. According to the minister, the next task is to bridge the gap between maternity school and prenatal school. It is most important to me that we try to ensure equality between children according to their rural communities. It's not there today. Some rural society is opening one child - playing school after another, moving out the nursery. But other rural areas just don't have a chance to go on it, especially in the year when it's due to Covid, when it's all about whether the government is going to back them up. It's clearly the next job. I know that the committee will work hard to fix possible bait on this case and will do everything she can to make it better for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u100	A respectable president. Yes, I had actually answered the questions that I could not answer in reply to my opening talk. I just wanted to come up to discuss the next assignment, i.e. To bridge the gap. Of course, it is true. A senator comes in here about that. We've had, in cooperation with the European Union, the national situation. The situation is that more than a part of your community is offering or planning to attend a school from 12 months of age. But a smaller proportion of the population lives in rural areas offering such an offer. It tells us that the big communities cannot reach out for this. We've been having a conversation with them, and it just wasn't possible for this bill to bridge it. It'll be the next job to bridge it. The government is doing well now by extending 12 months and stretching in that direction, and it is good for certain communities. But better still, if there are enough for others, and there, of course, local societies need to arrive at the table too. It's a business of cooperation between the state and the community how we get it, I agree with you. A senator with that. I'll do it for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u101	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for later the answer. I just feel like we're having the same conversation we had a year ago. There I complained that our maternity bill would be late for the council, that we would have so little time to talk to the stakes involved. How sad that we are back there, just before a month's convention of November ▪ December, so to speak! A year ago, a lot of talk was made about the change. There was much discussion about the rights of those in some way who are socially inclined, trying to catch them. It's been done to some extent. But you continue to wonder about the children of parents who do not live together, how we can catch them. I entered this duty, that there should be some sort of confirmed agreement on segregation during the 24 months; but our system at the county, and at the courts is just a lot more hovery than that. When it is refused to get a union deal, the right to birth will be passed in the 24 months. The third thing I'd like to point out, which we talked about a year ago, that's to bridge the gap. We talked about it 12 months ago, and we're right in the same place. We're not here any longer, but I feel a little bit like we're here in the same conversation again. But it's okay. Forward march. We have this. [[The president calls.]] The last 12 months haven't been canceled, and I'm just celebrating.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u102	A respectable president. I can truly agree with what. paritaprevir Vala Vólvó Helgadóttir that this is a happy day, that we finally, hopefully, should be putting on the seat of a 12 month's birthday. But I would like to ask. A senator's opinion on whether she might be found, e.g. Understandably, parents are not allowed to decide for themselves how to share these 12 months. I would like to grab into a tiny fistula that I was reading on the health care unit, which is about breastfeeding and its importance to the baby, because it is not only about parents and relationships but also about the child's relationship and how it feels in the first year of life. It says, by permission of the President: The first gift is one of the best gifts we have ever received. It has a positive effect on spirituality as a physical health for the mother and the child and is a unique means of communication. This draws near to create an opportunity for communication, and the child gains a solid foundation for life. It is important to realize that this is a time that will not come again. I'd like to get it past you. A senator how she feels about the importance of breast feeding for the child, for one thing is certain, we're walking natural with the baby, and it's quite clear that no matter how much he would like it, the father cannot breast-feed the baby. I may be of such an old school, I don't know, but I don't really think that the freedom we're talking about, the freedom of the individual, freedom of expression, freedom of writing, freedom of thought, and all freedom of thought, is really the only thing that parents should be free of. Some mothers just don't breast-feed their babies at all, and they may want to work more, and that may be the father who comes in that case. But number one, two and three, I'd like to ask you why. A senator about this, just from freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u103	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, that's what I've been talking about here. I've been swinging in this conversation all over the place about parents' very freedom to choose what's best for them and sometimes what's best for the baby, but it doesn't always go together. At times, parents may think that it is more convenient to take a smaller birthworm, regardless of whether the busier parent is breast-feeding or not. Regarding breast-feeding children, the surgeon's advice that it is good for the child to only breast-feed for six months if possible, if possible, and after that breast-milk, and any food, according to the information provided by the consultation guide and elsewhere. I can only talk from my own experience that when the baby starts to eat food while breast-feeding, breast-feeding will now stop being on it from 15 minutes away as it is first when you're trying to get rid of a steel man - you might close your ears, I pray you. Ævarsdóttir Þórhildur Övarsdósdótir not to listen to experiences now, it's becoming very personal - and it's about to be a few hours apart, to give breast in the morning and then after work or then the other parent shows up with the baby at work and you give breast. [[For the record, I'll bring you one later.]] It's all going around. Had three babies breast-feeding, this has been all kinds of things. I just appreciate breast-feeding, and I think this is a very important connection development. I also believe that it is very important for the other parent to enjoy these connections. [[The president calls.]] I think it's extremely important, whenever possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yeah, I can agree with that. I've had four babies breast-feeding, so they say. But anyway, this is mainly a question of adult freedom to make a personal decision. I understand why. A senator was in some swing because it's a difficult means. But I say number one, two and three is the individual's freedom because I expect both parents from the heart to do what they really think is best for them and for the child. I'm not sure that a married parent, if he is his wife, would have to run the child to work or have him come with him to breast-feed anywhere, might be more likely to lose this child from breast-feeding. But that's another story. I'm mostly thinking about the ones who choose this, that they're not being placed against the wall: you can only be seven months, and the rest for five or whatever. They can only decide if it's the father, if it's the mother. I just think it's so naive, I think it's out of a map and rhythm with what we're trying to talk about about the individual's freedom. Why at the National Assembly of Iceland, decide how parents conduct their maternity vacations? I can't get it. I am happy over 12 months, but I am not glad that we are going to decide what is best for the child, what is best for the family, and how parents are taking advantage of what the law is doing for the family, to establish a 12 - month birth vacation. I meant to do a speech naturally, I'll admit that I really abuse my situation by jumping in answer to what happened. A senator who tries to promote this point. But in many ways, I suppose we agree, me and the other. A senator, who is the one who has largely stood up to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council later answered and urged her to listen to my speech again, which can be found in the general sleep. I was referring to the long - term importance that we always provide the right sex in a job market. This law is a labour market policy, and then we cannot completely ignore the aspects of the bill involved in ensuring that women have every right to a job market as well as men. Both parents have equal rights so that they do not treat those who go to a longer maternity school, such as the one who does not receive, for example. Progress in action because the person is going to increase the number of mankind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u106	... can only control it itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u107	It has been aggravated by women who have so far walked with their children and will now remain in much more of their lives. It has been a blow to them throughout the years, and it will continue in the countries where nothing is thought of, that they go to birthfowl, and that they, the men, do less. They get better careers, better paid jobs because they don't fall out of a job market at a certain time, etc. Hv. A senator spoke of it as naive not to allow older ones to choose, but in a way I also find it naive to overlook a woman's struggle for decades for being valued in a job market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u108	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say the last speaker, please. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, about how important it is to have a maternity law that aims to equal the right of both parents to take birthworm. It is on the other hand, as we have discussed today, about the child's rights to enjoy together with both parents and very important relationships to do as we know, but also the equality of the sexual potential for a workforce. That, too, matters. At first, I had no intention of giving a talk. I listened to the highest. The minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason took his bill and listened attentively and was sincerely pleased, as the minister went on to say, that this matter has been in preparation for a long time. The review of current legislation since the year 2000 has taken months and with the arrival of many so that I believe we have a fairly good bill in our hands, although something can undoubtedly be corrected and will undoubtedly be done for treatment. The welfare committee. There are a lot of people on the rosary, yet not many people have expressed themselves on the subject today, but I suppose, and I hear immediately that there are some suggestions already on how to improve the situation. It'll be interesting to watch that job and take 2nd. when the committee has discussed the matter. V.E.G. A minister reviewed history and the origin of the current law on birthworm as then on. A senator and a chief. At that time, a social minister, Páll Pétursson's late son, led. At that time, it was a world - wide milestone, equalizing the right of both parents to take birthday vacations. What we have been doing here has been representing the Agency's Department of Foreign Affairs for the past seven years, and very often in meetings with foreign Parliaments, the issue of equality is being discussed because Iceland, although we can still make significant improvements, is in the world's chief order on equality. That state of the country may include traces to these laws from the year 2000 as then. A senator and minister, Páll the son of Pétursson, stood before, very progressive, and exemplary. I have to say, I'm very proud to review this story, recalling this story of my party, the forwarding party, in the public assembly, and especially on this day when I have just listened to the Supreme Court. current social minister, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, submits his bill. It's a big day, and it's not just the forward party. It's natural for all of us because I'm convinced that a new bill will be a big improvement. We have the bill, as I said earlier, to make changes in the law to extend the birthmark of parents from nine months to 12 months. Then there is expected to be a switch. Now, it is three months between the parent and three months that people can divide between themselves depending on the situation, but we expect six months each each time when parents can take one month and take it specifically so that one parent could take five and the other seven months, which is always an increase compared to the possibility that it is now three and six months, but would be five and seven. It's always an increase. It's always for improvement. It's a long time. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Magnús. The minister of Ásmundur Daðason Davidson was involved in verbal exchange and entered the nursery space and different local positions. The minister said that the next step is to better control it because it differs greatly from the services of rural society in these areas, i.e. to receive young children. Of course, there is something that needs to be added to these big changes. But somewhere we must begin, and this is one step along the way to increase the rights of children and improve equality between sexes and parents, which can naturally be of various genders, as we know. I'd like to before I left, I didn't want to talk for a long time, but you always talk longer than you want to, to mention here that with your bill it is suggested that a pregnant parent be given a special strength because of the reduced availability of birth services in the case of a pregnant parent, in the opinion of a specialist, to stay away from her home for a planned birth date in connection with the necessary services due to the baby's birth. I was very happy to see this point on the bill because at 148th, the member of the Council proposed a bill along with the Party's Council on the Childorlof of those in that position, i.e. A place far away from birth, and there was a place to go before the appointed date of birth, considered by a specialist physician. So these people would not have to start taking birthworm when they went to the birthplace. Rather, this time would be added to the worm. The bill did not succeed in its time, even though it was understood and well - meaning. But the highest. The minister decided to take it into consideration for the work being done in connection with the preparation of a bill, and I am very happy to see this feature appear this way in the Minister's bill. V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna say anything, but I'm gonna say it to the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs is truly happy to all of us and is looking forward to the continuation of our discussion here at the Senate Hall today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u109	A respectable president. We're here on bill for the song on birth and parent'sorof, and as expected, there is a difference of opinion on this subject. In this bill, of course, there's a number one, two and three equalities, equal pay. We haven't reached the exact wage of women and men everywhere, and unfortunately, we're also, I think, in a kind of ancient age, with these values in the amount of money we both deposit in what is left of the womb and also the strength of our birth. The highest you could get is 600,000. and after tax returns it, if you enter it into the labour company calculator, 351,300 k. down payment. That's close to what the minimum wage in the country today is for the tax, the lowest worker's salary. But what beats me most in this regard is when you enter a person with whom there is no income. That's 80,341 k. For my part, I say, "Who's going to live on this?" This is the person to whom the 80,341 will be paid.: You cannot take care of your child. What should this person think? What's driving him out? How can we find out about this amount? This is such a shameful figure that I ask myself, " Who brought this figure? ' Who invented this number? And who'd think to put it in a bill? We know that a person with a child has 80,000 credits. - You don't even live on it alone, maybe for a week. However, the person with a child should live on this for up to two months. I'm just saying, how on earth are you doing? And then, if you enter a person with 300,000 bucks. In income, that's $24,000. And if we enter those that are e.g. antlers with 2 60,000 k, that gives 183,841K. This is completely incomprehensible. I object that there are so many numbers available, that we should not be--what should I say, not more developed or wiser than that. Where Is Justice? I can't get it. And these numbers we're putting into this bill. To pay for orbs from 600,000 k, but never less than 137.632 k. I would say they should never be lower than, for example. 300,000, or 350,000, which is the minimum wage in the country. No, they have 137,632K. It struck me a little when I was at the highest. A minister spoke of this as a workforce or a work system. But the sponsoric system, it must also be the Lawgiver's decision whether this is an acceptable monthly wage or not. And when you look at these figures, the pay for birth strength, these are 85,233 bucks, but a full - time parent can reach from 190,749 k. We know it's too low. I have to say, as I've been repeating repeatedly, that I really think this is going to be in Hóa Hood! But there is something else that we have been talking about. The old system is nine months, the new system is six months for both parents, a total of 12. I would have liked to see ambition immediately and only had it six months before whether a parent would be the parent, and then it could be a four - month choice. I believe a woman who gives birth won't produce anything because she has ten months if she thinks she needs it and wants it. I am convinced that the woman should have significantly more leeway than the two months that are now given in this bill because we know that she is the one who is going through the birth and that she needs to breast-feed the baby, and hence the responsibility is much more upon her. I think there needs to be more choice, so you have to make a choice and trust your parents to choose. I trust my parents 100% choice and move. I would have liked to see there, in this context, that women would have had seven months, and the man five I would have wanted to give more choice over there. I would have given four months' choice. If we had 12 months, for example, we could have had four, four, four. Then I am absolutely convinced that, in most cases, the greater part would have gone to the woman, eight months to four. It would have been much more reasonable, and I sincerely hope that the result will be the case when the matter comes to a welfare committee, and we'll consider it there. I hope somehow it will be possible to change that ignominious number. But forgive me, I'm shocked. I was giving a talk about living impairments in a person who was supposed to survive 80,341 bucks. per month. I said it wasn't poverty, it's in pain. I mean, who's gonna feed his kid in wound-punch? I wouldn't trust myself to do that, and I don't think anyone out there would trust him to try that at 80,000 bucks. per month. I wonder that the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs, who now has the title, should have this number in there. That's completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u110	Mr. President. A few of them. Today, members of Parliament have established the joy of giving a bill to the Council about extending the birthworm to 12 months, and the parent's motor for four months. This is, in fact, a great deal of news and joy. To me, these may be the basics of the bill we are discussing. This is of utmost importance to parents, and it is even more important to children. In the discussion that has been conducted both now and in reality. In the fall of the year much of the emphasis has been placed in the exchange of the time required for birthworm, i.e. where between two and three changing places, as the bill says, we should be. Hv. In their talks, members of the council have called it 0, 12, or four, four, four, or five, five, two, or six. Now we are actually talking about equal division, but by the space given, parents can decide between five and seven changes, if people want to. I think there's a nice person here, especially when you're looking at us not that way in Icelandic society -- I think we should just face it, huh? Councilmen - that it is a perfect match between men and women in the labour market. That's not where we're at. We'd like to get there, at least. Many of us, but we're not there yet, not yet. In exactly the same way, the Supreme One asked. Minister before, is this bill perfect? Is that the beginning and end of the entire discussion about parents and birthworm in Iceland? The answer, of course, is no, we are not there. But this is an important step. The committee was given, as I mentioned earlier, an excellent rush in the head to discuss and maybe to think about this matter and go through the discussion, not just the switch, but the second part of the bill. There was a considerable discussion of how to deal with rights when discussing either one parent or one absent parent. V.E.G. In his earlier language, a minister reviewed the fact that, of course, the bill is trying to approach those views. Something may have to scratch it out, and I really look forward to sharing in it at night. The welfare committee. It is also important, more honored President, that the change in the law at the time was made as if it were a prerogative for fathers in general to take birthworm in Iceland. That was not the case in the past, although it would have been authorized in itself. This is an enormously important step toward seeking equality. The financing that was then adopted by the birthworm system, i.e. The pay of everyone in the Icelandic labour market is covered by insurance, was a very important step toward, let's say, push society into equality. There's been a little talk about it, and I asked the highest. Minister on it before, if it wasn't time to set floors on the law, another floor, but to cut even the lowest wage in the labour market by 20% and actually pay them out of 268,000 dollars. in a month or approximately to those with the lowest salary. I can't wait to get that information from the highest level. Ministers, as he promised me in answer to this earlier question, for this is of vital importance regarding how far you can reach. That's at least you can think that it could be the next step toward improving the law and improving those rights even more because it really matters. I must say, Mr. President, I am more concerned about what I would call the lack of floor in the bill than if the roof is not high enough. I believe it's people who can't make less than 335,000. or about a month's play will be far more difficult to take on 20% than those with perhaps 800,000 bucks. a million. I think I just have to say that, Mr. President. This bill, as it has been shown here today, and not only by it but by the actions that have been taken during the season, we are making a decision to increase the pay of maternity vacations by 10 billion during the season. Of course, it is not perfect. But it is a big step to double payment in a single term to this important group of paintings. I think we can all agree on that. Some might view the birthorlation law or the right to maternity as a labour market policy, as stated in Article 1. The law of the law, and it's always done, is a matter of error, that it does not take enough into account that we are in fact ensuring children, too, with their parents. But then, of course, it is 2. The law, which is their primary objective. It can be debated from time to time as to what should be where, but the reality is that this was originally arranged as a labour market strategy. I think the debate, if we should get out of that system and transfer it completely to the rights system for children, is much larger discussions and more complex. I think we should stick to that now discuss this on the grounds that we are here with a very significant increase in the time when people in the labour market may have a partnership with their child after birth, and that is the main issue. Like other members of Congress, I am concerned that we have not yet bridged the gap between the termination of orcs and the time that children normally have a chance to get into preschool. I may have said something else that it is the next job. Of course, there are many of these to be done, so how can we continue to bridge this process? Today, a great many parents resolve this by distributing their maternity in just a little longer. But then let's figure it out, huh? According to members of Congress, we are limiting the resources to those with the high income that they can earn even more than 80% of their pay per month. It's very important to realize that. Then there is the second cheek, and it is the parents'orcs. Now I don't have numbers about how general parent-lofs is in this country. She's at least Someone and someone may wonder, " At some point, finding a way to use the device that can be used to bridge this gap. ' It would have to be natural then that families would be ensured by some means in the parents' home, but at least I think it's important. we wonder about the possibility of using this legal option. Finally, only about what has been planted in this discussion, that the level of birth is not sufficient. Well, I can totally agree with that. Let us not forget, though, that to form in the case of those who are on disability and who have all their income from there, social security benefits do not cut off from the birth reserves or the birth supply. On the other hand, during today's so - called vacation markets, birth levels may reduce social security benefits. I understand at least That's the law. I think we need to get this straight for what we're talking about. The welfare committee because this is a very important factor. We have to be completely open to see if we're gonna let it get up to some sort of impairmental cable, so to speak. I'm sure it's not the lawgiver's will, and it's hardly the will of the council to do so. A respectable president. Once again, it is happy that this bill has been released. We are not at the finish line in improving the rights of children and parents in Iceland, but this is a huge step, so we are to celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u111	A respectable president. We're here to discuss new overall legislation on birth and parentorof. How happy we are that the birthworm is being extended from nine months last month to 12 months, which is ten months this year, which changed through the past year! This new law on birth and parent's stock contains many things that are being corrected but still need further opinions, such as the situation of single parents and parents who give birth to stillless children, the status of guardians, and others, as well as the circumstances of those who live far away from birth services. The number of situations that developed in the government's consultations on this matter was illustrated by the number of issues that need to be discussed and discussed and how diverse this matter is. I look forward to dealing with these issues at the moment. The welfare committee. I have to say, though, that I was amazed at how little I got at the 280 comments that covered the matter on the consultation mystery. I think it's gonna be a role anyway. The welfare committee is meeting the concerns of all these comments. However, I would like to welcome one of the changes that have been made in the language since the moment it was in my consultation; the rights of parents to use their rights to birth would remain 24 months, not 18 months, as it was in the original bill of communication. So I intend to focus my attention on this talk, especially on the point of which is the most controversial and important thing in this matter. There is a division of the 12 months between parents and the space given to parents to adjust the birthworm to the best of the family situation and thus to ensure the child's best interests. As a parent, it is a responsible responsibility to be a parent and to watch your child grow up. Parents and governments are obliged always to do what is best for the child. And we need to do it in the way of time. We are living in a changing society where equality has increased and the intervening sector of the sex is equal. New generations have developed an increased level of equality, family values have grown and have developed, and the variety of family formulations and family conditions has increased dramatically. We are not yet in a society where only a man and a woman formed a family, and the man worked two or three working out jobs with endless extra hours while the woman was at home caring for the home. Happily, this has already been the case. Thus, the government does not guarantee the child's advantage and right to be the best partners with both parents by being custody and by law, according to the demands of the labour market. Governments provide the best interests of a child by providing parents with the most freedom and space they can afford to care for each family so that they will suit the child properly and thus give parents the opportunity to live up to the responsibility of raising a child. It has many other features of the birthworm, one of which is flexible. In confirmation of this, families have become ever more diverse and varied. To deal with your child's interests in such varied situations, there is no way to write laws that cover all of them. You must trust your parents, who know your circumstances best and how they will work best, and we must take it into account. Under these conditions, e.g. A surgeon, midwives, and a number of parents and other members who sent in envelopes on this matter's consultations. Today, families live in a more varied work market, where family values have changed considerably. In the ten years I worked as a police officer, I personally noticed how fast that changed. It was now known that the police worked a lot of overtime, and they took many extra shifts while building their house and so on. At the very least, when I started with the police about 2004, there was extra shifts. It was just one of the easiest things to do for the police administration to extra shifts, all ready to take them. But soon after I started with the police, people began to feel that it became much more difficult, since family time was much more important. Today it's been very difficult. We're talking about biographies and other things about short work weeks and stuff like that. Family and child - care policies are proof that the family is having a much stronger position. Caring for children has also changed as the position of equality has improved, so we have to look at these legislation based on the results we have achieved and on other devices that have come into the equal struggle. And speaking of equality and whether we should use the maternity law as a very powerful equality tool, which was just in its time when it arrived in 2000, we need to look at the changing circumstances and move much more into looking at the child's interests when we have achieved so much success. Still, by looking at a transition, we continue to work on equality. That is not to say that it is to rule out equality. The reality is that mothers wear the baby, and in much of the cases they choose to take the months they have and divide it to 12 months to extend the ore. By this procedure, the payments they receive each month decline from a birth ordinary reserve, and they are at the same time more financially dependent on their mate or the other parent. I can't see a lot of equality in this. But speaking of these payments and the need to divide them into months, and other things, I think it's in the child's best interest that he gets the 12 months of care with his parents. Then let us bear in mind that we rarely get a 12-month patch in which parents choose to spend with the child at least the first half of the month and usually the first month after the birth of a child. It is often taken off before it is born, and it needs to be looked into. That's not how we've managed to bridge the gap where most of our societies are secured with daycare from 12 months of age and hardly, I think, can be spoken for that, so there's still a gap, as has been much discussed here, which needs bridges. I understand where the idea of a split, six, six, comes from in this discussion. All numbers show that according to the right of the parent who didn't take the baby, there's an increase in income. If we just talk like everybody thinks it, then the fathers will take the month they're assigned. That is why it is important to increase the rights because it is said to the mother that they will not allow them to have what is right, so it is important to extend this. Unfortunately, that's what they say. Then follow the next argument, that it is in the child's best interest to receive equal care, would be as much connected with both parents and would know both parents as well. I agree with that. A bond with both parents is extremely important, and that is the child's right. But I just don't think this transition will achieve this goal. There is a big difference between three months and six months, and the circumstances can be greatly affected. It is not necessarily possible for a spouse who did not take the full use of the three months, if increased by six, to be able to do so or to maintain a position allowing all six months to be used. You don't know when you're getting a divorce. If he separates somewhere in there, then one, two, and up to three months that the child had received, as was often said in the discussion about this on the consultation and elsewhere. That's not what we want. It is not in the child's best interests that months fall to pieces. I also want to come into the process that it is not only important for my child to stay with his parents and take care of them but also a situation to maintain and balance, a calm, relaxed, relaxed atmosphere; it is all about breastfeeding, the first impression of the child, and the development of this relationship. It will not be possible if economic anxiety is at the root of parents. That's why I'm very concerned that we're setting laws that are the worst for the families who have the lowest income. This shows many figures and facts from Sweden and other places, that if the income - greater parent has to take six months into the maternity store on only 80% of the income that was too low for the home, then a new child is in the home, and people have to be in six months on only 80% of income to get the child all the months of care that he is entitled to, according to the birthal law, we don't know what position we're putting it to family life and how the baby's relationship will be in that condition. This is an enormous point we need to keep in mind. Now there is a wide variety of family compositions. There is mother and mother, father and father and other such. Women's employment programs have multiplied and have become more equal, always paying more and more, and in so many situations a large brother, i.e. The lawgiver, be in the parent's office, and say: "How are you doing the best you can? We're going to write it into the law. It just doesn't work. All of us are proud of the results we have achieved by means of the law that we now have. We're very proud of it. That is why we need to change from what we see it done and from the fact that we have been successful with many other options and continue to work on it. In this hall, we have often talked about the woman's self - determination rights. Then I ask, " Where is the family self - determination right? ' And so just like this: I know that birth is not a disease, but this is a different test of the woman's body, and breast-feeding varies from time to time: conditions are different, so we have to let families have room out of all these changed circumstances. To reach these goals, I don't think it's right to divide this period into six months and six. I think it's a minimal media, until we're even further in equality and even further in all of this, having the four, four, four, four. I think it's the right split at this time. Then we're continuing with the system we've been on, but in the future, we're going to realize that the family is in charge of all of this. By giving more freedom now, we will see how modern - day generations have a completely different view. It would be a good assessment of the situation of equality, the roles of the sexes, and family and other factors. It would be a good way to have more freedom. Finally, I'm just going to say this: In order to reach the goals that are being achieved by the bill, we need to raise the pay, that will help to achieve this goal, and we need to increase the number of months further because 12 months will not be enough. We are to do whatever we can to help the families of this country to have children and to increase their numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u112	President. We'll talk to the board about a birth and parent's wedding that says it's a 12-month holiday. It suggests a switch where each parent receives six months, but it is permitted to hand over one month to the other parent. I must admit that I feel sad that I could not have done better than I can say, since this long time - long, time operation was taken to promote the birthworm system and extend the birthworm. As in so many times before, politics has to be at least A decade if not two decades behind the wind. As far as I can see, it's the firm will of the government to keep out of time and not listen to the appeal of society in this important welfare. This is shown by the fact that while 85% of stories were received through the bill, an increase in flexibility in the exchange of the wormor was not seen. It's an old story and new one in Iceland's welfare, in cooperation with the job life, wanting to direct or indirect family decision making in this way. This need to be changed, and we have the opportunity to do so in this matter in these weeks to come. The logic given to this conclusion is that the equality and right of a child to be reunited with both parents has gained weight. The chairman of the Commission on the review of the law said, in fact.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ In our community, it is not an option to tell about your children's upbringing, and the lawgiver is not to encourage or give an opportunity to do so. President. Let us see. Does the lawgiver, first of all, necessarily benefit a child, that a parent who has little or no desire to participate in its training is forced by legislation on the distribution of holiday? I'm not entirely convinced that it is. Second, I wondered, " Why does the Lawgiver view it as his job to stand here in a certain way to raise his upbringing? ' It's called in my opinion of good government. Because governments are concerned about the relationship between parents and children, they could even consider giving parents more support during pregnancy and immediately after a completely different course and in cooperation with a professional professional in these matters. The one standing here thinks it's pretty sure it's at least... not the way to achieve that goal. Of course, we are very happy that we have arrived at a place where we can give parents more time to care for their children, and for the first time, we are in the womb of 12 months. But better, if it's enough. And, of course, the decision is to be out of the child's needs, especially the children's needs, so that the spectrum of life offers different personal circumstances for each child and parent and family. Now I speak out of considerable experience, Mr. President, since I am the own mother of four children with children aged seven to 20 years, and therefore four times I have been on this trip today. Then I want to add others to this discussion by my own experience. He is that there may be other needs for a family when a first child shows up or a third child comes into the family. It can be a completely different landscape, and everything else is suitable for the way things are in the family at any given time. Of course, the most important factors for stakeholders are the right control of the time of birth. That's normal. Of course, it is reasonable to make a decision regarding the birthal exchange entirely in the hands of parents. There is an out - of - date view in this regard, an out - of - date view in which the State views itself in a certain way as lord of a party and seeks to dictate a very personal decision within the privacy of the home. So, Mr. President, I ask: How would it be for parents simply to decide for themselves how they limit the limited time they get from their work to take care of their own child in the beginning of their life? Parents can be sure of this, for parents make a number of choices and decisions for their children every day. Not everything would go on this side, although the birthworm period was arranged by the parents themselves and by their own heads. President. The structure of the committee that discussed the matter, of course, indicates the result. There were experts in the workforce's affairs that organized the committee. So I ask: Why did no expert on matters relating to the development of infants or the pregnancy and birth of the committee? It should then be noted that for some reason the history of the surgeon and the midwives in the processing of the bill was not taken into account. Similarly, the work of the Committee itself lacks considerable transparency. Well, as far as I know, there are no visitors in the meeting projects. So I would like to direct it to the minister if it was not reasonable to inform about those meeting the committee. The minister mentioned in his talk that such a bill cannot be tailored to the needs of all. Rather, it would be appropriate to have more space within the system so that each parent, each family, could tailor it to its own needs, not to the needs of the economy, as this bill clearly shows willingness to do. Similarly, experience shows that orlof's division can be very difficult for immigrants. It can, for example, be there. cultural differences played a major role. Similarly, the parent's health may play on how to divide the mouth, now or next to the child, or even some outside situation. But I'd like to reiterate that I'm happy that now it's time to extend the birthmark of parenthood, and of course it will come to pass. A welfare committee where I'm sitting. I look forward to working with the bill and wish for the benefit of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u113	A respectable president. We're here to discuss important issues, bill to legalize your birth and parent's course. At last, after a very long time, it is so time for a mother and mother to have a baby together for a year, which is certainly a progressive step, and it has been a long time. I want that at first hour, in the 1st. about this matter, about the big words, the big line, the big position taken on this bill, and not going too much into detail at this point, I think that the welfare committee will keep a good hold of the issues and find out the good results of the baits that could be found in this bill. On the other hand, I have to talk only about the subjects I handled with the highest. Minister Ásmundur the Einar son of Daðason in answer to his testimonial, the objective of these laws on equality and equality, whether the objectives of these laws are really achieved by the methods used in the bill. The objective is according to the bill itself, with the permission of the president, to guarantee a child to be reunited with both parents. Then these laws are intended to enable parents to coordinate family and employment. There have been comments that, of course, this right should be the right of the child to be together with both parents, certainly, but it is not always the reality of both parents. The goal of enabling parents to bring together family and professional life is, of course, good too. But I wondered, " Is it not our goal to harmonize employment with family life? ' Aren't we going back to the wrong end? It's always parents, it's always mothers who should adapt to the workforce's needs, not the other way around. And because we're talking about individuals now rather than some unspecified labour market, I want to say that equality is certainly a noble goal. But we must be moderate in the way we present individuals'rights. For example, when it is aimed at ensuring equality between men and women in the labour market, as it seems to me to be an underlying goal, consider whether there are other and milder ways than to limit parents'rights to use birth and parental rights in this way. by developing a positive impulse for fathers to take parentorof, e.g. by offering financial benefits for families to have children. Indeed, there is a national advantage in providing families with the ability to have children. As the situation is now, having children usually involves loss of income, financial loss. But if we think only ahead of time, beyond the next few years and the following years, we know that the distribution and development in Icelandic society are growing older and we are getting fewer and fewer young to keep the workforce and society going. We must want it to be an incentive for greater balance than for young, grown, and elderly alike. There is a tremendous national advantage in the fact that women see a positive outcome for them, including financially, to have children. Because what's the situation we're in now? We have a young generation that is worse off than their parents financially, the first generation in a century that is worse off with their own money, with housing, advancement, and security than their parents. The whales of this generation that are now born with children are few. The lack of support for children's families is a small one and taking a birthworm cost money, a direct amount of money for families because they only earn 80% of their income, and you lose 20% of your income if you take a holiday with your child, and a considerable increase in income if the monthly wage is more than 600,000 dollars. every month or 800,000 k, however you calculate these 20% to. The situation today is negative toward childbearing, and there are negative incentives for taking birthworm. I just feel like I'm starting the wrong end here. I want to encourage people to have children. We want to respect the right of all children to associate with their parents. Do not do so by terms of parental control. It's like putting people in a financial straitjacket, a baby, or the money. Either you can provide a financial basis for your child's living a decent life or you can enjoy association with your child. These are the options we are offering now in the name of equality. But we must ask, "Just as I am right for who? ' Is this equal for the children? Is it possible to discriminate between children in which one parent is a earner than the other, since families cannot see how to divide the worm as well as the other because it would include too much money for the home, for the family? Granted, more than a portion of men who earn more than women do not make it necessary for fathers whose mothers have more money than their mothers have the privilege of enjoying 12 months with their parents as do children with mothers who have more money than their father, or where their parents are in some amazing way as demanding. These differences between immigrants'children. We have heard accounts of midwives who report that, for example, there is a lack of faith in God's promises. Some Polish fathers are threatened with loss of employment, they dare take the birthworm. They're people with little backlands here, often little right protection, little support in the system. Justification is a noble goal, but we need to ask ourselves, " Does it serve equal terms? ' that similar cases are treated in a comparable way, in different ways. I'd like to repeat what I spoke to the highest. A minister who opposes him that the difference between the sexes is not as decisive as when it comes to having children. Truly, pregnancy should not have a negative impact on a woman's career. How can we counteract the negative consequences of this important role of women without affecting their children without showing favoritism? This bill doesn't deal with it. It does not answer that question. I also feel that it takes better to meet women, and I feel that professional life should be better able to cope with women because we also benefit from our secular life because we have plenty of young people to share in the blessed careers. It takes to walk with children and to have them and for women to take one month of their maternity rights each month before the scheduled date of birth, that month of the child's so - called independent right to the parent, just the parent who's supposed to be breast-feeding, and the parent who needs a month or two or even longer to recover from childbirth. But it's like it's no part of the variable. No, it should be divided completely, completely from a very variable amount of work for men and women when it comes to having children. At least I think I'm sorry. It is important to adapt the labour market to the needs of children's families and to offer, e.g. a tax charge or a scholarship to an enterprise which is supported by all genders or what it would be like if we were to at least Do you not place family members in a financial straitjacket? We should make financial contributions to families and support children, so we should not limit the income of children. I just want to say again that we're not getting younger as a nation. It is a national advantage for raising children and helping children to cope with family problems, but a positive, non - negative impulse is needed. Now the goal is to ensure that a father takes a birth certificate just like a woman. True, the Lawgiver can influence legalization toward equality. At times, it is better not to approach with authority from above by giving people no choice but with positive motivation, with encouragement. I'd like to finally point out a word that's the highest. A minister in his transportation address, which spoke of the fact that there could never be a birthmark system that fit every parent's needs and I would like to say, the highest. President, that this very attitude is what's wrong with this bill. The needs of all parents. If this bill is intended to ensure that children stay together with their parents, if the right is the children, then we must build a bill that meets the needs of all children away from their parents'status, whether they are male or female or any other sex. We must see that discrimination is not justified on the grounds of a parent who has more money than the other parent, that parent is a immigrant, that is not one absent parent, or that has a father who is not prepared to take an inheritance for some reason. We must want to get to the birthworm law with the goal of meeting the needs of all children. I find it incredibly boring to the highest. Ministers of Social Affairs and Child Affairs look so badly past the child's rights in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u114	A respectable president. We're gonna talk about something very interesting here and just great. I don't think we have to forget, in all this discussion, how important a step we are taking by moving the birthworm up to 12 months. Never forget that. That, of course, is the big step. We've done it in stages. Children born this year will have ten months with their parents, and next year it will be up to 12 months. And then we can go on and on and on and on and on whether it's supposed to be even further. Some of the countries we often compare with are more or less pregnant, but we also need to realize that some countries have just little or no maternity. That's why I think we can all shout a little humorous to this matter. It matters, and it's a big deal for families. But this is also a huge community and equality issue. I heard someone. A senator--now I'm wondering who it was, that was definitely a reason. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter - discuss this as an equal case that would be part of our foreign discussion. I'm going to join in, as it were. I'm in trouble too. The Foreign Affairs Committee and the United States have welcomed foreign embassies from other countries. In the meetings I've been sitting here, where foreign senators have come and wanted to talk to us, there are two of the main issues that have been discussed, Arctic and equal. Therefore, it is important that we not forget the large and great step we took here in the year 2000 when new birth laws were adopted, as both parents were granted the right to take the birth stock of their children. I think that was one of the biggest and most important steps in the equal struggle. In a perfect world, I would say that the birthworm belonged only to the baby, and families should decide what was best for them. Unfortunately, though, we put world record here every year and are in first place when it comes to the equality of the sexes, equality is not achieved. A respectable president. Therefore, when we discuss this matter, I think it is inevitable to bear in mind the power and importance of equality. It's not just about the birthworm itself, the first month of the baby's life that is of utmost importance, and it's important that both parents have the opportunity to enjoy together with their child and the importance of the child's right to enjoy together with both parents. You see, it goes so much deeper. This has an impact on the progress of women in the labour market. This affects the pay balance, and this also affects the future role of women in the household, the role of women in that unpaid work. You see, fathers who have an opportunity to be together with their baby during the first few months of their life are more likely to be more active in training and caring for their children for the rest of their lives. Hence, there are, of course, many things that we need to keep in mind when discussing this important matter. At the same time, I completely understand the viewpoint of those who say that the family should take care of this as best they can. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir came on the birth rate and the importance of giving families a good environment and actually encouraging having children. It is estimated that the birth rate has to be more than two babies per mother, today about 1.7. It appears that by 2050, there will be twice as many working hands on each pensioner. In 2012 there were 5.6 working at the age of 67 years and older. In 2061 it appears that it will be 2.4. Of course, it's an equation that doesn't work out. One way that has gone is that we have invited foreigners here to work. Of course, the main issue is that we need to ensure an acceptable birth rate. I'm not going to recommend some Polish way and pay more women for having children and living, but it's a social matter, that we encourage young people to start a family and have the opportunity to care for them at the same time as these young people have the opportunity to pursue their career in a job market and other activities that life offers. Young people just require it today. I've been disintegrating myself about exactly the best approach when it comes to this fine transition. I've thought we should keep this together, though with some flexibility. The first thoughts were about five, five, two. In fact, I've criticized other members of the council when that has been spoken, it's a bit like talking about some sort of formation in ball games, five, five, two or four, four, four or something I don't fully understand. This means that there is a division between parents and what is in this common pot. I think there's one very good thing in the approach of the bill available here, i.e. to match both parents' rights, but to say that one month, as in this case, may be changed. Somehow, if we had to go further on accepting a viewpoint, I would say that we should still have this base and say: Okay, possibly two months. Then I'm talking about these are the rights of individuals and that they can agree to make them different. The discussion of this common hot tub has also resulted in men being viewed as horny at the workplace as passing over their own rights. That's a real problem. At the same time, women are inclined to have their rights fully, which in this case are their rights and their common pots. It's been a bit of a culture. I'm happy that we can move out of it and talk about their parents'independent rights, though there may be reasons why there is something practical between parents according to their individual circumstances. A respectable president. I've been interested in this case for quite some time, i.e. prolongation of the birthworm and its importance for young families, also on the basis of equality. I have to admit, though, that I hadn't given much thought to it more than a year ago, in December of December, when we discussed it here with an extension of a maternity clinic by 2020. Since then, I've done it considerably. I have also enjoyed this conversation in many groups. I'm going to have to share it here, a respectable president, that I contacted my good relatives, my cousins' cousins group, as they call him my cousins, all my younger ones, I'm most beloved. So they're in this famous childbearing age. It was evident that these fine women had strong opinions that the family should have chosen how the mouth should be divided. But then he went on to form my 27 - year - old brother with no children, who said: "No, of course, this should be the right of his parents. He felt just as important that he had the same rights to take the birthmark as his mother's. He's a big student in charge, has been in the management school, and his opinion is that this is definitely a huge equal figure. Now I'm not going to say that I know what the true truth is about how much parents should be able to divide. But I think we need to remember in all this discussion that we are really on the right track. We are to remember how good and important the matter is, though we may be able to handle some type of game control change; four, four, four, five, five, two or six, six, and one in between or six, six, and two. As I told you before, a respectable president, I believe that we watch parents'rights and wonder what they can switch between us, but we try to get out of the discussion of a so - called joint pot. Based on what I have studied, the experience is that the woman takes that part of the vacation. It is not merely that she will take that part and want it to take it. Rather, it is socially expected of her. Experience, both here and in the North, shows that fathers take less often from this so - called joint pot. I welcome this matter very much. This is very important and good, and I wish you would. The welfare committee is successful in going over it and achieving a good landing and approach that most of us can accept. And I'd also like to say that I think it is very important that we provide just the rights of single parents or parents who for some reason cannot give their child so that the child will not be fully bitten.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for his speech and a very interesting introduction. I agree with her that the balance in society, in terms of working hands on every pensioner, certainly does not work out. I wanted to talk to what. A senator's moderate behavior and the means to achieve goals such as, for example, the following: Equality. If we had two options, commandments, and bans, or positive incentives, to promote equality, would it not be better to work at positive motivations rather than to put people in this box? Everyone needs to be able to fit in with it, especially if the basis should be to ensure the child's right to join the parent. I heard why. A senator speaks a lot of the rights of his parents. But does she not agree that being together with your parents is, of course, the fundamental course of the child's right? It is not always possible to do so evenly. With the approach to this bill, the government has a bit to tell parents how this should be, it should be as good a knife as any other person's situation, to make sure that fathers are more involved in raising their children and are more likely to take the birthworm. Hv. A senator also mentioned that men are looked forward to taking advantage of this more than their own rights, and women may also be if they are not making full use of their own rights. Would it not be correct, then, when a positive motive is being developed toward the workplace and the people there, to stop these restrictions? Is it not possible for us to work on the same goals without preaching, banning them, and rather with positive motives?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. My first answer is that I view payments for those in the maternity clinics as positive motivations, not commandments and bans. No one is known to take a maternity or to accept payment from a birth - stock reserve, so to me, these are exactly positive incentives for both sexes to enjoy a happy union with their child, both to them and to the child. I just agree that these are the rights of children. I talked about it as a family, but it's also a community and huge equality, and it all hangs out. I think one of the best things we can do for the children who are born this year and next year and who enjoy this holiday is also working to improve social equality. I've always looked at it as if it were a birth vacation fund and that we were increasing people's rights to take birth holidayes, that's exactly what rights there are, that's why. No one here is saying that people need to take six months on their birthport; of course, everyone can choose to take less time. Those with financial resources can also choose to take a longer birth easily. Of course, that's what we've seen in increasing numbers, women always take longer than the pay and share it. For example, when I had my second child, I took as an example a year's baby. When the third baby was born, I decided to quit my job and become a homeworker. That was my choice and my family. Then, of course, I accepted only payment from a birth vacation fund in accordance with the rights that existed then. As I say, I have considered this primarily an enormously positive and positive impulse, i.e. The birthworm and our system in question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It may be a matter of where we look at things, what the motivations are. If we are thinking of motivation to get men to be more diligent in using their maternity rights, would it be best to say that these six months do not become a maternity leave unless the father takes them, and if the father doesn't just take the child? That's what I'm saying with rules and regulations. Hv. A senator says that no one is disabled to go to a baby's ordinary. A parent who has given birth to a child, as mentioned in Article 8. the bill should remain in place at least for the first six months after the birth of a baby. This may tell us a certain story about how things are not quite equal when it comes to having children. I'm not sure having this sort of knifelike thing carries real equality. During the last month of pregnancy, many women are very difficult. In all the states of the North, it is part of the woman's own right to be on leave from week 36 on both the baby and herself. It will then take time to recover from childbirth, but all of this will be taken from the woman's own right. These six months shall be taken from the woman's own rights. Of course there are all kinds of exceptions, e.g. if women become seriously ill, if they receive proof or work in a dangerous workplace. But I'd like to state that I'm talking about normal food that everyone has problems with the past month and only regular stress during the past month can lead to premature delivery. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it really equal to the fact that this is exactly the same when these roles are divided? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u118	A respectable president. No, I'm not going to argue that it's a completely equal case when it comes to the pregnancy and birth of a baby. That's not true at all. Me and what. A senator knows this, and I have walked with three children, and she is pregnant with her first child - truly happy about it - that it will work out. Therefore, women can take the birthworm sooner if they wish to do so. But it is true that when the baby is born, it will go to court. Women are also often what is often called a ◯ decrepit, if their circumstances are such that they are unable to do their job and are on sick leave for the last part of their pregnancy. It is very common for women to lose their jobs in the past month or at the end of pregnancy. There is, of course, additional rights if the woman becomes seriously ill either before or after her pregnancy. And, of course, there are rights that we need to look to, and I completely agree with that. We haven't reached equals, I said here before, and I'm not about to fight for both sexes walking with a child, that's impossible. This is one of the things we will never change. There will always be other viewpoints when it comes to women, so, of course, most mothers take their maternity immediately. Of course, this is the case with a sick license. They need this babylike thing. But as I said before, I look at this primarily as a big, important, positive step. I have not seen it as some kind of commandment or ban but rather a positive motivation, that we are offering people the possibility of getting paid from a birth vacation fund and enjoying association with their child. I'm afraid the biggest step in my life is to encourage fathers to take more oreganos is covered on payment, and I say, unfortunately, men are still paying more than women, and there's no equality in it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why it was important when we increased the roof, and I think we need to watch an even further increase in that roof. [[The president calls.]] I think it's the biggest thing to do next time we've reached this great case about a 12-month birthday or something. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u119	Madam President. We've had an excellent conversation tonight about this matter of maternity and parent stock. It reminds me that about a year ago, I've been right here after what happened. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who had just discussed this exchange. Somehow, we were starting to sound like we were discussing limits, this is either six, six or five, two, seven, or 12. That's what I'm going to talk about. Let's just say 12. I, along with my members of the Central Party Congress, plan to make some adjustments in this bill that parents have the right to share with their children for 12 months and, in the same way, the right to divide these 12 months as is best for the child and to be the best for parents. There are countless opinions that wake up when reading the bill. To illustrate, in the chapter on the occasion and need of the law, the need for a period of 20 years is now that the law on birth and parentorof was accepted, and it is therefore appropriate to adapt the maternity system to the extent to which society has developed, and I agree with it, including equality and the sex status of the labour market. It is certainly a labor market plan, as it is called, but at the same time, it needs to include a parent's perspective, what is appropriate for them, and for the child at the same time. In my opinion, in this bill it is quite decided to determine whether a parent should take six months, let's say, within a step of time, which is so allowed to divide one month between each other. This is said to be to meet the circumstances of families. It may be true that there is some justice in that statement, but I cannot quite see how this is to stand up for the time we are living in today's world, especially how this will benefit the sex situation in a labour market. Parents'circumstances vary, and what happens if one parent is unable to take six months? Will they fall? As we have discussed, your child will be given only the opportunity to enjoy the company of one parent. Of course, parents want to be with their children, and what is evident in this bill will only make possible feelings of guilt and even shame when a parent is unable to take advantage of things for some reason. It is normal for the child to receive the 12 months, on the basis of our adjustments, and for the parents, these are the ones that divided the months between him and him. In this bill, you might take a closer look at the circumstances. We know, for example. that some parents live in separate parts of the country, even in separate lands, and there is no particular concern that the parents'circumstances, which do not allow their child to live in a nursery school within the time frame of the bill. I feel like this bill only means that a parent or parents have only one child, that we are always talking about some single action, and not a second child at all, and not even a third. It may well be that at some point it is suitable for parents to share the orloft, but then when the next child is born, it is best that one parent take the whole worm, and the third one becomes even more so, depending on the needs of the other. This is what I feel is forgotten during the discussion. It's also strange that in the bill, there's talk of nurserys as daycare. With President's permission, I'm going to quote the bill: ▪ The parents'right to observatory for 12 months is a step toward reducing the gap between parents'birth or holiday rights and until a child offers a day - to - day delivery at preschool. This makes me feel special, since the school is like most of us know as first school level and the job there is not related to daycare. I would have understood this sentence in the bill of birth and parentorof 20 years ago, as has been repeated so far today, but I don't understand it being put that way in this bill. It must also be noted that in more detail, most of which seemed to be from women, i.e. individuals were women, suggested the importance of parents'having more leeway, called for extra space so that they could decide for themselves what the exchange should be. There were 228 individuals who sent in a review, and there are a considerable number. It is a joy, though, to end well, that this time period has been cut short by parents. It was said that he would be cut down to 18 months when the logs were engaged but are now 24 months short, which is a direct need for space. It is also good to meet single - parent families. It is important that governments do all they can to enable parents to use maternity code. It is also very important that the government does not place parents in the boring position of choosing and rejecting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u120	President. Thank you. A senator on the tour. I'd like to ask a few questions about the proposed changes. Hv. A senator, if I understood correctly, said that it was so that 12 months, however. I'd like to ask you what. A senator has no concern that such a relapse in the equal struggle might arise. Of the many comments received in consultation, the same was true. for reviews from Iceland's Women's Rights Association, which says, on the permission of a president: In particular, Iceland's National rights Association is pleased that in this bill the right to birth and parentorlofs is evenly divided between parents, rights that will help improve the status of women, and increase the sex equal rights of this country. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she is not worried that if he is gone all the way in which his parents can divide the matter, this could be a significant setback. Iceland's Women's Rights Association is a good authority or an excuse, Mr. President, on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u121	V.E.G. President. I'm not worried that there's going to be a setback in itself. I based it on the fact that there are more than 200 people who turn in the entitlement of confidentiality, individuals who generally do not have the opportunity, or who do not take advantage of the opportunity, even if they can, to post a review when it comes to Congress. It tells me that people are very alert to what is being done. I'll allow me to doubt that we should take a child, for example, into that equation, i.e. when a person has a child and needs to set his own standards, so that everything can work as it should, that he is equal to the level that needs to be taken into account, that equality or equality should be most prominent at that point. Just because I understand what's wrong. A senator means I think it's a lot bigger than that. I am convinced that parents should have the right to share with them what they want to do for the first few months, the child's first months, and their lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u122	President. Yes, I think we're right next. A senator says we have a big deal to watch. There are few things that are more important in people's lives than just having a child and their first month in life. This has only been a matter of how the experience has become and how this can affect and how other divisions could develop. We're only starting to play with wondering what could happen. President. Another reference in the conference is from a number of scholars in the University of Iceland, which include: look to other countries about the experience from there, by permission of the President: ▪ Can it be asked whether twenty - year - old experiences in the use of fathers have not changed their thinking in ways that independence can be reduced without cutting down a father's holiday? The answer is no, if it's recent Norwegian experience. Norway was the first to legalize specific rights of fathers to four weeks of vacation in 1993. In 2014, the government under Erna Solberg decided to reduce the number of weeks a father was entitled to permafrost, from 14 to 10 weeks. As a result, fathers immediately withdrew from Orlf's take, so the government in 2018 decided to increase the number of ogressible fathers again and now for 15◯19 weeks (by the high proportion of fathers choosing to be paid by their previous income [...] It was as it was recommended to man, as the right of fathers grew back, and has never been more than 2020. That's why I'm asking, Mr. President, if you like. This example from Norway does not really show us the real danger that if fathers' independence rights to vacation are not present, fathers simply don't take holiday.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u123	V.E.G. President. Everything's right. A senator came in with Norway, and I recall that when we opened the orlof to our fathers, they did not have a roof on their payments, so they worked very hard to raise up what they got out of the pot by taking a baby vacation. When the roof was put on, the numbers returned. What I'm doing with this is that there are other devices, there are other incentives to get fathers to take birth and parentorof. I also think it is important to mention, since we are discussing individual relationships, that I remember that mental health at the last time we discussed the matter, that if we were discussing a healthy child and his family, it would be very important to create and give space for this flexibility. Similarly, we can quote the statement of a surgeon who felt that it was best to increase the flexibility. It's that mine knows what we're supposed to do. I trust parents to split up the months they have to play, and I don't think it's my job to decide how families in this country can do their best, whether there are two parents or one.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u124	Mr. President. I'm not much of a pompous ass, and I'm not having any of this Iceland's best fun in a world that sometimes gets started, especially when we get off the cliffs and tell about our good country. Yet, I am quite ready to say that the Icelandic birthworm system is on a global scale. It is not perfect, and it is long time for us to change, but it is with all the best birthworm systems in the world. Actually, the North countries have the best system combined. What we're doing here today is picking up the best that has been tried in neighboring countries in comparable systems into our system so that it will be as close as possible to being perfect. This has Iceland done the other way. What we have brought to our neighbors in the North countries is the distribution of fathers' vacations. It was opened to the home of our fathers in 1980 with motivation, as it is called, but not with an obligatory invitation. I run the number, hope the President forgives me, but the participation of fathers with that impulse was 0%. It was not really a father who was born in 1980/2000. By the year 2000, the law we are changing was accepted here today. Then the father's serpent was made three steps. First month, the year after two months, in the third year, five months. Now I run down the statistics again: The first year, on average, a father took 30 days, not a day. In the second year, fathers averaged 60 days, not a day. In the third year of the induction, fathers took 90 days and no more day. It may be a bit difficult to recognize this, but the situation is that the sex system, which controls how this community views the role of men and women, fathers and mothers, and people who have many different roles in society, enables us to see even the statistics of the birthor system. Mothers are all right together, including Because society expects mothers to be better at caring for their children than fathers. But that is exactly what we want to change. We want to make fathers as hardworking as mothers in caring for their children. At the same time, we need some flexibility because society is much more diverse than it fits into some rigid frame. Then we will have the special solutions for single parents or when a parent does not enjoy illness or what it is like. That's how we usually put our arms around each other. But it remains that children's basic interests in this regard are as much and as best associated with parents. The fundamental interests of children are social equality, which also involves increasing female employment and equal pay, the product of the birthworm system. And the interests of children are also an equality in the home. Simply put, the father's ability to stand up to his own pedicure at home increases when he takes a birthworm. We will only be better at caring for family obligations in the same way with the person we live with. It's incredibly boring that we need some rigid system to act like nice men, but it seems that it's part of breaking out of our sex system that we only have to force ourselves to do that. The most important involvement of fathers in raising their children, including children, is that of children. We too are taught to be parents because our role as parents, such as all other roles we take in, is something we need to learn. We will not learn this by handing all the food we have left to our mate and going to work hard and by having no knowledge of anything at home. No, we learn this by dealing with it. That's why I'm holding on to the implementation as the highest. A minister brings in on the split of the months - in a perfect world, she wouldn't have to be so stiff. In a perfect world, all of this would not have to be settled, but the fact is that we just don't live in this perfect world in which we all want to live. This rigid force is vital to keep us from living in the perfect world, where fathers train children and other household chores just like mothers. On the way from the seminar and so forth to the council did the highest. Minister, the only change I would like to mention, in particular, that is of great importance. It extended again the period that can be taken from 18 months to 24 months. This is a positive change that increases the parental room for the birthworm to fit their circumstances. Still, we must recognize that this is a positive change because the gap between birth or school and school has not been covered. The most positive change would be that it could be made at 18 months because after 12◯18 months children were assured that they would be saved in preschool. I'm sorry it didn't go any further. This was mentioned here in the Assembly Hall less than a year ago. This is where it sits. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who, by permission of the President, put it down so well that I wrote it down: It simply has to be a matter of setting up some plans that the rural society and the local events need to do something even more, helping to close this hole. This was urgent a year ago, and now, I'm sorry, Mr. President, the Minister is just a little on his ass with this. It's a year before these laws are due to be performed and I can't see that the hole on the other side of that time will have been bridged. This would have had to start much earlier. We have several times in connection with the birthor of this strain between the birthworm system and the social support network. It's a bit of a crisis because it's one of the main strengths of the system that it's the right operating system in cooperation with the labor movement. Thus, by cooperating with the labour market partners, we will ensure a steady, fairly efficient funding of the system, using the insurance fee to finance this. Given many other major changes, it is not so much a matter of taking some 10 billion steps in the birthworm system, in view of a universal insurance system. But this is also weakness because the social part will be out of the way. We've been over here tonight, and all you have to do is fix it on the next round. But I would like to direct it as strong as possible to the welfare committee to see if it can't be fixed now. As a matter of fact, it could have just been fixed up at the Ministry because both the Ministry have work market issues and the social issues. They're people who work in the same office that could have solved it there. It was noted in a inquiry that I received an answer from a minister about a year ago that there are two groups of mothers who do not take full advantage of maternity. They are the ones who need to rely on the level of birth, as indicated by the bill, 83,000 taps. This month for non-employers and 190,000 bucks. for students. However, it is low wages women, the women with the lowest salary. They can't afford to get 20% in maternity vacations. They're on enough pay for it. What has to be done for these groups, and it has to be done now, is hauling them up. People need to be assured that in the first few months of a child's life - style, it's the best thing for children to do that parents aren't letting death out of their heads but that they can have it on and off. We wouldn't even be talking about that huge amount. Suppose we would bring these people to a minimum wage that next year will be $351,000. That is exactly what the minister's response to my inquiry last year showed that such a change would cost one hundred and twenty-two billion a year, but it would also reach perhaps 3,000,3,500 people. This would touch some part of it about half of the people who take maternity leave. This is a huge interest issue. I hope that a welfare committee will be able to make sure that the people at the bottom of the income scale are getting unscrupulous pay up to the minimum. And then there was one small thing I saw in the 9th. the bill that deals with the various reasons that may be for the prolongation, payment, or application of parental rights to birthworm. They are the parents who are in prison or the parents who are sick or whatever they are. There's one group that I thought was a little different, because we're there with a lot of parents who can't take part in raising their children, just aren't there. It is only natural, then, to be able to fully deliver the rights of those to the other parent. But on the 9th. It also states that if a parent is not entitled to this law or right in any other country, the second parent is entitled to 12 months. There's got to be a way to make this better. Although one parent is there under Icelandic law without rights, it is only foolish to let it sit on the sideline while the other parent is fully handed over to the birthworm. At any rate, I'd give a big question mark that this full expeditation survives the law's purpose of ensuring a child to be separated from both parents. Maybe I'll just pass it on. The members of the welfare committee are looking at the figures I've mentioned in the answer here several times. It revealed that there are about 700 fathers and 100 mothers who don't take a baby's ordinary every year. It just needs to be checked about why and how to make the system make sure they take the birthworm too, because all the parents of this country take as much birthmark as they can. In this case, I suspect, for example. That there are fathers who are out - of - work, such as out - of - work or in school, who are the largest in the group that can't take anything. Rather, it is important to lift the bottom so that the minimum wage for every parent in maternity is the minimum, since it is the child's best interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u125	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for his speech. True, this matter is a lot of equality, and as a means of understanding, we may have different opinions about how equality will be achieved best, as well as how equality will be guaranteed. In itself, I agree completely with what. In some way, a senator needs men to be affected to take a birthworm and to take an active part in the training of his children. The question is, Is this exactly the right way and whether this division is a fair division? If we have 12 months to divide them accurately, I wonder if it's really fair to women who carry heavier burdens when it comes to having children. In order to follow the advice of both experts, midwives, doctors, health care professionals, about what is best for both them and their child at risk of working a month before delivery, no matter what their health is, since stress and stress, especially on the final meters, are thought to increase the risk of premature births and may lead to many complications. According to this law, women are to take it from their own right to birthworm and then become poorer for their child. If we add to the fact that most parents, or at least Many parents, choose to take the first month together, since she is a woman, it has been quite a few months since she is a woman. It must take the first two weeks of the law as well. [[The president calls.]] Where's the equal in that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u126	Madam President. Because this bill is always discussed, as if it were for the difference of 12 months, I'm going to put on the prophet's hat and say it won't be tried. I slouched here on statistics in the last 20 to 40 years. I think all mothers will have to take seven months, and all fathers will take five months. It will be the same division that will come out of this equal equation of systems we have entered into the council. Yes, women certainly have heavier physical burdens and one physical burden by bringing children into the world. That's right. Most of them stop working some time before childbirth. Does it necessarily have to come from the birth serpent? Now that I've watched a few women go through this process, I don't know a few things that don't only get sick licenses during the past month when the pelvis, fatigue, and all of them are making the main activities of daily living harder than it pays to be working. It's just so much better than eating off the hysteria and usually a higher tax. This is the right of the woman. I know that in Sweden women can have birthworm before childbirth. I'm not sure that's the right way. I'm not necessarily sure that the best way to do this is to view it as part of the maternity term in the case of a woman who gets the day off from work because of her health. It's just a sick license.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u127	A respectable president. Hv. A senator brings up a sick license. I wondered if every woman has the right to a sick license a month before childbirth and gets the full salary for a month before childbirth because of her illness license, if the cake is really evenly divided. Besides, being pregnant is just not sick, okay? Senator. The need for women to be respelled to be ill when they are simply in the final stage of their pregnancy. These laws, as they are now, assume that a woman can take a birth certificate a month before the set day. It would be more correct to simply accept that taking a vacation is just part of this pregnancy process. As far as I know, it's the way it is in all the North countries except that women can stop working at 36 weeks of pregnancy, simply because this is really getting younger. Why is it to leave the mother's right to birthworm still a mystery to me? It is only a limited amount of time that the child has with the mother. And I ask myself, " Do I really want to have it so that I need to accept a disease permit to walk the last yards with a child rather than that my job life, my law source and society in general are just ready to admit that the last month is both mother and child for the best that my mother isn't working? ' It seems that experts agree. Why is this not the case with the lawgiver? Why is the mother's own right to walk with her an evolutionary goal?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u128	A respectable president. No, walking a child is not sick. That's why I didn't say that. On the other hand, it is a health license when a woman is granted leave for health reasons because she is advanced in her best interests at not working. There are health reasons. It's anything but sickness. I'm not stupid enough to think that a baby is an illness. I don't know, this might just be something a welfare committee needs to consider. I don't have those statistics on rhythms. From the way I've been dealing with prospective mothers in recent years, I feel that professional life has adapted to this reality, and the public, as well as the women in general, is receiving medical respets and is generally granted permission from jobs. Maybe it'd be better to wrap it into your birthworm system, maybe not, I dare not say. That's what I think a welfare committee needs to look into. I think the point is that the weeks before birth have some flexibility for future mothers for obvious reasons. The senator agrees. Whether it's in the form of some prebirth Orof's or sick license is just an analysis of something we agree on, sounds like.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u129	Madam President. I'm gonna try not to extend this discussion much, but I've been watching it and I'm very interested in it. The discussion that has been going on for some time has been of interest. First of all, I want to say that I am very celebrating this bill. I view this as a happy day in family affairs and equality in the country. Now I am optimistic about the finally starting of this, the prolongation of the hysteria for a full 12 - month period, and I am only six to seven years from when such plans were legally established in 2013 in the leading election, but then the execution or execution of the wedding was completed for a long time, and it would be appropriate in the years that followed to implement it at the end of the country's progress. But now, fortunately, it is back on schedule in the history of this government and has been extended by one month of this year, and it will be at port from the next year on. That's fine. I'm going to jump back a little bit, maybe one 25 years, at least only once again, because of the breakthrough law in 2000. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson recalls what it was like back then. Although it was so that fathers could take something very limited, they generally did not do it because it was not an independent, inexpensive right. He was no better than that in 1998, when the person standing here had his last child, the youngest child - I've probably said it here before and some people are getting tired of hearing it - you had a right in two weeks, that's all. It was new then, at least in the case of the generals, for I may have been the first father of the Allied people who took the birthplace for two weeks. It was a precious and wonderful half month, but, of course, much too short. And after that experience, I wept that I had no prior option when I had older children, that I could do more in the first weeks and months of my life. I also ask people to think only about the huge breakthrough in the 2000 law and how important it has been, not just in the labour market, since it is far more equal than just labour markets, but, of course, it has made a big difference. The development that followed the growth of the father's independent rights was of great interest. True, the system was very generous and not even covered with payment, no matter how much money was paid in the first few years. But then they felt that they could not afford it. Fathers began to take the birthworm on an extremely large scale. In effect, the last few years before a crash had become very cool, very acceptable. By then, both parents were generally making great use of this right, and relatively few fathers did not take at least one. The majority of their independent right to birthworm. So came only a setback into it again, as it is known, but has rather improved since. We were here today to remember Páll the son of Pétursson, a former general and social minister. For this reason, the Kingdom TV was having a news report tonight, and it published an interview with the minister from the crucial milestone when those laws went through here. That's the highest. Then a minister, Páll the son of Pétursson, said that it was a great matter of righteousness. This would be a wonderful family affair, but most of all, it would make it easier for families in the country to integrate family life and employment and to promote equality. That certainly proved to be the case. The culture in the country was greatly affected in this regard. It had a training effect, and it was especially important to make fathers accept their responsibility in these matters, as did their mothers. Iceland became known for this radical, progressive legislation and became a role model elsewhere, as more and more countries began to record, at least To some extent, both parents' unsolvable rights. However, many of them have not yet arrived, and they have been jealous of us Icelanders because we have these legislation that we can be proud of in all respects unless it took way too long to extend our birthworm at least. for 12 months. But I hope it's in port now. And in the years that follow, a man was always forced to give this warning when it was being commended for this, that there was, in fact, one flaw, that we had not yet built the system to the full. But its basic nature and structure are good. Last year, we were in New Zealand, three members of the Allied Assembly of the Icelanders. They were talking about this and men looking at Iceland. The Roman feminists, fighters for equality in the New Zealand Parliament, dreamed they could get the system further into our direction. So this did not just mean a much better and stronger position for women in the workplace, and it has little value, but it had a tremendous impact on Father's changing his thinking on this subject. There were some fine men there who were on the lead for the fact that, in reality, young men in the land were rebaptized and made them understand that they should have their responsibility. And that's what it's all about. During this half month, I learned a lot, how hard it is now to try to take care of a little twerp, although I defined myself as a feminist in those early years. But I realized how much I had to learn, and I still have, for it is an eternity of learning to try to improve as a man in this regard. But a good deal has happened after this breakthrough law of the year 2000, which is no doubt one of the most progressive things Iceland has ever done in these products, in equal and family relationships. Therefore, let us be careful and gently step down to the earth to begin retreating too from the basics of that system. Of course, I can understand how many people are talking about when they wonder whether there is no greater right to translocation or if it's okay to back it up a little bit and that a man can deliver more of the court. I beg men to step gently to the earth in that matter. I say for my part, I can accept this bill tomorrow as it is. I'm fine with it being like this; equal, independent, six months with each parent, but that you can negotiate a transfer in one month. I think, if you want to deal more with a particular difficult social situation or such, it's better that the way you deal with it is through 9 g. and to better define and interpret the sources available to deal with such peripheral situations, where there is too much problem between both parents. You can deal better than that. But I also say there: I must not overdo it. Do not spill too much, there must not be a risk of abuse, since this is where men are less likely to take birthworm. I don't think we should get too high on the fact that the status of equality in Iceland has become so good that we can afford to relax in that regard. Some unpleasant feeling tells me that if this is not guaranteed through these rules as they are in this regard, it could be a quick setback. Even though we are world champions, there is no total equality between the sexes in Iceland. There's a lot to go on. Here, there is a sexual difference in pay, and there may be rapid weight gain in young women of professional age if the trend returned fully to the point where it was primarily responsible for child care during the first life period. I'm not saying that we were going all the way back to the fear of recruiting women of childbearing age and that they were constantly in the process of having less potential for progress at work because of the risk of being pregnant and having to go home to take care of children. But that's the way it was, then it's just gonna have to say what it is. We've gone awry distance over these subjects over the years, and that's a joy, but that does not mean that there is no risk of relapse. The Patriarchal Empire stands deep, the sex systems are strong, and we see some of the right ways in which women are right, just through stolen political winds. Then, suddenly, the material you would think was in danger, as if it were a woman's own body. So let us not assume that there is no way for a relapse, so we gently step to the earth in this regard, since we have the judgment here. We have proof of the importance of this operation, how much it has changed in these matters. Then I'm not primarily thinking about the workforce, although it's important, I don't think there's any doubt that the women's position is almost entirely better in the labour market today, much better, without being quite good enough, as I mentioned by gender subsidies and other lower ratios of management places and the danger that the men's system would fit in better with getting a certain progress and setting up on their salary and like that. That's the kind of thing that's been wanting to be. But I'm also thinking about the atmosphere in society. I'm thinking about cudddly. I'm thinking about the attitude inside the families. I would like to note, though, that of course, I want to believe that younger generations are now growing up and entering this age that takes much more for granted the parents'sharing it with them. It seems to me that I sense young people around me, my children and other children who are having children during those years, that there has become a completely different atmosphere in that subject. And perhaps it would go far, but the other forces, the rest of the forces, and the financial ones, can be strong here, and they need to be in mind. But whatever happens, I know why. The committee will, of course, in view of the discussion here, also has a good look at this, but I'm fine with the landings in this bill and, as I say, might accept this tomorrow, although it may not sound well that the President of the Generals is actually saying that he is ready to accept a case tomorrow. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It should, of course, be used for its regular treatment and should be carefully investigated and published for information and all of that. But my basic attitude is shaped to celebrate this matter. At last. Because of what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson kindly referred to some speech that I've apparently held last year for a similar reason about the hole between the birthworm and the nursery age, or the care hole we sometimes call so much, I haven't changed the viewpoint. Of course, my exemplary career country is that there is no hole there and that the school is free of charge. I have not changed my mind on that subject, and it is true that in order to do so, some further cooperation and effort may be needed by a country or state. But let us not forget that the state is taking an enormous step over the course of two years in order to reduce this capacity by about three months below. That's a big difference. I have also seen that many societies are reaching a considerable distance. And I notice that it is becoming more common to think that rural society is proud of it, especially that they have grown to a much lower age than before, into nursery school. In some places this could be very small, even nothing, or at least nothing after a full 12 - month period. Of course, it's very good, and hopefully there will be ambition and even competition between the rural communities in the country to provide families for the better environment in this regard and to put it first to close this hole. Then all of this can be quite shiny very soon. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and a chief. For an inspired and interesting talk on this important subject, President J. Sigfússon's Steingrímur J. I just wanted to talk to you for a second. A member of the generation's gap that he mentioned in his speech and that his attitude might have only changed since he was the first member of the council to take a birthport, wondering if he might have any effect on these very strict rules of exchange. Well, now, for example. to mention that the parents'own right could be four months in a parent's life, four months in passing rights. Counts 'em out. A senator did not say that a possible change of viewpoint in the case of sexual relations would make him willing to take a larger share if it suits his family? I thought why. A senator speaks a little as if men were doing everything in their power to avoid enjoying themselves with their children at this crucial age, and if they could avoid it, they would just pass away. I wondered if there are other causes, causes that can be. The speaker also approached him and focused on the rewards of the sexes. Then there is the reason why the men do not take the sex system less than unfairly, that they receive a higher salary, but that it simply costs the family much more money to leave on leave than the mother leaves on leave. Is it not because we need to increase our equality, a respectable president, rather than completely shut down our space? The current system expects one third of a male, one third for a woman or father and mother and one third of optional. Why do we not continue to do so, working on equality and freedom elsewhere?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u131	Madam President. I thought I would answer that question by wearing it in my speech, that I was pleased with the exchange of the bill. I agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said that most likely, unfortunately, it would be seven, five largely. I don't think it's much easier for the fathers, who, in most cases, would have a lower dose, to contribute to at least five months. I also answered, and I still believe it should at least in the first round to take a closer look at Article 9. and possibly slightly more flexibility there before a discount of both parents' unsolved rights, at least some significant discount. I'm not going to go into any preconceived position as to whether it can be four, four, or something like that. I'm not there. I believe that it is necessary to protect both parents' very strong, independent and inexpensive rights, read: fathers, to achieve this goal. Of course, I'm not suggesting that young fathers in general are not interested in this, and I specifically mentioned it, I think it has become quite a change of attitude, and that most people now grow up with a lot of money to do their share, the family responsibility, including the care of children. I'm sure that would remain that way for much of it. What I fear is the dangers that can creep up behind us if we relax too much, if we become too helpless. It can be a powerful force that pulls back. If there is a significant difference in pay, yes, of course, and it has a positive effect on the parent's ability to earn a parent's income, most of the mother, just take the whole maternity, it'll be part of, and if the father is on a very ambitious career and thinks that it can cause his career to become too far too far an obstetrical, etc. It can be there, power that's very strong, which I wouldn't want to unleash and bring in a setback in Iceland's equal struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u132	A respectable president. It is pointedly stated by experts on the health and development of children that they fear that this rigid transition, this small space, will have a negative impact on the development and mental well - being of infants, and they are surprised that they did not have a consultation and that they did not contribute to the molding of these programs. So the question is, Isn't there more in this equation than men and women in the workplace? Are not children in this equation too? Why not consider giving a little more space to both parents without our giving up each parent's own right? Could this not be an improvement for the children, who, indeed, are also taking up a fight of rights and who have not always been convinced as individuals with their own right to develop into a wholesome, good environment? So I ask. In view of the change of viewpoint, a senator again does not want to examine only increased flexibility with the premise that each parent's own rights continue to be one third. A senator believes that he has experienced and, in view of the warning advice given by experts such as the governor and the midwives'society of such inflexibleness, revising these rigid changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u133	Madam President. I may not have read all the comments that came on in my consultation, but I did a little research on the subject in the past and I know those attitudes very well. I don't feel like this is the way to talk about it. It's like it's being put in here by some terribly rigid demands that will be at the expense of mother and child. They're extending this. The mother is being offered to receive seven months in place of a maximum of six months, as it was. Is that not something to rejoice over? It is at least less to avoid this, less dangerous than it used to be. Maybe they should have gone deeper with the system as it was before, to be more ashamed of it than less, I would have said. Of course, there are more like this than your child, as important and central as it is, and more than your parents at work. I approach this case only to a small extent as a labour market, as I think I said at least. three times in my speech. This is an equalizing situation in a much larger context and plays much more in and no less the homes and collective responsibility for the household and the care of children there than it has to do with the sex status in the labour market, though it is certainly important. So no, unfortunately, va. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, I'm not ready to make a great deal of my views on this. I'm just gonna be very radical in this case, radical, feministic in my approach, and look at this as a very important matter to continue to rely on the basis of national equality development because this struggle is ongoing and is not completed in any way. I'd have a complete understanding of the fact that men were better off than 9 g's. Based on these views, which, of course, are valid, and wondered if they could be defined by certain peripheral conditions, the occurrences, the social situation, or something that might require retrieving some authority on the basis of the regulations given in Article 9.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u134	President. I wanted to add a little bit of this discussion about financing. At the present time, 1.1% of the insurance fee goes to the birth policy fund. Since there is a ratio of pay, a person with a higher salary actually has a higher payment on the insurance fee in a stock store, and it can be concluded that the person is paying a higher birth reserve when appropriate. The problem we wrestle over there is the roof. We have experience and data from before the roof was as low as it is now, how the use in months that were available was more equal then than it is now. When we think about this transition, the other part of the problem is covered. If we are going to go in the fairest direction, allow parents to organize the months their child has, as appropriate for each of us, we must also consider the roof. We can't completely ignore the fact that a low roof means that in order to get even, we need to have such a black and white exchange of our maternity. But then we're just forgetting that we could mean the roof with this proportion in the insurance bill and/or any part of it, as part of the income tax. The financing is already the main object of the problem, of course. But because people have a variable salary and are paying the proportion of their pay in a feeding reserve, they are, of course, entitled to the same percentage back. A person with a higher salary pays more in the birthed oralfs and thus can easily get a higher salary back. It's not too complicated. That's the kind of percentage. There are several details about the data they used to be when the roof was higher. Cential mothers put an end to taking even more percentages of their maternity. Despite these circumstances, if they were wealthy mothers and wealthy fathers, they were still taking a higher proportion, which is interesting to themselves. But in the end, it always comes down to low mothers'income, that's always the problem. It may be possible to save it and meet that problem through child reform or something like that. There are some settings that we can apply, giving the flexibility that even a certain parent must have, instead of performing a variety of separate rules where people have to go through all sorts of needle eyes or try to cheat the system in any way, do not register in cohesion or stuff like that, in order to try to get what they need. There's the problem after all. I just wanted to mention, in relation to this, my bill and some of the other council members of Porra, about many days of flexibility in maternity. At the present time, the parent, father, or mother must take at least two weeks in a baby's womb. It's another restriction I think it's unnecessary, because the evidence for her is so hard to keep track of. Why don't we just keep an eye on it? Is it really of any importance when we are paying for the stocks, these are certain rights that we are obtaining after all? Why not trust people a little more? The change I suggest would make it possible for parents to take two days a week to meet another two days a week or to have a switch like that, but it would not have to be kept in maternity for a minimum of two weeks. At least I have a vision of the flexibility as the key and the rest of it as a matter of solution to our objective, provided we have flexibility. If we could work at it, it would be appreciated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u135	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for the discussion that's been on this important subject tonight. Many excellent talks have been offered, and it has been helpful to pay attention. It is a pleasure to find that in the hall, it is a pleasure with the action being carried on during this ideal period that is the restoration of the ororal system, the 10 billion restoration, the doubled birthoral system during the terms of the term. in that we are raising payments for maternity vacations. In October 2016, the maximum pay from the birth orcs fund was 370,000. Today they are 600,000 bucks. When this government takes over, its birth certificate is nine months. With the bill, we're extending it for 12 months. That's the big changes this government is making, and that's what I'm really happy about. This length of 12 months has normally been a big debate over the transition. Today's opinions have been debated as to what is considered suitable in this regard. When the law was accepted 20 years ago, this exchange was spoken of, and the exact same discussion was conducted in this hall, as at this point, about why a certain percentage was an earmarked one parent. Then, a provincial said. Social Affairs Minister Páll Pétursson, it is to promote the same parental responsibility, to improve the interests of both children and men, to ensure that children will be enjoyed together with both mother and father in the first weeks and months in their lives and to take major steps in equality, because this is going together. It was also said that when experience became available, a full parental right, and thereby a child's rights were guaranteed just as equal, it would probably be a review of the exchange. We're so lucky that over the last 20 years, we've collected statistics about how this has taken place, and today, fathers don't usually take more than regular dishes. Anything you can do between the mothers. So the rationalization that 20 years ago, when full parental rights could be revised, still applies. Since we have not fulfilled them, we are neither achieving full equality nor ensuring a child's rights. It goes together too. It's the same rights. However, we are making sure that we are adaptable. Although we're in six, six, it's possible to go to seven, five by moving one month apart. Many comments received on the matter in a court of agreement were just that, in turn, increasing the flexibility. There were especially single - parent families. The comments that have been made this evening especially dealt with single parents. We agreed before the matter entered the council, and we developed the flexibility there. It referred to the duration, abbreviated from 24 months to 18 months. They were criticized. We dealt with it, and we increased that flexibility. It was largely directed toward the situation of single - parent parents, such as the challenge. Here a senator and president of the Generals pointed out that there is a 9th paragraph. The bill. It's also difficult because if you're going to put so much flexibility in it that the exchange is no longer six, six or five, seven, depending on how you play with it, it's only more honest to go to zero, zero, twelve. They should be helped by the family, by individuals, by single parents, who do not have the circumstances to divide the situation evenly. We've increased that flexibility. I have declared myself ready for a further conversation with the committee. The Ministry is prepared to consider whether an outstanding example of this is possible without losing the core in the bill that was the same core as that of 20 years ago when Páll, the late son of Pétursson, spoke for the bill here in this hall and the Allied Council of Iceland agreed to do so. There is also a greater flexibility in the law because one parent, in this case, the mother walking with the child, has the possibility of having an additional two months in the way of birth. That flexibility is built in if needed without damaging other rights. She also has the possibility of having two months after birth if there is postnatal illness or mental illness, postpartum depression, and other things that can happen after birth. This adds up to the six to seven divided months, i.e. Six months that can go up to seven for five, seven months. We are now ten to eleven months in the presence of those circumstances. So we're creating flexibility in the law, but at the same time we're holding at this baseline. Tonight's discussions made it clear that the government had given up on bridges. Of course, that is from time to time. I've traced it here tonight, that the state is reaching out for three months, and half of the country's rural communities have stretched out there. It's the other half of the community in the country that's not getting it. So we need to direct it to the rural groups to reach out. We made an attempt to have a conversation with our rural communities about it. This was not fully agreed with among the rural communities, since half of them did not have it on their part. That's what's going to be done. However, that the government in the 10 billion operation has given up on reaching the rural communities to help bridge the gap from time to time. At least there's a pretty small interval left in bridges because there's only half of the community bridges and we've built three months on this bridge. Then I'd like to say that I believe that when you look at these laws in conjunction with the law that was approved 20 years ago and you see their positive effects, they will grow up just as well. I also believe that we can take bigger steps. I believe that as a result of these laws, we are ready as a nation to take even greater steps when it comes to the affairs of children, family affairs, and family relationships. But this step is enormous. Not by default. It is not necessarily possible that during one terms of time, it is possible to double the size of a system such as the birthworm system. We are going from 10 billion to 20 billion in one terms period by both increasing the pay and extending the orc. I say just make others better, and that's why I'm incredibly proud. Naturally, there are things that could go better, but we'll take them next time. No one should be able to say that this action is not big and important, even if there are factors that might be better handled. Then I want to thank my heart for an enormously good and objective discussion and promise that both the minister and the Ministry will work hard. the welfare committee to the progress of the case. May we be able to arrange for it in time so that the many good legal adjustments associated with these changes can be used for the families of this country right from January 1 onward.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u136	President. It's a small, simple bill, moved by Pirata's council to change the law of elections to the Generals. The bill suggests 2nd. 1st par. The word of the law goes like this: A 18 - year - old citizen who had a legal home in this country and a legal right has applied to him according to a further rule of 2 gst. The following modifications are made to Article 2. The law: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Instead of the 1st case. 1.mg. There are two new proceedings, as follows: An application for the election's rights. 2 mg. 1st par. will be used electronically to the Iceland National Publications Index in their decision-making form. The name of the candidate, his social security number, when he left the country, the last legal home in the country, and the address abroad. b. Case three and four. 1.mg. ... willpassout. c. The words "Shiloh " in the four - year - long text of the 6th verse. 1.mg. ... willpassout. d. 2.mg. ... willpassout.How long will he be gone? Finally, it is suggested that the reference at 3 mgr. Twenty-seven. The law will pass away. It's a little technical, but now I'll try to explain what this means. The matter is now set aside for the fourth time, and it was last proposed to the last legislation of the legislature. The bill suggests that the Icelandic citizens who live in a foreign country will be enrolled in an elected file if they submit an adequate vote application. By means of this arrangement, the work that has now been completed by an Icelandic citizen who has had a legal home in this country must be specifically applied to maintain its rights at the end of eight years or more from the removal of the country's citizen, but the decision that someone should thus be adopted for four years. He who moves out of the country needs to be in charge of eight years, and he needs to apply every four years and thus can maintain his life's election rights. This suggests that only one election rights must be applied, that it does not need a continuous process every four years to maintain it. It is then suggested that application application procedures for re-selection applications become electronically simplified and shortenes the procedure, making it safer. Transporters believe that if the bill is approved, it will save voters and Iceland's national records several paperwork and simple sieges around a budget. However, it is suggested that a new election law is being proposed for 16 years, and it cannot be accepted again onto the Constitution, i.e. Can't be said: I want to continue my election privileges even though I live abroad for the next four years and continue the charges. At all times, we in the Pirates, who have the baseline value of promoting and protecting civil rights, see the change as a decline in civil rights. That's the difference between being able to register as long as the person lives against the voter's value for only 16 years after the person moves out of the country. After all, whether or not they use their voting rights is up to the point of using it when you live abroad as well. Then, of course, often there is a point to be taken advantage of that right to vote and to monitor the course of affairs in Iceland. But this is a suggestion for simplicity of the existing arrangement and, in the opinion of the movers, as said here, reimburse the existing rights system for the rights of an election. When the second bill for election to the Council is brought here at the council, this may be taken into account at the same time. I think it will change it in a way that only lasts 16 years, and so there is no acceptable limit to the rights of the present. There is a setback in this regard. It may be noted that in the Constitution the person who has a legal right to have Icelandic citizenship and he lives in Iceland, and in the law there has to be a clear source, far more extensive rights than the minimum of the Constitution, the fact that a citizen, even though he does not live in Iceland, but has ever had a legal home in Iceland, can maintain his election rights. I've heard some questions about whether or not this violates the Constitution. I don't agree with that, because in view of the current arrangement, a citizen who doesn't live in Iceland can have a vote. Of course, the Constitution sets low limits that we can give more extensive rights, but we cannot downplay them for what the Constitution gives us. I think this is a very convenient addition to the current arrangement, especially when elections have been irregular, when extra time and access have been needed to be accepted into a vote in advance of elections held at an unusual time. As the current law assumes, it is only necessary to check into a budget during the next few days if they want to have a vote for the next election by the end of September, so people need to consider that one, two, and immediately if they have this expired deadline for four years. Let's stop there, and I hope this bill will go a little easier because it's just the same system as now that it's simpler.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u137	A respectable president. This case does not make much difference, but it is still important democracy. It is also important for electronic administration and government saving, so I bring some popular political slogans to support this important issue. What I find most important to this case, and what I think is one of the most important things about having an Icelandic citizen's rights is that I have a right to vote in Iceland. And while I choose not to become a citizen of another state and give up Icelandic citizenship, it is my firm belief that I should have the right to vote in Iceland if I have ever lived here and had some opinions about how things are supposed to be here. I just think it's an individual democratic right that we're not supposed to limit in the way we've been doing. We're not supposed to be doing so much to get this right. Of course, we should make it much easier for those living abroad to choose than we do. I remember that during my years of study, I had to travel a few hours by train, in the middle of a test tube, to get an envelope that I needed so personally to mail, and it was a lot of fuss and took a lot of time that I didn't have at the time to control. Yet, it is an important right that we would like to encourage people to make use of it. With this small adjustment proposed in the bill, the Porta Party suggests that this will be easier and that we will end these endless repetitions of an application to get to an elected record. You are either an Icelandic citizen who has ever had a legal home in Iceland or not, and if you are, you should have a vote in Iceland as long as you decide not to leave your citizenship to another nation. We probably know - and I know many examples of Iceland's people who have lived in foreign lands but who still raise children, monitor everything that happens at home in Iceland, call their home and pay attention, and look after what's happening here, they care about their country and want to take part in deciding what happens to them, want their children to live here, and want to share in creating a future for them, and have some opinion about how the country should be ruled. There may be reasons why they decided to move someone else, and they may even have something to say about how the country is governed, at least Sometimes. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. I just wanted to make a strong recommendation on this bill. It must be the spokesmen of electronic administration and government saving a great deal of joy, and, of course, the Democracy that I hope we are all at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u138	A respectable president. This matter is important to justice and to the matter of freedom of expression. I carry it for the fourth time, looks like I'm on the report, but it aims to give a warrant for appeal to freedom of expression, injury, and when it comes to murder, a lawsuit is always permitted. This may sound technical, but it really matters when it comes to the protection of expression freedom in Iceland, and it really is important when it comes to the equality of a court of justice, especially in judicial cases that are involved. Why? Because there is a set of rules regarding when to appeal matters to a higher judgment level and when not to appeal. There is a set set set set set floor, fixed on the floor. If an improvement or a sum of money in a case is 1 million or more, there is an automatic right to appeal the case to a higher judgment level for the loser, probably also for the winner, but it probably does not encourage the person who works the case. However, when it comes to laxness, this rule works, so that it involves the accuser of the perpetrators, often the financial party that charges little independent media, is able to appeal, they lose a criminal case against this little independent media, which means that this independent media is going to the court when he is condemned. How does it work? Yes, if someone decides that a media medium is charged with injustice and the level of damage is placed on perhaps 1◯2 million, of course a million because they want to appeal to a higher court level, they should lose this case, which they obviously should do when the freedom of expression is at stake, all equal. However, the loss of the media is the result of a well over a million penalties. So it doesn't make any difference that the cost of a painter has certainly come well over a million just because he's in charge of this case. The person has lost a case of injury that, of course, includes the most important interest in the person, especially if there is an independent little member of the media, who may have been involved in a financial person's being simply to avenge himself because this independent medium had informed about something that the money - rich party was so much ill atoning that he had been informed. Thus, it may be of great interest to those who lose a court case in a lower court, a federal court, to make a larger decision, to the National Court in this case. As the situation is now, it's an uneven game, there's an imbalance between the parties. It is that if the person who is heading for this independent party or someone who expressed himself in some way loses the case, the same person can always be appealed because he requires a million or more. But if this independence is lost, he may not be able to appeal because the compensation he has made may be 300,000 dollars. 500 K, at least not a million. This means that he will not get the rights of the person originally charged with appeal. It is, most respected president, the legal principle that equal justice should exist in court. As the situation in these matters is right now, when it comes to freedom of expression, there is not a perfect equal between parties in judicial matters. When it comes to freedom of expression, it is important for us to do as much as we can in protecting and ensuring that it is not easy to misuse law, to use legislation to gain control over people who are using their freedom of expression, or to get revenge so that the media may cost a fortune in caring for their important democratic role. Although this case, a respectable president, may sound technically, it contains only one physical article, it is extremely important to promote the growth of expression freedom in Iceland. As I say, for the first time I'm not making a statement about this matter. It never gets any farther than a committee, as goes on so many good cases of government opposition, unfortunately, but it can always be tried again. I hope to convince more members of Congress this time. On Tuesday night, perhaps there is a little bit of hope left over ten minutes, and there are few left to listen. But I won't let it stop me from knocking at a few. Councilmen, and, of course, all of the General and Education Committee, where I sit, to push this important matter forward. It can be better if it's enough. This time, we may be able to strengthen and strengthen the freedom of expression and increase the equality between court members. This is a vital matter of justice and is a vital freedom of expression. I suggest that the bill go to the General and Education Committee and 2nd over.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u139	President. A brief consideration of the judicial hearing of relatively small matters that are held in the council after the council and should in fact not take very long to complete, because this is in the final case of a prince. This is not a problem with the cost of a government fund or anything like that. Rather, it is an issue of rights. These are not matters that necessarily require endless visitors back and forth on the committee, of course, but they should be relatively easy to resolve in some way that is not done, especially if the matter is minor, even if that is the norm. That's, I think, something we need to take a little better discussion about at the council. We need to review a number of these matters and think that there are a lot of fine senators that can't get out of any strange reason. I have been aware that a case I was moving couldn't get out of a committee because one of the committees just said, "No, I think we should look at it more. Despite the fact that all others have been willing to let the matter go into the Senate Hall. And it was about a division between councils. If one group gets five cases at the Senate Hall, then all the others must get at least five cases. After all, it's not 1st transporter or anything that matters. Whether the council decides to say, "Yes, this is a matter of justice. " Yes, we all take credit for finishing it. I mention, for example. often my interpretation of electronic carpenters. Me and what. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, Elíasdóttir of Elias, worked together. Sadly, only one transporter could have done so, but after all, the Allied took credit for that suggestion, added, made it better, increased its impact field, and so on. Even if I did or did. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter would have been the subject of the proposal and would have brought her to the council at that time as soon as all members of the council voted with that proposal. I think we should do more of doing things together, with things that are so obvious. We can just walk around and say, " Isn't this a case we should end up together and make this country better than later? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u140	President. This is a simple, but extremely important matter, a proposal for interpretation on the signing and validation of the third optional book with the United Nations Children's Covenant. The General concluded to hide the government from signing and validating for Iceland on behalf of the third optional book on the United Nations Convention on Child's Rights adopted at the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 19, 2011, and immediately initiate its implementation on land and complete the induction by the Fall Council of 2021. We've previously made this suggestion, but now the transporters are me and why. The members of Halldóra Mogensen, The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Smári Mccarthy, Thorldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, Ingi In Jónsson, Brjánsson, Kristinsson Insson, Harðardóttir G. Hardydrótttir and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordótir. The third optional book to the United Nations Children's Covenant is to define a way of dealing with children. This book enables children and their representatives to appeal specific matters to the United Nations Child - Rights Committee. 52 countries have signed the book, and 46 countries have validated it. Now, for the last time, Maldi was the book on September 27, 2019. The third optional book on the UN Convention on Child Rights gives children and their representatives permission to sue the Child Court to meet certain conditions. The children's covenant was for a long time the only international human rights contract without an international organisation that a person could sue if Member States were not expected to meet their obligations according to the terms of the covenant. Enrolled in April 2014, a great step was taken to the child's human rights war and includes the book recognition of child independent rights. Has so even. claimed that this book is the greatest victory in the child's rights struggle from the birth of the child's covenant. It is very important that the Icelandic government immediately initiate preparations for the signing and validation of the book. Action must be taken to enable children to seek their rights more effectively here on the country. This could be done by a special campaign in which governments and judges would be offered instruction on the requirements of childhood service to children and their independent access to information and counselling. It is important that the Icelandic State validate the book and thus strengthen the child's independent rights, which can be said to include a child's emissary agent. of this in their annual reports and reports on the main concerns published in the summer of 2017. Then, in October 2014, children's executives in the North countries issued a joint declaration six years ago, encouraging the northern governments to strengthen the child's human rights by signing and validating the third optional book six years ago. It also obligates the importance of seeking justice and suing the child - rights committee. Finland and Denmark have already validated the registration. Iceland is relatively prominent in international comparison in ensuring the child's human rights, and there is a great need to take action to maintain that position. One of the main advantages of validating the third optional publication is that children could be given in this country a chance to consult an international health care provider who will attend each session as to whether Icelandic legislation and implementation were in accordance with the rules of the Children's Convention. This is very important in view of the independent rights of children as well as the authority of children. With the legalization of the children's covenant, the Icelandic government took a very important step toward child - protection. By signing and validating the third optional book and opening open the way for children and their representatives to the United Nations Child Court Committee, the step would be fully taken. Here we can mention an extremely interesting coincidence, perhaps, that Iceland has a representative at the United Nations Child Rights Committee. It's an Icelander in this committee that Icelandic children must not consult. I think that's a good reason; that Iceland boasts to be a representative there, but hurt children and their representatives to go to the Committee. I think that's a good reason to agree to this synopsis proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u141	Madam President. There are two large human rights contracts that have been validated in this country, in which the Icelandic public does not have access to independent surveillance agencies to seek their rights, to seek advice. It protects the child's rights and the rights of disabled persons. Now we can ask ourselves, " Are these not the individuals most likely needed? ' So we must ask ourselves, " Why are we moving this case year after year, and will not be successful in establishing the validation of this optional book that would promote the rightfulness of children in Iceland? ' Is it because we don't like the fact that South experts, as they are sometimes called, unless we're hurting experts from outside, have some opinions about how we guarantee the rights of children in Iceland, or do we have any opinions about how we guarantee the rights of disabled people in Iceland? Why do we mean to these vulnerable groups, who are fighting for justice in Iceland as well as in the world, about access to increased justice? Is it because we feel uncomfortable having things read about in Iceland? Not with some general assessment of how things are and how they might be better handled, but with real personal examples and people's accounts and real and clear data from international committees who are specialized in the rights of these groups to individual issues. Individual children are being treated for extraordinary matters. It is of utmost importance to be able to look for justice on the basis of a human rights contract legally established in Iceland. We cannot say that we have perfected the right protection of these agreements unless we agree with this appendix and allow them to seek their rights as well out of the landstones. We cannot say that the right protection has become complete with these treaties until we do. Just like what? The entourage of this proposal came in on, w. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, of course, matters are hard to believe that Iceland is a member of the United Nations Child Rights Committee, but Icelandic children cannot consult this committee with their legal rights and rights. It's okay for us to have a nice foreign emissary, but God forbid our children can consult this fine committee. What does it tell us about the status of children's rights struggles in Iceland that year after year this proposal needs to be proposed, year after year, is that very late at night, when no one is there to be found quietly into a committee and die there by their lord? There is no interest in promoting the rights of children in Iceland in this regard, but it's all right to send a man to a foreign country to work on a better committee of the United Nations. I think it's more important that Icelandic children can consult this committee rather than represent us there, to be honest. In that light, I'd like to encourage you. The Foreign Affairs Committee, which I believe will handle this case, to end the case once and to arrive at 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u142	Madam President. Another important subject for a discussion that is delicate. This is a proposal for a resolution of improved social administration. Transporters are the one standing here. The members of Halldóra Mogensen, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdosdóttir, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdóttir, and Ingi In Jónsson. The suggestion reads: ▪ The Council of Justice concludes to hide the Minister of Justice to provide a bill for changing laws in terms of segregation and custody, with the aim of meeting commitments under the United Nations Children's Convention and in order to establish the quality of government guidelines. A minister establishes a system of conduct that conforms to the standards set out in the United Nations Children's Covenant. Ministers consult the county office, child - welfare authorities, stakeholders, juvenile councils, and agencies involved in the seminary. In particular, consider how to ensure a shorter treatment period and that the best for a child will always be based on the rules of the children's covenant and the general comments made by the United Nations Child Court. - It links us to a case earlier. - It's the start of the spring council, 2022. The Constitution proposal has already been submitted to three Parliaments, 148, 149. and 150. The interpretation proposal is now restored unchanged. Children's rights and protection are required on the one hand in child protection laws and on the other. Children's laws recommend that the best of children always take first priority when making decisions about the child's affairs. There are no guidelines to determine what to consider when evaluating what is in the best interests of a child, as the United Nations Child - Court Committee considers in a general comment No. 14 with the United Nations Children's Covenant It recommends that governments establish procedures that apply to all institutions, services, and facilities designed for children, as well as to ensure that the State's rights are met. Monitoring of the procedure should also be effective and ensure that procedures are carried out on the safety of children, health and staff ability to ensure their rights. In 1st. 1st par. The child - welfare law says that children have the right to protect and care and to enjoy rights according to their age and development. That is the case with 1 mg. 2.g. the same law that their goal is to ensure that children living in unsatisfying circumstances or children who have health and development risks are provided with needed help. The Icelandic law on children and children's protection thus aims primarily to ensure the rights and protection of children. The same applies to the United Nations Children's Covenant, but in 1 mg. Section 3. He says that what is best for a child always comes first when public, private, administrative, government, or legal institutions take steps that concern children. Then, in the children's covenants, there is an obligation to Member States to provide parents and legal guardians with appropriate assistance in caring for their responsibilities and providing for the development of institutions and facilities for the care of children, such as Article 18. The covenant. Despite a noble objective, current legislation and administration are not in the way that children's rights are guaranteed. This arrangement aims to reform legislation and administration in terms of children, with the goal of contributing to the betterment of the above - mentioned rights and protection of children. One of the main problems in society is that measures available are extremely slow and even of limited impact. because the county case takes a long time. The quicker resources and better management would benefit all the causes, for a quicker solution to the case will eliminate uncertainty and improve the safety and status of all involved. By 33rd. a Child - law is obliged to seek reconciliation before a court order or a legal case is called for because of custody, law, companionship, court duty, or conduct. This law was laid down, along with several other changes, in order to improve the case. Now that there has been some experience with the use and application of a system of reconciliation and other adjustments made at the same time, a survey of the results of the adjustment of the law should be conducted. It is reasonable to expect that these measures serve their purpose and to help improve the situation of children and parents. Experience shows that this may not be the case, so it is reason to consider whether further changes are needed. In the reply of the Minister of Justice to the inquiry of a member of the Parliament's resolution to the 150th legislation Council of 196, there are some details of the treatment period in the county bodies. It shows that the businessman in the capital area has to wait for an average of 49 days in order to confirm the change in the quality of life that is unacceptable for a long time. On the average, parents wait 473 days after a request for a change in associations has been submitted until the result is reached. The longest waiting period was 1,852 days. This doesn't mean five years or so to me if we use a mind bill. The Minister of Justice quotes from Article 12. The rules for counselling and agreeing treatments as follows: During the period of six months should normally not be longer than 6 months and should not last longer than 12 months after the decision to initiate treatment. In answer to the minister of justice, it is also stated that the businessman in the capital area believes that a waiting period is too long for reconciliation treatment to be too long and does not comply with a court order. While the businessman in the capital area does not believe that the trial period is a problem, since the management of much of the case itself is a problem, the average pay period indicates that the trial can be improved. As indicated in the response of the Minister to the 3rd. The request is obliged to seek reconciliation before judicial matters can be appealed for custody or association. The charge is not critical as such, but it inevitably delays a final decision in cases that need to go to court because of the unusual length of the terms of reconciliation. In the above answer, a minister deals with the methodology used when interviewing children in custody and contact. It will be used by experts, which is based on their knowledge of practical ways that they have acquired through their education. It is not stated how established methods are used and how the methodology is consistent in all administrative institutions. The answer suggests that in addition to practical techniques, material from the Children's Institutes for Disease Control is also used. These are educational aids and videos designed to be child - care providers to guide their conversations with children. The Children's Department of Equal Opportunities in Norway had the material prepared, but the Children's Health Office contributed to the text and translated it into English in 2010. The minister's response to the above request is asserted that there is no introduction or interview with children when they are interviewed by a businessman. It discusses a possible sense of loyalty, but it can be read from a minister's response that children's references ask them out in order to discern the situation and position of a child. Although it is claimed that this is not a reporting or an interview, the description of the interview suggests that it might be possible. Under circumstances that could be a hearing or an investigational interview, a child should be able to bring a person to the rights of the person. Just as parents can have a lawyer for their own good, the child should also have access to such price of interest, i.e. translates into color, as is discussed in the general comment by the United Nations Child Rights Committee No. 14th The Justice Department rules on counselling and reconciliation, as per 33rd and 33. a Children's Law says that the goal of expert advice is to guide partners in the best interests of children. However, as noted earlier, the rules of conduct, such as those established in the United Nations Children's Covenant, are missing regarding what is to be considered for the best of the child. The Treaty considers separation from parents in the 9th century. .................................... ..................... gross, separation from family and other care to 20. ........ 21 adoption. ................................ a separation from adults with a demutation of 37th par. and general rights due to legalization in Section 40 which specifically discuss the case of the trial and the alleged violation of the law. In the 3rd. IV. section A in general comment No. 14 from a child - rights committee to the children's covenant is specifically discussed with a child in the best language, in English, the best publics of the child's children. For a more detailed explanation of 1 mg, see the box. Section 3. the children's covenant and specifically discussing the duties of lawgivers and jurists as well as social and educational systems. It is strongly recommended that we evaluate the interests of children and when decisions are made, children's rights and books should be respected. In the general comment by the Child - Court Committee No. 14 discusses the State's obligation to establish clear guidelines for what constitutes a child in the best interests of his or her children. These standards do not exist in Iceland, for the principles found in child protection laws do not cover all that need to be considered when assessing what is best for a child. There is also no further procedure on how to enforce the regulations already set out in Icelandic law. For this reason, the Council of Justice has suggested that it be entrusted to the Minister of Justice to suggest a change in the law that will help correct the problem discussed. The factors desired for a minister to take into account are how to ensure a shorter treatment period, the best basis for the child's choice of the paediatric contract, that a repeat violation of a relationship agreement is not to be treated as a new case, that the compliance with contact and that there will be legality in the precontinent and legal matters. These key factors can help to make adequate improvements in the seminary. It is then suggested that operation plans and legislation be provided no later than the beginning of the spring council of 2022. It is clear from this series that a number of individuals, parents, and children are waiting for their release and must be stressed that this case is being won quickly. I know how slow everything's going here. We see this in the minister's answers, both in written inquiries here at the council and also in these contacts. With the approval of the Parliamentary arrangement for this arrangement, there will be improvements in the environment and living conditions of children and families, which are vitally important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-24-24.u143	A respectable president. I come up here to support this important matter and to emphasize the importance of making sure that the child's covenant has value in all government decisions, in all the legal arrangements involved in children. I can hardly think of things that are more important for the rights and interests of children than socializing with their parents, being clear, that children are not forced to associate with their parents, and that they are sure to be listened to the will of children when it comes to social matters. We know from many recent examples, reports in the media, especially during the hour, that it is all too common to listen to children and to be forced into association with a violent parent, that children are forced into situations that really have harmful effects on their well - being and the future. We are far from doing well when it comes to ensuring the rights of children in social matters. It's just that it's clear. We can see this during the treatment period, we can see it in minor matters, we can see it in children's reports of forced separation, forced association with a violent parent. We see on this basis that children are not listened to, not to their will, not to make sure that children are not interrogated without someone close to them, some sponsor, with them. A respectable president. This is really important, and it is not later a wonderful matter, for since society and custody of children have been a lot in the discussion, and many have wanted to take some hard action in these matters, parents should be imprisoned, and I don't know what and what, but most important, that we have only a natural and good system that is guided by the interests of children, doing what is best for children, listening to children, and having a child contract of the United Nations that reveals all of its activity. It's such an eating plan that we must accept it this time.
