ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u1	The president considers it possible for a conference to last longer than the Council of Congress, if necessary. If there is a work programme, it automatically exceeds the meeting schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u2	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture where request is made to provide a written answer for the application of the spell. 545, on the academic achievements of boys and girls, from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u3	To answer, Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Education and Culture, Foreign and Development Ministers and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u4	President. I'm asking the highest. The secretary of finance whether the government has a plan to take action as a result of a landslides in Sufjörður, aid in cleaning up, or at least plans to prevent similar lands. I've got the highest attention. The minister of last summer published an updated assessment of danger for this area, the Botnagal slopes that fell, warning that there was more loose ground than would have been expected and that they could be released and encouraged to take defensive action. It has been noted that in order to reduce the risk of layering, water has been absorbed, subtracted, to reduce the risk of layering. In addition, the history of research on the surface of Sufficiency is very long, and so is other local laws. The question, then, can be followed by the ultimate question. A minister does not consider the time to speed up the project, let this event serve as a reminder to speed up such defenses, and even to see them at the end of the budget; for above fund has funds to attack and in these times, as we have much discussion here, time to act. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does the government have plans to deal with these disasters, and in what way does it intend to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that it's mildness that it should not have been worse in this case. In general, I believe that it has been made very clear from the government after the flood of Flatty and a review of our weaknesses that we plan to finance it fully, which will be needed in the years ahead, in line with the development programmes. It hasn't been that long, actually not since these funds were set up. By doing so, the State has actually taken to heart income companies beyond reasons, since the funds have not fully been given funds to carry out their laws. Since these issues are not directly heard under my office, I am not prepared to tell accurately about the positions within the institutions that may be heard under the secretary of the environment or by the Minister of Justice. But I can assure you what. A member of the Parliament that the government supports the organizations involved in this case in order to set priorities for the people of the Seysar and to think of a longer future so that people can work and live in the area without fear that such events will recur. That may be what we have as primary in these matters, and we became so tangiblely aware of the last time we were in Flatturus.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u6	President. In Sufficiency, as in any other location, lack of above - water defenses is already taking place when the communities are severely cleaning because they lack a construction site and even planned a new construction site. You can't go into action and you can't build the settlement because of the lack of these defenses, and I encourage them to the highest degree. A minister to use himself in the government for the speed of the pace. Nevertheless, I reiterate my question about Sufjörður in particular and commend the Weather Service for having found out in the previous summer, pointing out that there is a danger that was building up and encouraging action. I ask: Isn't there any reason to respond to the action that was called after when last summer, perhaps using the methods that have been pointed out for cataracts and such events, starting with that? Also, I ask the highest. Minister if the government will somehow help the community because of these events. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u7	A respectable president. I view this as an encouragement from reason. To handle this matter in a specific way, a senator gives clear answers that they intend to be with the local community and its inhabitants in building on these lands and that the expectations of the local people will be met for future construction. I intend to answer that challenge so that there will not be a lack of will in the government or financial support for the projects to be undertaken. The joy of this is that we are for the first time, and, in fact, have just been able to complete a projection plan until the next ten years. In this way, we have recently made a decision to speed up projects in many lands and have, unfortunately, been given ample reason to do so during this ideal time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u8	President. Recently, the bill was presented for changing police law. There are various grasses, which require independent police surveillance in accordance with Congress resolution. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson approved by the Council for exactly one year or 17th last year. It is a pleasant coincidence and even more enjoyable time for movement on this important subject. But I would like to look at other aspects of the bill or of those who are involved in police cooperation with foreign police authorities and international agencies. This is to add an article to the law that states that foreign policemen who come to work here will use police authority. It will then be in the hands of a state police officer to decide whether these foreign police officers will be allowed to use police authority, but it does not show exactly what this authority involves. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice to understand it suggests that foreign police officers will be able to exercise police authority in this country. What authority could they receive? What evidence is behind such evidence? The bill also says that a minister should establish more detailed rules on the cooperation of police with foreign police authorities. In this context, the arms of foreign policemen are particularly mentioned. So I also want to ask the highest. A minister of what she sees in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u9	A respectable president. There's a new bill being distributed here for the change in law that I haven't been able to measure for. I think there are some important changes in that, like cot. A senator comes in, including the monitoring, where we are trying to strengthen the Agency's support and police monitoring, makes it possible to reach independent conclusions, speed up the treatment period of the Committee, etc. Then we ask about the authority of foreign police. These are international cooperation and things that we needed to explain to countries around us when there have already been a division between countries, between the police authorities, and when we have reached international assistance. It's about international cooperation primarily. About the third point, we're going straight. A senator looks at some changes in the arms of policemen that I don't think I'm going on with the bill to a large extent. It has not been planned to change in some way. This is a strengthening aid to various decisions that must have been explained. There's been comments, and there's something else I've been telling you about the legal condition of a police council that's increased the cooperation of police officers on police surveillance, the age conditions and the age. Other factors may be minor and have come up in comments, including in reports, directed to the Ministry of Justice to correct matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u10	A respectable president. I realize that there is a law on the foreign police partnership, but I'm trying to get a minister past what this police authority's host is, what it's taking in, whether it's going to give foreign police authority to operate here in Iceland. How does it understand the authority of police that can be given to foreign police officers? What can they do? According to the wording of the law, it seems to me at least the possibility that U.S. marshals could track down Icelandic hackers or German police officers could show up with their schäfer dogs at the Seydur Sea, now or that high-school police officers could raid houses and arrest Dalvik. Is it possible for a minister to explain who foreign police sources are going to be in this country, or is it entirely supposed to be under the Marshal's authority that foreign policemen will have against Icelandic citizens, with regard to Icelandic jurisdiction in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u11	A respectable president. This law allows only us to fulfill our international obligations, and it allows the governor to decide that members who come to work here in exchange or who have police authority, but a minister is also permitted to establish further laws on this cooperation of police with foreign police authorities and international agencies, including the arms of foreign police officers and information exchanges. It is here, as I have said, to fulfill international duties. This will not be the way it is. A senator noted that only local police officers can come and have police authority without a clear statement from the Icelandic authorities. It will be clear, the Marshal will decide in what kind of work this is, in which kind of cooperation and minister can make further rules. Then the Prüm Conference insists that a cooperative state allow law enforcement authorities mutual access to databases, e.g. and, in the same way, it requires the access of Icelandic law enforcement agencies to the European Fingerprinting Database and the need for information exchange and is part of that international duty and cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u12	A respectable president. On December 10, in response to an unprepared inquiry. paritaprevir Inga Sæland, said the highest. Word of the financial minister, by permission of the President: ▪ We have made special improvements for this group relatively recently through a change introduced to the council by the Department of Social Affairs. As a result, the report as a panel of experts and stakeholders showed that there were individuals in a more sensitive position in this group, especially singles, people with very low or no pension incomes, and that we could have special resources to support that group. We did this by altering our laws, but we have not declared it in addition to other special measures. That's where I'm assuming the highest. The secretary of finance refers to the lack of living that was approved here, the housing impairments that approved 90% of the lowest amount required for pensioners, the lowest amount that is below poverty limits. He forgot to tell, and he must also be proud that there was a taxes of 100%, a dollar in return to this group, and he leaves that group in an absolute poverty trap where he has no chance of helping himself. But then he adds up, saying that this group should not receive what others have received before Christmas and this year. Theoreticians have received 70,000. tax and taxpayer's fees. That's good. But why on earth does this group not get it too? This group is as sensitive and even more sensitive in many respects. A large number of other senior citizens are also in the same position. In this context, it is rather strange that we have not had the ability to see that this group also receives 70,000 bucks. tax and inadequacy. Why not? Why on earth does this group have to wait?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u13	A respectable president. This called to mind that I needed to remind myself that the government used it to bring in a special compensation for those who had least one of the pensioners. Social Ministry suggested that this be implemented in ways that out of limited funds would be the most available to those who had been remembered. It is true that to achieve that goal, rules, boundaries, and restrictions must be applied that lead to the failure of those with more. I think this is a very clear example of the government's priorities for the most vulnerable. Then why not do more? But as we look at the development of the provisioned pensioner for a period of time, we have seen that they have taken a leap in the past five years. In fact, I'm going to allow myself to doubt that a period of time went by earlier, where the buypower of donated pensioners has grown as fast as possible for the last five, six years. It is a cause for rejoicing, and it is a source of satisfaction. Still, it's right next to what's happened. A senator that we live in a community where many people don't have enough to fit their hands. But that will not be solved when the government's funds are fired at a height of 320 billion by a constant command. It is slow and slow by ensuring economic growth in the land, more valuable things, and then the fair division of goods.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u14	A respectable president. This group does not survive the development of arrangements. He lives by what comes in his pocket. Nobody lives at 200,000 bucks. Then I ask, is it the highest? The secretary of the budget agrees to raise these groups by 3.6% and to us senators and Ministers by a similar percentage which means that a minister will be given up to 70,000 bucks. in a month, this group of 9,000 bucks.? Is that okay? I say no. This should turn around completely. It's ridiculous to talk about some development arrangement when the gaps are always more and more, we're supposed to drop these percentages and pick up the crown numbers. It's the highest. The secretary of the budget doesn't agree with me that we should turn this around, so older people and the worst of them get 70,000 bucks. ... butwe'llgetthenineK. who are invited?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u15	A respectable president. If we're going to take some rational, reasonable discussion about the evolution of this group, we're going to have to use facts, numbers, and data. On the history of income, which I let me look up in the middle of. A senator spoke, which can be viewed only for a dollar, on the basis of testimony and evidence of what is going on. When a man examines the lowest income level in a group of 66 years of age and older and sees a couple's marital status after the financial collapse, it can be seen that the cost was so bad that the total pay of a couple after a month was about 200,000. Since then, the road has been up. Now we have been able to get this same number, which was about 200,000 dollars, to $3,700,000. This is progress. [[Up front.]] These are progresses that show that we have left the good years, the prosperity that has just been completed, to improve the situation of those who have had the least. [[The president calls.]] [[Upwards: senators and ministers.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u16	Mr. President. As recently as three weeks have passed from the European Court of Human Rights to judge that four judges of the National Court were illegally appointed, there is still no response to the judgment on the part of the government. Even though the government attorney's office has decided to review the findings of the department and to review the effects of the court, it remains that a minister of justice has declared in the media that there is no need to react specifically to the court's judgment, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is not legally binding and that there is evidence in it. These are very serious words coming from the U.S. Minister of Justice, pushing past page 46 gr. Icelandic legislation on the European Court of Human Rights requiring the binding influence of the Court. Rather, it is our responsibility to show respect for the outcome and give in order to respond promptly and safely to the judgment. So I ask the highest. Minister of Justice: What will the government do in urgent matters? How should the case be handled, judging by the four illegal judges? What is the position of the judges in the land's rights, based on the possibility of re - happenings? What will the minister do about the judges who have not yet been appointed into the court, and how do those who apply for the judicial office now granted in the National Court, be able to trust that the procedure is completely professional? And most importantly, who is the defendant's right? What will the State do to that right? Mr. President. Inactivity is simply not an option of the government. We have accepted international commitments that we must keep. Now is the time to restore trust. More important than continuing to defend the hopeless cause of former Ministers who ignored the direction of government officials, ignored the advice of the Council, and went to stress. Therefore, it would be good to receive clear answers from the highest level. Minister of Justice how the government will respond to this judgment three weeks later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u17	A respectable president. I just don't know what to do. A senator is showing when she says that it is the task of the minister and the Ministry to intervene in its specific points. The European Court of Human Rights has done much good and has had a positive effect on Icelandic rights. However, it is not that the court's decision goes beyond the European Court's; it is not even a direct result of the findings of the Ministry or the Commission requiring adjustments. There is much we can learn from the judgment, and we lie about it, discern what we can do better. Do we need to discuss the orders of the rest of the judges? There they were appointing a number of judges on one board, which is unlikely to happen again. But it is clear that some members, the Ministry, the Minister, the Council, and the Supreme Court can read and learn much from the court. But then he asks why. A senator what to do with those judgments. It's in the work field of a revised judgment that we've established. And all can look to him for justice and ask for his return. In fact, it was specifically explained to the legalization of the court that the results from an international court could be viewed, and this can be the basis for resuscitation if it might change the conclusion of the matter. It is the process available, and all persons can seek their legal rights to the rejuvenating court, which is of utmost importance. Then I don't think so. A senator that trusts with the Commission and the procedure we have been here in the order of a judge can be trusted in the order of a judge of the land. I'm sorry. The number of judges has been appointed by this process, and if we are to discuss the changed appointment of judges in Iceland, let's do it instead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u18	Mr. President. It's just disappointing. The highest answer. The Minister of Justice to my questions is simply disappointing. In review, the European Convention was signed at the Council of Ministers in Rome in 1950 and validated June 29, 1953. In 1994, the text of the contract was later legalized as a whole. One of the most important covenants in Iceland was thus established in the whole of Icelandic law, which requires that we submit to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. It's very serious if Iceland's Minister of Justice comes up here and simply ignores page 46. The European Convention of Human Rights says that this is all that has to be learned from the court's conclusions. [[The president calls.]] We're not going to take it to ourselves. We're going to learn from this. I also wondered who to learn from the conclusion. V.E.G. Minister's talking about the rejuvenating court. [[The president calls.]] He hasn't even been set up yet. He's not even on the job. [[The president calls.]] But we are going to learn from all of this. We may just be going to get these shipments from Strasbourg, as the former Justice Minister spoke of, or talk about our national commitments, such as the Chairman of the Independence Party, who made some kind of fuss that we don't even have a national commitment here, Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u19	A senator must complete his case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u20	This is disappointing. [[The president calls.]] The highest answer. Minister of Justice is a real disappointment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u21	Wait a minute. Councilmen not to be held high for a minute or so after a speech session.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u22	A respectable president. To hear the judgment, or to hear it. Senator. The Court insists that general measures are needed to resolve the problems laid down by the court and prevent further offenses. [[Up front.]] That's already been done. It was a clear conclusion from the head department that was important, which is much clearer than the conclusion of the Subcommittee. Four judges dropped out of court service, evidently to prevent further offenses based on the findings of the European Court of Human Rights. Three have received a new order by law. This sentence does not create any trouble that has not already been solved except for one judge. Judges judge for themselves appropriately and naturally that he will be given the opportunity to consider the situation. I wonder what. A senator can say what to do. In her view, what should a minister do to address a case that is appropriate for a judge? [[Up front.]] There's a reimbursement in progress. It's getting ready to be loaded. [[The president calls.]] The process was delayed that it took a long time for the General to complete the selection of the committee. [[The president calls.]] In a resurgence court, people can seek their rights. [[The president calls.]] The court's decision has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u23	The President is having trouble keeping men in speaking class, whether it is members of Congress or ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u24	A respectable president. The worst stored secret of the justice system is probably a long period of treatment. Does this rule really matter to ordinary people in the country? Yes, because there are less cases of serious criminal activity, cases have been delayed in the system, and judgments will be weaker than they would otherwise have been. It is a principle that has to do with the interests of the defendants and the violations, and it is a principle that has to do with the entire community's interests. It's so strong, it's specifically in our constitution and 6th paragraph. The European Convention of Human Rights has great significance in connection with the investigation and the prosecution. The very power of the rule is to increase on a court case. In recent years, there have been dozens of judgments, judgments in all kinds of criminal cases, e.g. In the sex crimes that I think all the people in this country consider to be the most serious in our society. This situation is not only bad to me. She's dangerous. President. The system is not responsible for this situation. That's two things. These are the rules of the game in the first place, and in the system, people do a good job, but under a lot of pressure. The reason for such problems is not complicated. The increase in the number of cases, the number of cases in the charges increased by 40% a year, the weight gain is increasing, but the number of employees does not increase accordingly. I'll mention a random rape sentence where the case had been stepped up because of a great deal of pressure within the system. These explanations do not cover courts, for the trial violates the rights of the defendant. The sentence was fully probationary. The same can be seen in the court of the United States last month, the probationary judgment in full sexual immorality. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice to treat this group: What solution does it see in this situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Indeed, it is an unsurpassed legal system that this is the result of the government's handling of matters. It was more than two and a half years ago that a formal sexual abuse strategy was introduced, with a significant aim of improving and strengthening the comprehensive treatment of such cases at national level. The police in the capital area handle most of the business. Organization in that research department has been changed. All issues are analysed from the beginning with the sears and police officers, and matters are taking the right turn. The situation is that there has been a significant increase in staff in all departments. Of course, the campaign by the district attorney is involved in an increase in sexual abuse. However, there are older cases in the system where we are still working to create the tail and the modified image, and the increased funds that have been placed in this category have not been able to interfere with that period of treatment. At the same time, the number of fractures has been reported to increase by 50%, if we aim for a comparable increase in months. But there has been a great deal of emphasis on the fast and reliable handling of matters, and now there are only two cases that wait for a year's payoff, and others are younger. We're working on the tail. There are judgments to fall, certainly, that are in the old tails we are still working up but an electronic program that has come into the police system will speed up a court treatment period and is doing so and have reduced the duration of the treatment already and have caused problems to be less relevant, for example. from the prosecutor. The study is therefore also more difficult and more thorough. There's been an increase in the number of investigators and fishermen in this field, but we're aware of the problem. I think we're straightening out the cow as fast as we can, but this sort of system change takes time, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u26	President. Thank you very much. The minister's response indicates that two and a half years have since the schedule was set. The fact is, though, that such judgments are still falling. Last of this month, I think I'm sure to do it correctly, or in November, the sentence was strictly permissible. I know, and I know it very well that many good things have been done within the system by the staff itself and electronic research programmes have not been a major problem in the system but an increase in the severity of the case and that reactions on the part of the government have not been in harmony with that. The Minister of Justice is new to this Ministry, but it's not her party, he's been sitting there continuously for seven years. It's a story that's believed to be in years, and there's judges hitting the system in such a way that we add to the limits of the human rights deal to our treatment of these substances. And what are the messages to the violations that begin with a charge that leads to this conclusion? [[The president calls.]] There is an obligation to protect the security of our citizens, and I cannot see that we do so when our society, our courts, has to pass judgment in this way because other systems do not have to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u27	A respectable president. Of course, I'm saying that it's very important to straighten out the cow, but that's what we're doing. We've been following through on this operation program, which the Justice Ministers of the Independence Party have arrived, and we have a regular post from police offices and district attorneys. It is said that the increase in standard values was of major importance to the concentrations of the embellishment resulting from an efficient investigation of sexual fractures, a shorter period of payment. There's room to work up a lawsuit that seems to be working on the numbers I get, although we're still seeing judgments in the system where the therapy period was too long and, of course, it's unacceptable. However, because of this action plan, much more has been done to cope with the needs of sexually abused persons. The information supply has been improved, the introduction of personal interfaces, even the sufferers have offered psychological therapy after reporting, etc. This is very important, all the steps guaranteed by a sex - crime plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u28	Mr. President. In the face of economic pressures, economic support has increased dramatically in the field. In Smokeytown, unemployment is now approaching 25%. It was a difficult job situation when a job crisis occurred with the Covid-19 epidemic, and in February of this year 10% was unemployment. There has been an increase of 64% this year in the financial support of Smokejanes, and if there is no longer a period of unemployment, the number of unemployed will continue to increase in the next year. The financial support of rural society is twice as low as basic non-employment. There will be an even greater improvement if the improvement period is not extended. The Continent's proposal to extend the period by 12 months had already been concluded by the management forces. Here's a suggestion for six months, which is also six months. According to the local government of Smokeynestown and ASI. [[The president calls.]] I can't believe, Mr. President, that the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is still going to make suggestions that will help the people who are the worst in Iceland in a professional crisis. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to cry, it's such a terrible badness.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u29	Mr. President. Let's hope that this is what we'll be doing in a new year, when we all get vaccinated and can go back to travel again, that we don't need unemployment insurance support. Let's hope we're there, but we're not there right now. There are people who need to rely on more than 100,000 dollars. For example, financial support is required because they have been unemployed longer than their rights allow. Not to support the suggestion of extension of this period of rights for only six months shows such wickedness. We're trying to catch people who are the worst, which is the worst. We're doing it every day. I don't understand why we're not supporting this group. Not too many of us can't catch them, and we should.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u30	President. This is where we deal with the partial improvement route. We're talking about moving the part-change route down to 30%, but directors made the decision to have only about 50% of the last summer's partial improvement. This is a result of a highly beat-down part-way process, and this is being joined by a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, which encouraged the General Assembly to re-route the part-change process. Today, the partial improvement pathway captures only those with a ratio of more than 70%, more than 70%. We're gonna leave a big group out there. The contribution process was a very good opportunity for us to keep this thread, the recruitment relationship. That's what we vote for now, to try to ensure more people continue with this working relationship. It matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u31	Mr. President. We'll make adjustments to the bill being submitted, so we'll add a paragraph to that, let's say, the third sector. It is important that those who have been in recruitment relationship but are not able to enter the partial improvement process will do so by the changes we are making here. How important and happy it is that the council is alone in doing so!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u32	A respectable president. This is where we vote on a very good case where we are extending the income-related period for most important job jobs up to six months. Pays are being increased by any child of the people on unemployment, and we are opening up the part-improvement to public society, thus resorting to more people. It's a very good thing, and I'm shocked by the language spoken by some senators who talk about wickedness. I don't think it's appropriate to talk about this to other members of the council in this matter who are doing all they can to strengthen people with well - arranged progress, including this, in order to improve their situation. [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] A large number of measures that are greatly improved by the weakest in the community have been passed here by the council and are to be respected. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u33	Mr. President. We're here to vote for a change in agricultural products, but I'd like to use this opportunity less. According to Congress, 10 of 13 comments on the subject were very negative and warned that it would be accepted, since changes are being made that will cost the consumers money. As the Neythal League pointed out, this is the only action the government has taken with the aim of minimising the impact of the commercial crown virus epidemic that would be paid especially by consumers. Mr. President. That was the ASI, the Contestant Board, and the Council of Transition in their comments. The Group of Groups opposes this bill, but it emphasizes the importance of dealing with the problem of this article and thus encourages the government to handle the problem of farmers rather with direct action in the form of financial support and to protect the consumers of the country from inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u34	Mr. President. The production of food in Iceland is not part of the viral epidemic, as is the case with other articles. She needs help and probably more than she is already available through the procedures that have been agreed on here. Of course, this is also the situation in our neighboring countries, and we have seen governments there come in more powerful and more directly to support them, not by stirring up customs. But what happens here? The cost of the operation and the help to common consumers is to be considered here. A carnivore has even. A reduction of 20 to 30% due to a lack of tourists is observed. But who will be the worst victim of the lack of tourists? It's tourism, there's 20,000 people out of work in the country. They're supposed to pay for this cost. This is ridiculous. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure we'll be able to pay a few hundred dollars more for every pound of meat we buy, but it can't be 20,000 out of work and worth the most money we've got. [[The president calls.]] This is shameful.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u35	V.E.G. President. Agricultural activity has continued for a long time, and now we have an emergency supply problem, both of the leg and in slaughterhouses, caused by Covid and as a result of the lack of visitors. This vote and what the government suggests is a step in the right direction. But we in the Middle East want to take a little larger steps and delay the invitation of tollovate to attack the problem, as it seems to work. I would suggest that the World of Congress join us in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u36	A respectable president. I support this bill, but I believe it should go a lot further, as has been done in some parts of the countries around us, e.g. in Norway, where tollvota has been delayed. To argue that this is directly affecting consumer goods is a reality that is different from what we see. [[Up front.]] Food products produced within the country do not increase, although more food is being delivered. All that happens is there'll be more waste on groceries. [[Up front.]] There's gonna be more waste and more carbon tracks. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u37	A respectable president. We are to support our food production. We're supposed to be supporting Icelandic agriculture, and we're supposed to be supporting farmers. We are to do so with direct support and green motivation. However, this is not to be done by out - of - date means; toll walls are raised and seared. But that's the way of this government. History shows that methods prolong the crisis, deepen it, and take the bite on the least ones, i.e. The houses of the land and of those of low income. That's what I'm warning you about. The Contestance Commission, including the consumers organization, warned that no consultation was made and not even a conversation was made with this party. That's serious. Reverence will not support this case because other means, as we have suggested, can be used to support farmers. If the product centres are in trouble, the corporate grants and other sponsors established by the government and the World Council must apply to them. [[The president calls.]] But this is not the wisest way to protect food production and agriculture in the country, let alone consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u38	Mr. President. This is good. Farmers today face great problems, as do other members of society, and they also need to be handled with the problem. There's a lot of supply in this country. Of course, the number of tourists and all the nations around us is now taking care of the quality of their productions, such as the agricultural field. We must do the same and be proud to defend our agricultural production. We are doing so now by altering customs arrangements. A review of the bad toll agreement was made for several years ago to take place on the responsibility of some members who are present at the council. We need to revise that contract. But now we're doing this in this way, changing the arrangement, and I believe that a body of farmers is in their trouble and that the nation is looking for Icelandic production. Guards? I'm not worried that the price of agricultural products will be any different than it used to be. [[The president calls.]] They have not increased compared to other products in the country, and import does not reflect a reduction in markets abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u39	Mr. President. I told you yesterday in advance that we in the greater part had called our change back. There's been a great discussion here. While there was pure communication, perhaps some well - known talks, I still felt that there were two things I could do, including all the comments sent on the subject; a single will to protect the Icelandic agriculture and will here at the council to do better. It's precious. That's why I've suggested what. The employment committee and the chairman of the Committee are now calling the committee between discussions because it was presented in the discussion, and has been discussed in this vote, that the problem was different and greater than that of Covid. We'll talk to the highest. Secretary of state and supreme. Agricultural minister for what further action can be taken. But finally I say: I think it's also important that we figure out how to respect the thought - provoking limits of the Covid actions during this operation as well as others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u40	A respectable president. I support this case, and I think it's very important for domestic production. I think it's very special if we talk about saving the agriculture by some other means, as if it's taken out of the air. The consumers must suffer, and farmers are also consumers, if we start changing their strength. It is also about food security. Manufacturers have provided practical suggestions that have been adopted here on food security. All the nations are about to take that matter more seriously and be more alert to the import of food, and it matters to us. I don't trust the store to return this profit to the consumers because she hasn't done it until now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u41	A respectable president. The discussion on this subject has been very interesting in many ways. That is why it is proper to review a few of the leading points. January 1, the rules for tenders were changed. This was done on the basis of a job that was produced by a group of workers appointed to represent farmers, industry, and consumers. Conditions have changed, as everyone knows and recognizes and recognizes. Indiscriminate effects on farmers and agriculture in the country are undisputed. This bill is set up to meet that position, limit damage, and temporarily adopt an earlier form of tollovata distribution. The bottom line is that the result of this government is a system of tollovate distribution that is more beneficial for Icelandic consumers than the system that then became agrienvironmental minister and the head of Corrections left behind. After all these statements and empty accusations, it is a simple, clear fact. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u42	A respectable president. No matter what anyone says, the way of the Independence Party in the midst of a crisis is to strike oceans. Let's get this straight. It is the course of the Independence Party in this matter. I notice this discussion, and agree with what. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, that we use the harmony here in the hall to help with the Icelandic agriculture. It will not be done through seas and increased toll protection, against including the ASI single indication that the organization is concerned including of the homes of the land, of the consumers who must be kept in all matters of agriculture. I'm also concerned about the worsening farm contracts in response to the products. It has been repeated in the discussion of the Committee. There's no ambition here on the part of the government when it comes to it. It's not being handled. We need to strengthen the agreement between farmers and their influence when dealing with the products. [[The president calls.]] This is our joint project, and let's take it out of this discussion to support and strengthen Icelandic agriculture. [[The president calls.]] But it will not be done through the head.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u43	Mr. President. There is no dispute here as to whether it belongs or needs to support the food products, which are certainly having problems. This is a question of how to do it. And because of what? Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir said that there was no other way but to do this by considering this on the consumers, I just want to protest it because the whole year we've been doing it by public action. I don't recall a request made by the executives during a massive operation to assist an airline, that it should be financed by higher passenger costs, or supported by a group travel company, that it should be done with some passenger fees or carbon tax. This refers to having consumers in the country pay for specific assistance with this article. We are to support farmers and food producers, but we should do so in the same way that we have done before, this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u44	A respectable president. I feel tired, and I find it best not to say quite honestly that if anyone wants to go another way, they do not show understanding or support the one discussed. As it turned out, it was fine by reason of reason. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, then, is undisputed among officials and members of Congress that the problem is huge and that we need to respond with great action. There's no disagreement about that. I want to pray. Councilmen to stop pretending that there is a difference, as it is not. There's a change in motion from what's happened. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir we'll be supporting. We object, not because we are in some way opposed to farmers, who are naive to that view, but because we want to go another way. This way is bad, and it has negative effects against us. So we vote against the case and the changes made by the Central Party, which are even worse than by the changes I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u45	Mr. President. As in times past, the gang of members of the General Assembly is all following the same ambulance who throws dust into the eye of consumers over the matter and who pretends it to be some form of an indiscretion. The flag of Correction always falls in the camp doors to him because it is always marked by parentheses that there is 60% property and market share of one company in Iceland. And if we were to put ourselves in harm's way for increasing competition and freedom, they would present themselves with a real proposal for a change in competitiveness and compression. [[Taken out: there's a...]] But this is not done. They will come, and men will tread, and men will tread. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It's hard, and they're trampling on one another to follow the same ambulance, as lawyers do in America. It's not easy, Mr. President. It's not easy. [[The point is: Yes, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u46	A respectable president. We vote on a matter involved in the arrangement of detoxovation. When we decide how to enter our country with meat products from other countries, it builds on customs that we have recently made to increase the quantity that may come to our country. When we make a decision on the scope of the decision, we are looking to the production in our country and what the need is. That's what we're gonna do. Similarly, the arrangement for the distribution of tollovata is part of decisions that must be made in this regard. When we made a decision about the current arrangement, there were other conditions, a much greater demand in the country for tourists. It is only a normal response on our part when the criteria for the transformation are changed, to reevaluate tollovate, because the basis for today's arrangement is smiling. This one would have thought everyone would see, but unfortunately it doesn't seem like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u47	A respectable president. In this matter, consumers and farmers meet. Both are to have their rights, especially consumers, and it probably affects those mentioned in this society, whether they can afford meat. They're the rice. Most amazing of all, people are thinking of going back to the old gaped rubber boots, holes, and leaks back to the past. Don't you think about the future? I'm sure you forgot, but you were all wet in your feet with your shoes on. It's been tried. It's not good, it's no good. No, let's just go back there and be there because in some memory it was really good to be there. Think ahead, think about consumers, think about farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u48	Mr. President. In this discussion, I often feel forgotten about the number of farming jobs in the country, not just farmers and farms, but the related jobs in food production. I'm looking at them, too. We now live in a state of unemployment. We do not want to increase unemployment by reducing the number of people in this profession. A great many are serving in the food industry in the country, and all their resources depend on land agriculture to flourish. It matters. The United States spoke extensively about unemployment in the last case, where we were strengthening those who are unemployed. In this situation, I ask the United States to look to the many sidepages in the food industry in which they are talking down to change the arrangement for soil management of customs for the benefit of agriculture under the difficult conditions that we are living in today. I'm asking the United States to think it a little further.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u49	Mr. President. We welcome each step in the right direction, especially when it is a step toward meeting only the Icelandic agriculture because the article has been left out. Today, after months of action to cope with the effects of the epidemic, we finally have a small bill to respond to the status of agriculture and food production and, in a way, some time. I also rejoice that here, among other things, representatives of the greater part have come to recognize that this is not enough, that more is needed. Even those who are going to resist this issue, for reasons totally incomprehensible, admit that the problem is large, vast, and requiring much action. Then, Mr. President, I remind us of our proposal in the Central category for measures to meet Icelandic food production and begin the application and prompting a dignified president to apply himself under these circumstances, to have heard the will of the council, that this case will be in the most rapid progress here at the council. I'll hand over a copy to the President... [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u50	President thanks for the shipment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u51	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter, however, gave up our group and encouraged us to support the many people who work with the article because we care about those who are jobseekers today. I want to come up here to encourage you. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Rafney to listen to our talks in the United States before she starts to express herself about them and lays down on them, because that's exactly what we're doing, we're thinking about those who are working in the article, but we're also thinking about the public in the country. Here we have supported various employment issues, and we are doing so today and tomorrow, but in this case we should not support the article. In this case, all incursions on consumers should be put in a professional crisis. It's a very strange method at the same time that many people fight in banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u52	Mr. President. Just because of this discussion, which is the way it is, I'd like to ask you why. Councilmen: Where should the farmer call tomorrow, who has overcrowded bars, doesn't come apart, and the problem arises? I would like to ask those who are concerned about consumers in this matter and because of these circumstances, which I'm not going to belittle: How can it get into such a position we are, that we can expect a great deal of money when what needs to be taken care of, you know, can be deputized to the well - being of the animals for a long time? This is a very serious situation, a respectable president. I want us to take seriously what we're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u53	Mr. President. I agree with the last speaker. We need to take this seriously. Some people around the world wonder whether this is a temporary reaction to the problems of farmers because of the Korean epidemic or taking advantage of the opportunity to return to the past, the ancient view of a member of Congress as the heavenly Kingdom. I object and join with those who have spoken here, especially the president of the Cradle, why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, of which there are other ways. We need to face the challenges we face in agriculture, and it comes from an out - of - date funding system in the foundation if we are talking about a real desire to be reformed for those who now operate in agriculture, and we want to work in the long run. I call for more ideas from those present at the management board, more ideas about promoting agriculture, the problem of farmers than just raising customs and putting spells on consumers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There must be a way to find better ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u54	A respectable president. What is it about? It's about food security. All the nations of the world are now focused on it. We stand at a critical point in agriculture, not just in Iceland, but everywhere. Everyone is thinking about how we can prevent contamination between animals and humans. One of the things we've done very well here in Iceland is think about it. I ask Iceland's General Assembly to take care of food security, not just for a short time, but for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u55	A respectable president. See, there are other ways to support local agriculture, support local farmers, and take into account consumers at the same time than to go by the government, which is a road and customs barrier that has even been used. affect the price of food baskets to Icelandic homes. This is one way, so we offer the restoration of this proposal to increase the amount of bone strength for farmers and give them the highest level. Aggressor is authorized to negotiate with farmers in advance of informed rules. This is a proposal to support the EU food production directly, to support it for a shorter and longer time, and I encourage you to say yes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u56	A respectable president. We support a change in plans. The above - mentioned senator emphasizes that there are solutions to problems other than those suggested by the government, and that is also a very reason to discuss more. I am so happy that this subject will be discussed with a committee. In fact, I'm not particularly optimistic about the fact that there will be a great deal of transition among council members, but, of course, it's good to hope for the best. This adjustment suggests what we have been saying over and over again, as if somehow proof of some fault, that it is the full will of all in this Assembly Hall to meet the needs of the food plants, farmers, and farms. I want so much to talk about something else. It was mentioned here earlier, and then it came out of nowhere. Senator Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and repeat the bullshit. A respectable president. We do not have to stick together because we do not agree. [[The president calls.]] At any rate, let us be clear where the body of Congress stands in recognition of the problem itself. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u57	V.E.G. President. We in the Central Party will vote with this proposal, but I'd like to justify that we are paying a vote here and we're dealing with a case that is in urgent need of agricultural supplies. This route alone does not solve the crisis. She's here, she's got money, so just shut up. I might take it if I were in this position, but it wouldn't solve the problem. We are faced with an emergency problem that we need to solve, and the motion of the Central Party is just in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u58	Before taking up the fourth session, a financial programme, he wants to inform us that the president intends to offer an expedite counterrequisite due to the greater historical debate so that a representative from each of the opposing classes can respond for two minutes a year and one minute a second.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u59	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee's members a greater part of the budget for proposals to be agreed with the budget of financial management for the years 20211⁄22025. First, I want to review why we are here just before Christmas discussing a financial program that should be in the spring work period. Because of the special circumstances in the community today because of the pandemic, a special decision and a second legal bill were decided that a financial program for the next year would appear until the fall of the year that has been discussed here at Congress and at the turn of the year. The budget board, along with the discussions and coverage of a budget bill now waiting for 3. According to the nature of the case, several sources of collective comments on budget and budget, and perhaps the debate on the budgets, which were here the other day considerably, as well as the financial debate will take into account. However, here we are, following the review of a financial committee, a commission to bring up the discussion under the committee, and I am now trying not to settle accounts too far overdue for the time and for the rest of the Council. I just want to review the main goals of financial planning. Public financial material is now the best way to get out of the pandemic's deep unexpected crisis. The aim has been made to bring a competitive society based on intensive economics and powerful human resources. Public funds are consistently used to ensure stability and create economic resistance. It also emphasizes the protection of health and health benefits achieved. The economic demand will continue with valuable jobs and investments and emphasis on research, innovation, education, infrastructure and climate and environment. Then there will be resistance to unforeseen events guaranteed by a reduction in the debt and sustainability of public funds so that future generations will not be lost. The objectives of the programme are clear and can be set up into five teams and covered here briefly: First of all. A blowout in the power of success in terms of government. Good progress in government over the past few years is good in the face of challenges. If last year's GDP had not dropped the debt of state funds and passed less than 30% of the gross domestic product, it would have been much more difficult to take on what really happens today during the crisis. Second of all. Emphasis on innovation and infrastructure. The program is being proclaimed to continue building in many areas of society. These include health - care funding, the promotion of education system at both advanced and university levels, increased emphasis on innovation and research, large transport initiatives, construction of tourism sites, and a host of other building projects. Third, please. We'll take it easy on people and companies. Two main objectives are the implementation of financial management programmes. On the one hand, there is a reduction of spells, including with the third tax step, to increase the public budget and improve the competitiveness of the economy. The plan, however, takes into account the effects of the crisis without the rise in taxes against the loss of state funds. Fourth off. Investment and prerogatives of investments. At the beginning of the season, it was apparent that significant investments were needed because there was an internal need forinvestment and maintenance. In current economic conditions, there is an even further increase in investment levels due to measures in dealing with the economic effects of the epidemic. A special investment campaign was approved, and the scope of that is over 100 billion dollars. The magnitude of several projects is that it includes the years 2024 and 2025. Fifth and final. A debt stopped during the scheduled period. Now it's headed for the sum of the state funds at this level, and next year, 600 billion dollars are approaching. As a result, the debt as a proportion of GDP could increase from 30% to less than 50% of GDP by the end of 2021. A continued home run after 2021 is not sustainable in the long run. The plan expects effective measures to stop the increase in the debt of the government as a share of GDP in 2025. This is the main objective of the programme, to disrupt the cycle of debt collection and exchange at the end of the programme. Second, I refer to the opinion of the greater section, where we will discuss the changed circumstances and the basis for the plan from its introduction and submission. We will discuss different economic forecasts published during the discussion period. I just want to say that, in my mind, it has once again made certain and fixed on the horizon, since it is now soon assumed that vaccination will start in Iceland and in many other places where, though, there is some certainty about the end of the situation that has lasted for almost a year. Thus, we can say that long - term economic prospects have improved, although we cannot yet accurately predict how powerful the resistance will be, but we know that it will come, and it can be said that in a certain way that the horizon is drawing on less uncertainty for a long time. In the largest section, we deal with the fluctuating role of public funds. I grab down this section: Specific compensatory measures due to pandemic crown virus have been taken with the goal of reducing economic contractions and reducing unemployment. This year it is estimated that the cost of direct countermeasures in the state's budget is nearly 100 billion dollars. or 3.4% of gross domestic product. Of these, 85 billion can be found. On the budget gate and about 13 billion bucks. On the income side. The next year, the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs estimates the magnitude of the objections to a total of less than 53 billion dollars. or about 1.7% of GDP. Of these, 35 billion can be found. On the budget gate and the 17 billion pence. On the income side. It should be noted that this is merely the countermeasures that directly influence the survival of the State Fund. The counterweight measures are financed by the loans of state funds. As the economy is formed and production factors are malnourished, the growth of government spending can have a significant impact on the economy. The Ministry of Economics and Economics estimates that the state of the budget is now between 0.3 and 0.4. This means that if government spending increases by 1% of gross domestic product, economic growth will be 0.33/4.4% higher. This is a reference to what is being presented through these counter measures and financial expenses. First of all, there is considerable growth in economic growth and support for the advancement of projects and employment levels in the country, protecting homes and businesses. In view of the greater part, financial body opinions are discussed, according to Article 13. a law on government finance is required by a financial body to provide assessments and opinions on financial plans and to publish the key points of a financial committee in our committee and also to put up with the follow-up because of the numerous comments made by earlier years. Hv. The budget has either met with a variety of indications or a greater proportion alone, and we recognize them in our opinion and how we are gradually developing the strategy, the interaction of financial schemes and budgets, the review of financial advice, and then the work of the Parliament in terms of government policy. The majority of the section's called "Subjects" due to 2nd. Money was well discussed on rural society and its survival. We only add this information in our opinion of a financial programme because we may now have, since we returned a committee program for 2nd. the budget, a slightly clearer picture of the community's position and say here in the text: The rural population had originally assumed a larger increase in income from 2019, or near 5%, but the average level of legal income is now predicted to rise by about 3%. Legal income is an expansive, real estate taxes, and even tax pay. In comparison, a 13% decrease in total state funds is expected. The situation is better than expected this summer. A table published in this article shows the results of the original financial programmes of rural society compared to the year's outcomes, as well as the debt rate and scope of investments. Clearly, the epidemic's negative effects on financial affairs are significant. There are some 2 billion debts. below the predicted summer level, but still their debt ratio increases to about 90% of the management income. In turn, rural society has increased investments over the year, thus sharing in a financial debt to provide resistance to the economic crisis. I also want to guess, more dignified President, that the cooperation between state and rural society, which actually keeps out of the policy of public finance in its entirety, is in place, and has recently agreed on the main goals for the next year on various standards and goals worthy of attention, and is fundamental to policy plans in public finance for the coming years. Now, I've come to the Committee where we produce a change in proposals, but changes in financial programmes lead mainly to a change of two. Funds where we are actually moving the core of what was then brought about by the great change that the budget took over, from 1 to 2 pages. As a result, about 55 billion increase and some measures that result primarily from the retroviral epidemic, including 20 billion penalties, affect financial programmes for the next year. And since there is a five-year financial programme, we'll lead it into the income and the pay tables of the programme in the way it is done. But I'd like to refer to the committee, as we say about the adjustment of the proposals: This development accounts for the aims of financial policy taking into account uncertainty, but it is expected to take advantage of about half of the uncertainty of the shift between the next year. The government's attitude is lower than in previous financial programme discussions and has decreased 1.9% of GDP in 2021 and about 0.5% of GDP in the years since it has been estimated to change the extent of the restitution of measures in 2020,52025. A major change from a previous round. Turns to the remuneration side of the state's budget, but the budget of the state funds has been updated in line with the changes made at 2nd. budgets for 2021 and 3rd C.E. The financial program discusses improved measures, and they are not implemented after 223 C.E. Naturally, because of our less income and increased expenditures, the work that we have described is being added to the way we have been doing it and is listed in financial pills. Although we look at the extended projects up to the range of 40 billion a year to achieve our targets of debt discontinuation - without any special application here during a discussion at the General Assembly of 2020 for what reactions we can take in public business in 2020 or later - I would like to say that this approach, to plan for this project, and to state as clearly as to what lies ahead, it is my responsibility. It can also change very quickly, to worse or better, and I think we're now more people who believe that the resistance becomes more powerful than forecasts say. But even if we get stronger, I'd just like to say that we have the financial resources, loans, so close that we can't let anything go badly. That is why I say, luckyly, the state funds were prepared very well for such a shock. We had good opportunities to deal with this, and it is vital that we have restored the treasure, for these are certainly not our last traumas and must be able to cope with it. A respectable president. I do not spend time disintegrating the proposals of the Committee in other ways that involve the income of the state's funds and expenses, but I want only a little less on what is on the side of the pay, which may be expenses that reflect primarily the resistance that the government has prepared. This is mainly evident in increased donations for health and education, but most of all because of innovation, research, and knowledge, and is now proposed by almost 3 million. K. increase to that class. The increase can be attributed to the changes in the current year, which included increased support for innovation. In 2022, a greater proportion of the time measures planned for the year 2021 are expected to collapse. I think it is important that all of the measures we have taken to promote innovation and to provide longer - term support for the economy, with up to a 73% rise in contributions to this project or group of legal matters, be considered when we consider them as a whole. It has been criticized that these contributions go down to the second part of the schedule, which must be aware of how much and how much injections were at that time in order to actually compare them together. For other spending changes, about 1 billion dollars is proposed. the increase in transport and 900 billion. K. for up-to-date budget of the purchase of a new marine research vessel. These are the main points, the dignified president, the points referred to by the Committee on Greater Parts, and the proposed changes. All I want to do is end up dealing specifically with the government's debt ratings over the years 2021/2025. It may be the part of this case and the government that all of us should be concerned about and should be constantly included in our heads and on rhythms of how things are developing so that we can handle responsibility, for the financial agenda is primarily about firmness and resistance, to defend what we have built up in recent years, to keep the economy more powerful than it would be if we were not able to do so. The commission states: In line with an updated rating, public credit ratings have been re-evaluated. Official debt is now expected to be more than 49% of GDP by the end of the next year and up until 2025 when it becomes more than 60% of GDP. This is almost unchanged debt development as expected in the proposal, but the scope of the restitution of measures has increased in the years 2023/2025. As noted earlier, the core policy limit in public finance assumes that the debt of the government will be stopped in 2025. It is noted that the plan assumes that the debt of the state funds increases less than that of the reduction from the budget input. In particular, there are three factors. First, an updated income plan provides a more direct change in the financial base than in the management database. Second, because of the past year's failures in funding budgets for financial programmes, the first year had reached stability, but both have led to a higher estimate of the rate at the start of the next year, which reduces the need for loans. Third, the impact of government counter measures during the year in some cases has been overrated in the 2020 payment program. All of this together leads to less but limited debt. There is reason to draw attention to this, sometimes in all of our work there is also positive news, and there is reason to draw attention to the fact that despite the expenses we are offering and reevaluating income forecasts, we are reaching our debts, and I think it is extremely important. A respectable president. The greater part suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the changes explained in this opinion and a proposal is made for a special Senate document. Under the writings of Willum Þór Þórsson, chairman of the Board of Sheep, Haraldur Benediktsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Turra, and Páll Magnússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for history, and would like to begin only with the demand for efficiency and economy in all of the government's activities, it is lacking in this financial programme. It can easily be done without the help of those who need help in the problems we now face and in the great unemployment. That it takes five years to balance the financial situation with the State is a very long time. It is not expected in the bill that there will be subsidies in debt, but that decrease would be a percentage of GDP. That's how the debt is to be worked, and then there's little room for government money. Thus, new governments face challenging assignments, and they need to be careful about the priorities of the government in difficult circumstances. Ragnar Árnason recently said that the great hail that is now at the state's fund may result in the long - term economic impact of the virus epidemic, the need for economic growth, if not to come to an incision or a tax increase. Then he adds at the end and says that it is not predictable. I would've liked to get a second opinion. A senator and an executive, the Haraldur son of Benediktsson, at these comments and how they can be faced if they are following the expected growth in the program as a way of removing the debt. [[The president calls.]] After all, he's not predictable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In many ways, it is very normal for the senator to think about this. I think that in the work of the legal committee, all of us have been in the same situation. It is difficult to predict the future, and we would certainly not be doing this work today if we had seen the future. I think we can use one of the comparisons that maybe answer the question. A senator in certain ways. We saw, compared with our neighboring countries, the Scandinavian states, how tough our contractions in Iceland were, much worse than in other places where we were going down less than 10% while the production and economic growth of other countries were shrinking or perhaps slower together. It also gives us an opportunity to conclude that the resurrection will also be sharp so that the reversal, or frontal, will also be powerful, perhaps in the context of the crisis, the reversal, or the contraction. Of course, we do not know this, but we can do so by reviewing the evidence I witnessed here. We're building this strategy on long-term future economic forecasts. Hv. A senator asks for the opinion of the excellent economist Ragnar's Árnason. Then I'm just going to say, " I have this vision, I believe in a more powerful way of fighting,'but maybe it's a projection. We're not putting it up to the plan or point it directly to it. But the economics may be taken seriously in that way, as I addressed in my history, that the debt collection, if excessive and much larger, can be with us for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Hv. The senator mentioned it in his excellent speech that it takes little to make things change for the worse, and it really is a crisis in the lowest line when it comes to debt, and I feel the same way. No good news has just been received, since news has been received that we receive less vaccine than expected, and it is not even possible to reach so - called sheep resistance until late the next year and even until 2022. So little is needed for these things to change. As a result, I wondered about the new news that is not at all good: What is the situation regarding debt collections, or how long has a trust fund been maintained? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u63	Mr. President. I reviewed it in a discussion with the budget talk that, in addition to this uncertainty, we didn't quite know which communities were back from the ashes. That might also be an adjustment. I'm not worried about government funds for the next year, the budget and the toleration of state funds for the expenses that are available there. The news of the vaccine is such as this in these days, I don't think it's safe to conclude very strongly from today whether it will draw its wood on the road, but then we'll be up from the middle of the next year, I think, in spite of the news of a vaccine, fully realistic and recovered on the basis that it will only go back to the oceans and that the economy can start building up. I don't think there's any other news today that can't confirm that it can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u64	Mr. President. We're talking financial programs for five years. These are not financial laws, this is a five - year financial plan, and then we can look to the future. This document shows the government's vision for the future, a five - year vision. That's why I want a little focus on the future. I think everybody agrees that we need to focus much more on climate and environment. The ministers seem to realize this. They have held a press conference after a press conference, write articles on how this should set an ambitious climate goal. That's good. But then, when we look into the numbers, which is our part, and I actually urge the media to do the same thing, to see who the evolution becomes a set of topics, a subject matter. You would have thought that all this environmental emphasis, all this emphasis on climate, would be displayed in the table when it comes to funding environmental and climate issues. What's the situation? Let the numbers speak for themselves. From the introduction of the financial programme in October to the introduction of an updated document this week, environmental contributions changed by 0.3% for the next year. The increase is about 0.3% from the date offered in this document in October according to what is now available. The increase for 2022 is 1.2%, 1.8% 2023, etc. If I make up a total of 2021/225, the increase is 7.7% in the environment over five years. Is this an environmental revolution? Is it a green revolution to increase money only by 7.7% in the budget? [[The president calls.]] Where's the money, Mr. President? Words may be inexpensive, but if we hurt something we say, the management parties must be prepared to place quite a bit more money on the environment and especially on the climate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u65	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect both the first and the second times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with him about the development of environmental issues that are a very important group of subjects, for the case of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter has reflected it very closely. It is that only half the truth is to deal with this in a way that is common. A senator does, as he watches a financial plan and draws conclusions from it but forgets to tell the story. All of this is simply that in 2017, 16.4 billion went to the lawsuit. The budget of 2021, now confirmed at 2nd. that is just less than 25 billion bucks, 8 billion bucks. increase, 48.2%. That's a lot of money. That's not fair. A senator, yet he knows that if he decides to discuss this in a way that he chooses to do in order to draw out a particular picture, I do not comment on it. It is these financial resources, the extra money we should be looking to when it comes to it. A senator then starts to calculate and relight the figures from a table on how expenses will develop. However, there is a 7% rise above this dramatic increase that has occurred in recent years, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u67	Mr. President. It is not unreasonable to refer to these numbers. Yes, I'm criticizing that there's too little room here in climate and environment. I realize there are 25 billion people in the environment, but that's less than 1% of the budget. Do the voters know that the government is ready to put less than 1% of what the government has from gambling in the environment? And the addition to 2021 was 0.1% of land production. It was over 3 billion years apart. Of these, half went to the surface. The only change the government was willing to make in the environment between discussions was the strength to prayer. It was the proposal that the Committee put in the environment, an extremely peculiar approach to its subsidies to write it as an environment. Yes, the numbers are inexorably in front of the nation and all of us. It is simply too low in the environment, 1% is too small, and despite all these dramatic and massive statements from the bottom. A candidate and others in the environment are not affected in the tables between discussions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u68	V.E.G. President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator may disagree whether this is much or little. But there is a significant increase in environmental issues, and it is permanent, hadn't it? A senator must understand that. I can't wait for that turn-out of my life. A senator is in. But I respect his wanting to put more money on the environment, that's just another matter, but he can't draw up the discussion on the point of saying that we're neglecting environmental issues when the facts are quite different. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u69	President. I would like to accept only a different approach to public finances than to the rest of the classes. We want to see the results of the budgets we're talking about here, not necessarily how much money we're going here and there, but what the results are really from them, so we can do very little for a little. With that attitude, I would rather ask: " How is the more part, the government, to explain to us that funding is well spent on the work being done here, e.g. Climate? Although I see large amounts of money coming into the lawsuit, I do not see the results of their use. There is no explanation of what this money goes on and what its effect is. And as I've always said here, there's no expense assessment, there's no profit analysis that says what the benefits of using the funds are. It's the problem when it all comes down to, not that only 1% more or something like that goes to this party, but what effect we'll see on it and what results we get and what problems we'll solve with it. It's the politics of Pirata. I'm worried about that, as shown in a case. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, see here reports of disease prevention in the middle of the year, at least. That's 10% of the budget time. But there is really no reference to the impact of this financial program on which it is concerned, nothing. [[The president calls.]] It's not an attempt to make some kind of scene about how we get out of the code, it's just that we're gonna take care of it as we do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u70	The President still insists on that. Senators are worth deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Hv. A senator will stay in familiar places, perhaps not much in political terms, how we use money, but how we do it, and it is also necessary to take that discussion. That's what I'm going to say, and it's important that we have clear goals, clear terms, and the results we're achieving. That's what we're trying to figure out, and that knows why. A senator well, how we are developing those standards and putting money ahead of us so that we follow those standards. In view of the financial Council, it is very carefully discussed, e.g. how we should evaluate the results of investment projects. In fact, I've just wondered how we appreciate the results of such projects, the exploitability of projects. I think it's important, of course, that we set up investments according to their profits and how much it makes the community more money to attack such investments. But I think, in many ways, we need to be careful with these measures, and I'm just taking this little example because I don't think it's quite a simple project to use such a standard. It can be, as I mentioned in some conversation, useful in building a operating room in Reykjavík but not as useful as building it in a Nes shop. Yet, the impact of investments in the construction of an operating room in Ness shop may be extremely important to the area, to the people's willingness to live there, and to their sense of security. This is the problem, I'm trying to lead the discussion, a respectable president, it is difficult to set such standards, but there are precisely standards that we need to use when we set expenses, that they are transparent and understandable, and that we understand the benefits of the money we make to the relevant seminars.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u72	President. I apologize for the time use. This is where it went. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson is very well aware of why it is political to want to do things right, that the form in this is right, that we follow the laws we have set to do things well. There's my political bitch. There's a political Pizza, doing things good and doing things right. If we have a cost-and-benefit analysis of developing health care in other parts of the country, in Akureyri, in the Eglsaure, at Nessau, at Isafjord, or however, if we have the impact of this assessment, then we can make a political informed decision to plan to go in that direction, because I don't doubt that this is a good decision. But without considering that effect, we have no basis to make that decision unless we have to guess. I'm not in the politics business of wanting to guess.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u73	Mr. President. Hv. A senator may not have left me a question in his later answer but continued discussing what I think we are fundamentally in agreement with, that we need to have clear standards. But I'll let myself, despite the fact that the senator's failure to respond to me, to say, "I can figure out this political Pirata, that he wants to have the right to have the right and the clear standards. But what does Pirates generally think? What emphasis do they want to place in the community with the use of government funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u74	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for his history and passage. We're now trying to peer into the future under some particular situation, I think it's safe to assert. Both are late financial programs, as we know, and early next year we need to begin with its revision. Then the days of the present government are to be counted in the sense that elections are in nine months, so the situation is very special. But what I wanted in this short answer to mention is that the debt of state funds has grown very much and it will grow in the period, the time of prophecy. In 2025 it is expected to be close to 60% of the national product. Then the interest level of such debt is so important, and of course it is uncertain. But we do know that we, or state funds, at least under our present circumstances, pay considerably higher than other government funds in Europe. So by 2025, about 2% of the land's production is growing. [[The president calls.]] There are 60 billion per year, an enormous amount of money, while other European countries pay about 1%. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A member of the council is able to handle this and why this problem exists, i.e. The interest level.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and agree with him that we are in a very special situation in which we are involved in a financial agenda, and it is short on the next round, which will be the financial programme of a government that has only a few months in its terms. This is very special, and we may be thinking about how we use these equipment. But I think the plan is very necessary and precious. I'm going to remember that when we were working on official financial law in 2014 and 2015, one of the factors that we were comparing these legislation with other countries was that political parties had to go through financial schemes of some kind with their policies. Perhaps it would be valuable in this situation when such a situation is established in our economic situation that we have a responsible way of considering in the long run what groups offer so that people can have a clear choice in these matters. But during this time of the year, we may simply ask, " What does the future hold? ' I understood a question. A senator with regard to the government's financial expenses and the interest level, we are naturally concerned about this. Unfortunately, I didn't have the option or time to take data with me here, but I've only been turning into old government bills and looking at interest levels or the burden of interest paid over the years. It seems to me now, or as it appeared in this program, it does not be much larger than it was, e.g. Before the crash. But I say this without a guarantee. I couldn't get the data out so I could quote them directly. A respectable president. How do I feel about the growth rate, and what is the reason for this high growth rate? I'm going to answer that question by saying, "The wealth of the Kingdom is a good credit card, and it borrows a good one. - My time has run out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer is made by a senator who agrees that it would be a worthy task to examine more carefully how such financial involvement could take place between terms of election. Of course, that's a challenge, but it's based on a little changing a little bit of political activity and having more cooperation on long - term financial goals, which may be difficult. But I would like to ask them directly about these interest issues: Is it really possible that despite any measure of interest in interest of a interest fund, they are far less favorable than for any other government fund? Could it be that we live in the midst of a speck? And that this is actually just another manifestation of the Iceland European Union, which many call, as Icelanders, i.e. Government funds, homes, and businesses have to pay for the dollar and whether this stress has not become complete. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u77	Mr. President. I thought I knew exactly what to say. A senator was going to have. He answered himself and had a firm view of it. I think there are other factors that can explain this much more than just a dollar. I think it is also reflected in our swinging economy, which is based on the use of natural resources so much that even if we look at the seabeds or travel services in those resources. If we pick up another coin, we will not lose the patience. I don't think we'll solve everything with another coin and though we're gonna have to. A senator has come to believe that I don't have it. But the crown's benefits are also light to me, and I think it would be important to discuss in this context how it can function through this fluffy economy, which, unfortunately, is unchanging, and I'm just going to leave it in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u78	V.E.G. President. I'm the highest. For example, in the United States alone, the president of the United States has been able to help us get a discussion of the state of the largest subject of the year, and apparently even the next month's crown virus, since it has now been informed that they will not receive the expected doses of the vaccine, i.e. to a much lower extent than man expected. The CDC has informed us that we will not achieve good herd resistance until the latter part of the next year and will no doubt have to live under restrictions until the next year. This, of course, will affect every day's life in this country, the economy of the country, and almost everything, as we have seen in a discussion of the various issues before the council. Therefore, I believe it is absolutely necessary, indeed, that the council is being discussed on these issues and information sources from the government so that we can better see what is going and what authority. V.E.G. President. I'm pointing, for example. The number of shares in Icellands has fallen by 12% the remainder of this report, and the same impacts will be seen elsewhere in the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u79	V.E.G. President. A P.R. meeting today requires further questions where fewer doses of vaccine will be received. I am so worried. I am concerned about what is meant by a psychiatrist's words about the need for us to live with continued limitations. It seems to me all other countries of Europe have their plan, but we are told today that our lives can be normal here first from the middle of the next year. I wondered if there is any reason to call a meeting on a welfare committee, now if not, to get a detailed memo from a minister who fully explains this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u80	Mr. President. Today's demand for a response from the government. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The victory over Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, who rode here, is absolutely necessary for governments to respond, informing what is really to be expected about vaccinations, material, priorities, and related things. In order for the people to know what they are walking, a satisfying transparency must be over them. We've seen that the situation is very sensitive to this virus. It has been a place where flood and tide, known as well as continued limitations, are something very difficult to accept, although, of course, there is more to be done than is desired in that subject. [[The president calls.]] But how much more important it is to know what is expected of us as to the subject and the vaccinations and the priorities established by the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u81	Mr. President. I'd like to put a few words together in view of the news received from a meeting of a psychiatrist this morning. We will now discuss a financial program at the council, and the following will be discussed with the funds and funds before the council takes a Christmas break. Of course, morning news has a significant bearing on all the underlying factors. It's only been a few days since the highest. Healthcare Minister said that we could start vaccination within the first weeks of the new year and that the target of vaccination would be achieved in approximately The first quarter of the year. Now we're getting a whole different message, so I wonder if there's anything else I can do but send a financial committee back to a hearing with the intention of taking these three cases into account the apparent changed position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u82	Mr. President. We just got some really good news. Business life in this country has been paralyzed for nine months. Now we're getting the news that they may be paralyzed for as long as they go, and why? We heard the British are about to be vaccinated. Vaccination is also fully localized in the United States. There seems to be some confusion about vaccination in Iceland. Had, for example. Can you take note of the licenses of the European Medicines Agency? Would it have been worth the effort and be started sooner? What's the deal? How was the negotiation done? Did we have to tie ourselves to Europe or not? Many questions remain, Mr. President, and despite the fact that Christmas vacation is ahead of the council members, I believe it is so important for Icelandic employment that we have to record it at the General Assembly and discuss it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u83	V.E.G. President. The news of the morning is more than concern. They are worse than new sweat, so it is quoted in the good book Ástrík. We need to know now if Iceland is the only country in this part of the world that gets a sixth of the orders set in the pharmaceutical company Pfizer, or whether it's the only land in this part of the world that's the same in all Europe and even in the United States. We need to know why that is. They're talking about vaccine raw content and I remind you that we're as numerous as ugars, so it can't take much raw materials to complete our reservations. But we need to understand if it is in general that the nations have had a reservation like this or if we are alone, and then we need to know how these contracts were conducted, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u84	A respectable president. Here we are discussing the government's financial program, which is their heading for the next five years. When things like this come up that affect the first 10% of the time, I believe that it is only natural for us to get prime minister, health minister, and financial minister during our discussion to explain to us what is really going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u85	V.E.G. President. I think there's every reason to take action. paritaprevir The Sigmunds of Davíð Gunnlaugsson's son and the information is given, received a report, a medical minister, and even other advisers mentioned here on their situation. What if something's gone wrong with the contract? Then you need to know what it is. It seems to me that something went wrong when people were making these deals. In any case, it is clear that Britain and the United States have begun to be vaccinated, as well as in other countries. It begins December 27, in the whole European Union, compared with what you read in the media. Why can't you do this in Iceland? And here it has also been observed that if the worst predictions come true, if the predictions of an infectious surgeon are fulfilled, if we do not achieve full herd resistance here until late in the latter part of the next year, it will mean a much deeper economic impact than we are looking forward to today. The groundwork for financial and financial planning is now breaking down. I'm sure we have to pay attention to this, chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it would be wise for the President to invite a health minister to have a verbal report, as the health minister has done twice before and also other ministers. It's important that there's a discussion here at the council. On top of that, it's important to watch that the CDC has been maintained very well. However, we need to know what this will be like when a vaccine comes. Let's not paint the picture darker than it is. As more people are vaccinated, the less they will need to be treated for the disease because those who are vaccinated and who have resistance are like they are well alcoholised and masked everywhere. I'd like to know what percentage of vaccinees must be high, maybe have to go up in, I think, 82% maximum, possibly 60%. It would be very helpful for the people to see how the situation will gradually improve over the next year, according to the current vaccine status. I think it would be very good for the council and the nation to receive a verbal report from the Minister of Health at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u87	President wants less of it. Again and again, there is no need to thank him for every talk he conducts but to remind him to address the president according to the rules that apply to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u88	Is that against the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u89	A respectable president. I'm going to agree with those who have spoken before. The information presented at today's public defence meeting has changed the situation and here has been a fundamental failure in terms of economic aspects of society and many other factors. The last few weeks have been in the process of reaching the final stage of this, that would be right around the corner. V.E.G. A health minister has published it in the media that vaccination is beyond the corner, either on either side of the year, and this new information has caused quite a stir. We can immediately see that the stock market is beginning to detect changes in this information. Similarly, I would like to ask if information like those mentioned today would not need to come from a minister of his own rather than from the competent authorities directly. But I'm calling for a further discussion on this at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u90	A respectable president. I just wanted to come here and agree with that request. There's not much more to say. I'm sure the senators and I will stop convening tomorrow according to what we had decided. If I have not heard any doubt so far, we still need to be very well informed in the coming years because, as has been done here, it will change all the conditions we have had economicly and also the way people usually live their lives again. I'll take into account what you're worried about. The members of the Central Party and other members of the Council wish that the council be well informed about the situation, and especially what, if anything, we can do at the Council or at the Commission to handle this in the most reasonable way. I assume there's more than one possible stage here. It is very important that members of the Parliament be informed of all of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u91	Mr. President. I wanted to direct two points to the highest. A president in connection with these indications. First of all, a what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear to this point, pointing out that there is currently a financial program and that this will prolong the apparent period of severe disease prevention, which now takes up about 5% of the time covered by financial planning. But there are also budgets for the next year, and this, of course, changes the whole context of that matter. Instead of just looking at the first trimester of the year in terms of intense disease prevention, the year's hip is being watched, at least to the third quarter if it goes well, according to tomorrow's news. The other thing I wanted to mention is that if I had the highest. The president doesn't see the premium to get the highest power. A health minister for special discussions today or reports will be sure to have room at some point tomorrow, for if I know a procedure correctly, then there will be a delay at some point due to document development, so there should truly be room for that discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u92	Mr. President. The news of the day was a great battle, especially for the lives of the people of the land. The government owes attention to professional life. What's the report on? What do we need to discuss? We're here to discuss the negotiations. How did these treaties work? Why did we decide, which appears to be momentous, as it seems today, to follow the European Union in these contracts? We need the answer. Could not leave e.g. two roads at the same time? Vaccination in this country is completely uncertain. The British have begun to vaccinate, the United States has started. We're standing right by. Were we put aside? We need answers to this. We need to talk about this. Despite the end of the council, we must discuss this at the General Assembly, start a discussion on this and get a clear answer. We owe it to the commercial world as well as to the public who has taken on heavy loads. [[The president calls.]] There is no need to describe how the public has stuck to governments in this matter and taken on a heavy load of health control.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u93	President. That is an interesting discussion. Of course, all of us are interested in these matters, and we want things to work out. In view of the many words that have fallen here, it may be nice to remember that Icelanders have agreed on a contract with the European Commission with pharmaceutical manufacturers to receive various vaccines. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to review a detailed report on the Department of Health from this morning on the state of agreements for the Covid-19 vaccine. Many contracts have been made. Why haven't you started here? Yes, we have to wait for the assessment of the European Medicines Agency as I thought everyone who was paying attention. It is said that vaccination should be initiated. Didn't there be a meeting of a hospice doctor this morning that they would start at Christmas? Christmas can be vaccinated about 5,000 people. But, yes, priorities changed because of a foreign raw deficiency. [[The president calls.]] That's bad. I agree that we need to know the answer. Let us try to get into this discussion fairly naturally. It is important, of course, how we speak about the nation, about vaccinations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u94	Mr. President. It's very helpful to get a perspective here. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér and guidance on reading the Health Ministry website and, of course, thanks to him for this. But that is no substitute for what is being called for, which is naturally absolutely necessary, i.e. That the government, as well as the prospective health minister, shall give a full report on this matter and what may be expected. This is absolutely necessary. There is no point in considering that this information was presented at a meeting of public defences and government officials this morning, but it is up to the government to give clear answers in the name of transparency, since this news is certainly not good, Mr. President. The cards must be placed on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u95	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé became a familiar part here as a watchdog of the system. I would like to make a comment to the statement that there has been some abnormal discussion about the more serious situation we now face and how this discussion could be normal. We are faced with one sixth of the vaccines that have been said to be negotiated, and this includes: asked if we are on our own in this or if Europe is all on this boat. Is that abnormal? Got it. paritaprevir The news of the day is not serious enough to be made by the Kolbar son of Óttarsson Proppér to be explained, that the nation is being explained, as well as that of the general government in these matters from the first day? [[The president calls.]] Got it. A senator overcrowding the explanation for this situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u96	A respectable president. There is always a danger when the government councilmen come up here asking for something to be taken as a crab or some nameless thing. I have no reason to count it from the Middle Party ranks, and that's not the case with the people here. However, I would also like to mention specifically that I feel that it is not enough for us to get information websites somewhere or a review of negotiations or something similar. We need to be able to ask questions and find answers to them. Well, that's part of our work. The reason is that even if we get any kind of overview and information, people's understanding of the pandemic and science is very different from that of any kind in human society. But we are here represented by this particular human community, the Republic of Iceland, to ask the local authorities for the general public in order to get to the bottom of things beyond simply getting information. [[The president calls.]] I specifically call for an opportunity to ask the minister and/or the CDC and find answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u97	A respectable president. New reports of vaccinations or some kind of trauma should not surprise anyone. I think it was just foreordained that this would not flow like our rivers, indiscriminate programs for vaccinations. So no surprise is needed, and there must be an understanding of some nudity. But from then on, I believe that it is very necessary for governments to answer the question of how they are going to meet them, what the goal is to be vaccinated, how long do humans envision the tremendous, intense, disease prevention measures that are in force today, and how humans question and misunderstand all of this society of ours here. Therefore I called for yesterday the governor who stands here, that it would be time to discuss these matters before the assembly took a month off. I reiterate my desire, a respectable president, that the Presidency Committee and Health Minister will find no time for this later than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u98	President. I think it's a poem during the discussion when you have a comment to a few words, it's interpreted as opposed to a discussion. There's a twist we shouldn't be allowed to do as seriously as we are considering here, Mr. President, and I urge all of us to speak with a sense of responsibility on this matter and the serious issues under which we are concerned. [[...not done.]] I encourage people to look up from their own bellybuttons and make things personal to the people here and maybe show me the respect of allowing me to speak in such a serious way. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson. In view of the above words, I simply pointed out where the common people and members of the council could consult some of the questions presented here. I believe that we can have conversations with one another, and we can control these matters. But I came up here to show where I could find answers to some of the questions raised here. Councilmen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u99	Mr. President. It is important that we choose in this discussion for that reason, and we have it, that is the basis for trust, that is a basis that works, that is the basis for the prevention of disease. I believe everyone tried to be good and men are a bit careful not to get ahead of themselves. All I can hear is that the request is accepted, and the president will take over well the subject of this discussion, and she has, in fact, brought some of them here with us at the council. It is important to have a clear picture when we enter the celebrations of what the new year will look like because, as we move closer to the herd resistance, the arrangements do not have to be as hard as they are. Then I'd also like to repeat: The alternative measures were not harder than in Sweden, the Wall Street Journal took them together, the economic effects of taking the worse way than in Norway and Denmark, i.e. The land production decreased more in Sweden, and unemployment increased more in Sweden. It's not just that the way we went in Iceland protected people's life and health, it also protected our economy better. We've been careful, we'll keep doing so, and we'll have this speech with the health minister, hopefully tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u100	Mr. President. Now I ask you directly: Do you wisely respond to the comments of those who, in my opinion, call for a response from the highest? President? Tell him he's the boss. The president himself doesn't have the authority to rule over any thing, do you remember to bring this message to the one whom you think it is? It is very important that we get answers to this, and I draw the highest attention. The president of Iceland appears to be different, for example. to other countries in this way. There must be some reason. On the contrary, in other countries that are among us with regard to vaccine delivery, this problem has not occurred. Everything seems to be on schedule, so, Mr. President, I challenge you to act.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u101	The president will respond in a way that will put these messages in the right hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u102	Mr. President. I hope to the highest. The president will enjoy my speech here today in view of the fact that there's only two of us in the audience -- no, there's one of us here. I know it's the highest. The president is a huge fan of my conversations, especially when it comes to financial matters and may know the highest degree. The President something about the tone I'm going to hit here. We are studying a five - year financial program, and unlike financial laws, it is the future view of the government shown in this document. Here we see the cards, here we see where the government is headed, hold it in power. That's why this is a very interesting document, and I hope people learn about it, whether it's voters, media, or others, because things don't get bigger than this. This piece contains 5,000 billion jars. Therefore, we should take a very good discussion, especially in the community, of what are the sources of the counsel and what is not. We've heard the clichés about unprecedented times we're living in. Of course, unprecedented times call for unprecedented solutions. Of these, most of the financial agenda is lacking. The plan could be brighter than here. I realize that we have a very difficult time in the economy, so it is important that we have governments that take the situation very seriously and even do too much more than little. It's not just some traditional government stand-by-offs and always wanting more and more. We really need to deal with this crisis, which is not an ordinary crisis, it's the deepest crisis we've had in 100 years. To call for further action, despite the actions that have been carried out, is in perfect harmony with the advice we receive from our experts. OECD has been calling for it. The World Cash Fund has called for that. The World Bank has called for this. We need to respond with a historically significant intervention, so to speak, when it comes to the terms of the money market in order to succeed. I know, of course, that here is headed for a very high angle. He has to pay, of course, and we do it over a long time, and we should do it over a long period of time. We should even take more time to pay the angle down than this is shown, for another will be painful cuts, maintenance measures, or what we would like to call it, after just two years. It is perfectly normal, Mr. President, to take a long time to pay off expenses for so much grief. Note, the shock in Iceland is more than that in many other nations because we were so dependent on tourism. Travel service was the largest industry in the country. A greater share of land production can be attributed to tourism than the fishing road and large industry combined. As many as 30,000 were involved in tourism. That article almost wiped out. Of course, we hope that she will accept as soon as a vaccine arrives, but the industry is still in great trouble. All of this affects all other numbers. We need to finance our consumption, but in order to do so, we need to invest in ourselves. We need even. investing in the government. We need to strengthen a private person. These are not two opposing poles, as they sometimes say. We're supposed to do both. We're supposed to increase the number of jobs in the government and the private sector. No one's calling for official elevation. I think the private sector is much bigger than the public. But we've seen that the infrastructure, the public infrastructure, has been in trouble and even was in trouble for Covid. Remember this discussion in January before coming to your home for Covid. Hospital staff said the emergency room was in emergency care. It's not my word. It's words from the staff of the Land Hospital and it was for Covid. We have figures on how much police officers have dropped, we see that people are in the teachers' class, that there is a high demand for psychologists, social workers, etc. This is sound action that strengthens our ministry to ourselves. I've held this speech hundreds of times and I'm trying to sharpen my colleagues'efforts to invest in society. I'm not doing that at the expense of the private sector, as I think some of my colleagues in the Independence Party talk about. These are not Polish contrasts, the private sector needs the public and the vice versa. I think it's so obvious and we have to do both better, as someone said. The financial agenda is too small to be done in employment and investments. I'm only coming in after how weak it is. When people talk about this great exchange of government funds, over 300 billion, that does not mean that they are putting 300 billion in the other. The balance of state funds comes in for two reasons. The income has been reduced and the costs have gone up, just so I'll draw it out clearly. The groups that rely on public service or payment are too limited whether they are elderly, desperate, patients, students, unemployed, or poor people. They're not small groups. These are large groups that barely make ends meet. These are groups that we in this hall have decided to live at 2 60,000 bucks. after taxation per month. The amount of money that no one in this room trusts to live on. We live in one of the most expensive countries in the world and must be able to do better with these groups. If we feel that we do not have the money to do so, we need to earn it. We took a little touch here yesterday at the Senate Hall to draw out the social property problem. He's great. The richest 5% of the Icelanders own 40% of all the clean possessions of society. And the richest 5% owns over 2,000 billion in pure property. 2,000 billion are like two layers of money. Only since 2010 has this group improved their ownership status by 1,000 billion, one of the budgets. Of course, it is a group that can contribute more, and it is through the tax system. These are the so - called wide beds. The money doesn't grow on trees, as some right men think. They make it with the people and companies. If we can't finance social security, if we can't guarantee that disability does not just mean poverty or that getting older does not mean poverty or that we can't raise 6,000 children from poverty, then we need to make money with a more reasonable tax system. That's what politics is all about, about taxes, as dull as it sounds. Tax is the price we pay for civilized society, to be said as mild, and that's the talk we're supposed to take. How do we finance our system? If we want to increase the number of nurses or police officers, we need to finance it. I'm afraid to say that I'm prepared to finance it with taxes to the group that has the means to meet it. I'm not preaching fiscal increases in the middle of a crisis. I'm just saying, it's a basic discussion that we need to take and keep on going, i.e. how we're going to finance the system. And if our systems don't make any money, we need to make money. Of course, we need to make valuables, we need to grow out of the crisis, we need more wands, and we need more jobs. In Iceland, because of this crisis, the number of jobs has decreased dramatically. We see that 20,000 people are out of work. That's a huge number. Yet, the investment campaign, called literally, is for the next year, i.e. Government investment and building efforts, only 1% of national production. No one's driven that number. For 100 years, 1% of the land's production is having an investment campaign to meet the deepest crisis. That won't do, Mr. President. That doesn't mean tip my head over and over again. It's certainly great, but it's an investment of 30 billion, which is 1%, Mr. President. We need to make some work. We need to contribute to investment ability, and we need to turn around, especially to private partners. To do so, they need support. Now the government needs private support. New creation, we all use that word in this room over and over again. We all like innovation, sounds good. We have a special contact minister of innovation. But what's the situation in innovation? I know that something has been added to innovation. I'm not taking anything that's well done from the government. I will still criticize what goes wrong, and I literally try to sharpen the government for fine works. We see the innovation, evolution - now I'm in the financial program - but what is it? Here's an amazingly interesting table on a 35 - topic field of government. In it, we see so clearly where we're headed. I'm sure everyone will be surprised to learn that contributions to innovation will be reduced by 30% in the next five years. Is this in harmony with what people hear from the minister? These facts are irrefutable. The production and research of innovation are reduced by 2021/2025. I know that the year 2021 has only been improved. I'm not playing with numbers. Why don't we keep this? Why is innovation reduced when we should be building it, not just next year, but the following years? These aren't the big numbers in the context. We have 1,000 billion. New creations in general receive 29 billion. It's 5 billion to finance technology, a key fund in innovation. Maybe you've become so blind to numbers, I realize that, Mr. President, but we can afford to put 5 billion in a Technical Development Fund to make it count. Enterprises and people apply for funding in the Technical Development Fund, but only 8% of the projects going to the New World Fund were funded last summer. Why don't we treasure our financial resources? He makes money. Some things may not work, wands, and innovations, but something will work, something will grow, and they will make taxes and jobs against them. That's what the game's made for. It's a classic. This is going to a private party, Mr. President. It doesn't run to the government. This goes into the fund that strengthens a stable project. Yet, our proposal, from the United States and other groups, is that the total financial resources of technology are repeatedly dropped, so that I take it as an example. Thus, the reduction to innovation and research over the next five years is bleak. I'm sure it's not consistent with all the press conferences held by government ministers. It's always been said that we're so productive in innovation. But we just don't have a lot of work to do in innovation. At least we can. Work harder, especially at this time. I'd like to mention another group of subjects that also affect the future, the environment, and the climate. Each political group now speaks with a profound inner feeling about that group. This is a case of the future. We see that governments in all countries are taking these matters far more seriously than before. We received the budget in October. Many journalists have also been held at the government's meeting to update climate targets, environmental injections, and now the last one of the prime ministers writes an article to increase the goal of reducing climate pollution. That's good. I agree with that. Let's be ambitious about climates, we'll be on the lead. We are still following the European Union and Dani and other countries in this respect, but well. But in spite of all the beautiful words and large statements in the environment and climate, what do the figures say, Mr. President? On one occasion, in politics they were told the mongeon, by the permission of a president, followed the money. That's exactly what I've done. I've been following the money, taking this lovely pill that I've got right next to here, and I see exactly what's changed in the autumn since this plan was submitted and until now it's time for the environment, based on all the reports of green construction, green revolution, effort on this, and everything that turns into green and quality. The change, notice, over the fall, from October to December date, in the environment for the next year is 0.3%. The increase is - I'm not talking about 0.3% of domestic product - 83 million for the next year in the environment. Isn't this some kind of joke? And do you know what I suspect this 80 million is going to be? I think it's 80 million that comes to the mementos because it was placed under the environment. It's a little bigger, but what's the increase? Before the year 2022, the increase in the environment is 1.2%. The increase by 2023 is 1.8%, the increase by 2024 is 2.5%, followed by an increase during the last 3.5%. Do these people really feel that they are ambitious about the environment? Environment costs money. Words are cheap. It's very cheap to say: Yes, we're going to be green. What do the numbers tell us? They say we're not green. We're still grey, Mr. President. If I take all of this together, which takes place in the environment of 2021 and the environment of 2025, then the increase is 1.9 billion. Is that a lot or a little? It's a slight rise. That's 0.1% of land production. Over the next five years, the increase in environment is 0.1% of land production, or less, considerably less. That doesn't show a green revolution, Mr. President. It just shows something completely different. If the board was being updated now, people updated the financial program, they've said they'd do it later. That's a very embarrassing argument, since this financial program has just been updated. Okay, if they do it later, I'll celebrate. But why is that not now? We're updating a lot of other lawsuits. I don't intend to choke people in numbers, but if we look at the entire environment on the budget, it's less than 1% of the country's production. There's a lot of 1% everywhere, 1% of the land production goes into the environment. If I take another measure, i.e. The budget, the economy is 3,000 billion, the budget is 1,000 billion, if we take a share of the environment, just everybody, of the budget, is 3%. I don't think that's enough. I know it's been growing. This has been growing slowly in all countries. Environmental issues did not exist nearly a few years ago. 97% of the budget goes to something else. I want to flaunt it. We see that donations for innovation, such a key legal category for the future, fall by 30% in five years. Environmental issues are increasing 7.7%. Consider other topics. It's a lovely tablet, isn't it? Here's a language field called nursing and rehabilitation services. Let's see what's going on. We're always talking about the future, we're talking about the future vision of this government if it stays in power, but that topic field is in place. I find this interesting because we only hear that the nation is growing old, and the resources are often becoming expensive. But it is virtually the same number that goes to nursing in 2021 and 2025. There's even a decrease I don't understand, but there's a slight decrease. Is this not also quite contrary to what we have been hearing about the high priority structure of nursing homes? I would like to mention another group of problems, transportation, which are of great interest to many in this hall. How is the trend there? There's a 30% reduction in five years despite a great need. I find another group of subjects interesting, culture, art, sports, and youth. This is not the largest mail we're dealing with here. But what's going on there? This is the 18th topic field. What is the development there? There's so much politics in this table. The reduction is 7%, funding for culture, art, sports and youth are being reduced. The reason I flaunt this and talk about this is because I really think there's a big surprise for people. Even members of Congress are surprised at what this is all about. So I'm saying it's certainly an increase in some litigators and not all the lawsuits. I'm just taking those classes for where donations should be made in particular. New births should rise, culture should rise, nursing should rise. We see that high school has been receiving some contributions now because of Covid, which is good and blessed, but they are getting the same number of donations for the next five years. I don't know how much offense that is. House - to - house support is a field of topic, a 14% reduction. In the next five years, public health and welfare management budgets decrease by less than 20%. Now I've mentioned eight lawsuits that have a shrink, often a significant decrease, or stand in place, or get at least not the rise the Ministers may speak about. Of course, there will be other developments. People can only look at it. What I point to is that the development of donations for key classes is extremely peculiar. It's just very interesting to see how this is developing, because the budget is a key part of everything we're talking about here. Then you will find the phrase in the schedule. I've said that before, maybe I'm always giving the same talk, but okay. Why do hospitals and schools have special care? According to this, there is a cumulative decline in the State's contribution of 17 billion over the period. I may be able to understand that men like to have some conservative requirements to achieve some economy, better use and so on, good and good, men can have that opinion. But I don't understand, Mr. President, why next year and the next two years, this special provision is held to health institutions, aging institutions, and schools. There is no way to say that endurance is a requirement. There's not a responsort at all institutions, e.g. is not next year at courts. What is basically more peculiar, Mr. President, is a two - year - long retreat to a hospital. Should it not have been the other way around, letting go of today's preservation requirement, and ensuing it after two years when it works out better, if you like this kind of flat maintenance procedure? On a financial committee, we severely criticized that the National Hospital should work out its palace, 4 billion dollars, which must be worked out by means of financial management and impaired service. It was really nice what I saw in the news this morning that it's been decided -- I'm just going to say after our hard struggle in the United States and others - that the National Hospital doesn't have to work up that corner. That's good news. I think the Landsspians have plenty of work to do, even though they don't have to make up some flammable slope and cut down services. That's good. I think this shows that the government situation can sometimes do something good by screaming up and calling for better decisions. Another thing I'm going to draw out is surgery, or a practical procedure, or as it's called here, after two years, a requisite measures. It may be a little systematic term for cuts, maintenance, or tax increases. This is something that's critical, for it doesn't have to happen in two years. It happens in two years if we choose these classes and have the same government over us, but it doesn't have to happen if people are ready to choose something else next, groups that may be willing to drag them down that corner any longer. It matters. Mr. President. In this regard, I'd like to mention one thing because I've seen the independence party advertising that they've done so well in paying off debt, and that's why they're in such a good deal to deal with the consequences of Covid. I just want to recall one thing because I know the story very well: Yes, government debt had been paid off, good business. Why, though, did this happen, and how did it become a major part of it? What happened was that we received so - called stability donations from the bank collapse, which were the biggest mail that went into subsidies. Why did we receive stable donations from foreign demands? That was because we placed foreign demands on so - called little emergency law, now I've come to a small story explanation. In March 2009, other emergency laws were set up, I remember, I was at the council, enabling foreign demands to be stuck here in the seas. Then they were ready to leave their goats by paying us stable donations, and they went into subsidies. And I'm going to remember that when it comes to making that decision in this room, you know what group voted against the bank crash? It was the Independence Party. I'm not kidding. He voted against putting foreign demands on the seas that other demands were placed upon them. In that vote, the group of forwardees sat by. This is important, and the independent party may not boast about it in his advertisements when he is boasting about having paid off debt so fast, so that we are in such a good deal that we can deal with Covid. It's just a little history review of how this came about. I can absolutely commend the Independence Party for what he deserves, but there's something very important involved. It is only very interesting to consider what happened in 2009 or 2010 when the little emergency law was set and he voted against it, for it was so obvious that, of course, we were to place the foreign demands under the seas as well. It created us with an agreement on the stability proposals that came to pass a few years later. Mr. President. Then, in two years, there will be debridement or extenuating measures. I'm worried about what groups are going to get hit on. Of course, it is those groups who rely on public service. There are poor people, poor people, older citizens, students, etc., even patients. These are the groups who rely on the public, on the welfare system. We need to protect them. We don't need to protect our capital owners, they take care of themselves, they take care of themselves so well that we see over and over again the decisions that are made here to serve them specifically. Yesterday, it was decided to lower the capital tax with an increase in the pay market. I mentioned earlier that 1% of the richest Icelanders earn 35% of all capital gains. If we grow this, we make it 5% of the richest Icelanders, they earn 50% of the capital income, so all the decreases in capital tax will benefit that group. Then came the strangest and strange tax reductions this spring. At that time, the government in particular dropped credits for large ships. I can totally support tax losses, such as the insurance bill, and we have even proposed a cut-off of insurance. The Independence Party voted against her. The Independence Party cannot yell at us who are on the left and say that we just want to raise our taxes. We want to raise some taxes, but we want to lower others. Why is it that independence can always get away with playing the argument that they are the only pack of taxes? He's just not. When it comes to that subject, being open - minded is complete. The party reduces the taxes on the best. The fishing fee is still under discussion. I'm not gonna spend the few seconds left in talking about the fishing policy for the hundredth time. I'd like to draw this out, and it's a good thing for people to see the difference between these categories, the Independence Party and the United States, and then the advance and the left green. Of course, there is a difference between us. We are not the same, and we think the solutions are different, and we try to handle the situation. Left, right, forward and backward, these are living terms. It's perfectly normal for us to take a step. Of course I know every soul in this room wants Iceland well. Of course we do. I've told you before, we are a small nation. Even today, we are few people born as few in the world as we live in Iceland. Then the population of Iceland is born tomorrow, and so on. We need to get out of these shooting warfares and debate books that all of us are guilty of, I'm sure, including, especially in times of emergency, because we are in a state of emergency. I know that some in this condition have it even better than before, but very many people have it really bad, especially the unemployed, in an environment where almost no work is appropriate. So it is odd that we cannot get together to increase unemployment rates, as we have repeatedly suggested, or allow changes in unemployment insurance to reach people who become unemployed in February, as well as worse. paritaprevir For example, a single sister named Oddný Harðardóttir was late tired to point out. These are all the matters that we could have gotten together to make a community where no one is left, a society where we make a thousand wands grow, a society where government money is used in a handsome way to rural society, groups of innovations and environments, where we'll work together on green construction, have some plan, the economy, how to get out of it, not just wait for the tourist to come back to Iceland. [[The president calls.]] We need to be more ambitious in this regard, be a bit of an interest, and be more of a journey together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u103	For word's sake. At the beginning of the talk, a senator would like to make such a special point by the president. A senator is highly regarded by a president in spite of his reckless contribution to community media.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u104	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Hv. A senator went over a number of topics and put things in a certain context that I'm not going to go through straight. It's a matter of context, and I agree. A senator in that respect. You're right, we're breaking a financial program. Then we need to keep in mind what this financial program is doing. In the face of difficult economic circumstances, we are primarily confused, trying to shape the scope of what we will see in the coming years, to 2025. Then, when setting things in context, we need to look at what has been done during this ideal period when we consider a unique subject field. Alternatively, we find no picture of what evolution is at the top of the topic areas. Let's start with the innovation. New births have been increased by 74% in this rate of rate, which must be virtually unprecedented in such a short time. Hv. A senator said that there was not enough work to be done, and we may well be able to debate about when it is enough. But we're also working on a budget bill. Now we just entered the budget of a 3 billion dollars. expenses from measures that we set here at our earlier council in spring to raise our pay for research and development and innovation and raise the roof. [[The president calls.]] That's 3 billion just now. It tells us that these actions are working, and they're coming in on a full trip, 3 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u105	Mr. President. I've just, in the light of President's words, very much fun doing the best. A president of community media, to be seen here. What I want to say about innovation is: Yes, this has been added to innovation in recent years. I welcome the 2.9 billion who are going to reimburse me for their evolutionary and research costs. I think it was one of our proposals at the beginning of the season. All right. But what I was doing in my speech was looking to the future. It's like that, and I see why. The senator has this lovely table in front of him, that the trend is down, that's what I'm criticizing, in the innovation of the whole category. Hv. A senator sees it as low as 30%. That's what I'm criticizing. I don't understand, because these aren't the biggest numbers, that these innovations are getting hit hard or just cutting down in 2023, 2024, and 2025. That's what I'm criticizing. In particular, I criticized us for the lack of money in technical development funds. Because of what? A senator mentioned that a reimbursement program on research grant had worked then, too, the Technological Development Fund has worked. It's 5 billion in savings, according to the fund itself. Why don't we just get together and set 5 billion tomorrow? We can do that. The treasure doesn't go down, it's already in the middle of nowhere so much that it can't see the impact on water, but the 5 billion could be 50 in a few years. Let's bet on innovation, bet on the movie sector. I'm about to mention it when I'm facing what. A senator. Why don't you take such a step? Investor ourselves. Sometimes money has to be spent to create money, and a new birth is an example. I'm not trying to downplay what's been done. I'm pointing out better off. The tablet is inexorable when it comes to innovation. It's downhill. It is not the people's feeling outside if they listen to the declarations of the minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. For a moment, I felt as if I were inside some social conversation. But now I'm in the speaker's chair, and I'm starting to say, "What?" Ólafur Ágústsson Álf Álfurtsson and try to keep me from that conversation. Yeah, let's bet on the innovation. We're betting on the innovation. What I'm trying to say here, because of it. A senator put things in perspective, so when we expand into a language field, such as innovation, money goes into it permanently. It has reached 10 billion, mostly now between 2019 and 2021. Then it takes a little distance because we are in a fight. It will be 6 billion permanent inside the system. It is very important that we give them the right message. Let's take another environmental issue. There were 16 billion donations when we arrived during that terms. There are 8 billion living in the environment, more than 24 billion, and they will be 26 billion in 2025. It is 10 billion a year to go to the environment permanently because we are a green government and we are doing this class. It's just another context, but that's the right context. We need to evaluate financial programs, as it is presented in the context of what we are doing. When we deposit money, they come in permanently. Whatever it is. A senator is taking what is designed to reduce, which is a single switch between the Covid actions - and we hope to be a monotonous because it is intended for, to get us out of this department - and then the investment campaign. Once we've finished building the house, it's all over. That's when it falls out. It's the joints that are down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u107	Mr. President. Yeah, that's good. At least we're talking about the same numbers now that we're talking about the same tablet. I was perhaps hoping that these measures in environmental and innovation would not be sole measures. Some of them are. What I'm calling in is that these two cases have handsome funds. I don't think the change over the next five years is consistent with the feeling the government is creating, when the innovation has a 30% reduction between the opening year and the end year, and the increase in environmental issues is extremely small between the years. It may well be. A senator and his party feel contented with environmental and innovation. I don't think so. We are told that there is more to be done here. These two groups are a little special, and they are not particularly large at first. Each is about 1% of domestic product and 3% of the budget. So we may need to be more handsome in this regard, especially in Covid's time, especially during climate change. We can see that the environment is moving around. We are investing in green jobs and have a number of financial incentives to produce green jobs. You just need to be more visible in this financial program. Now I'm trying to be fiercely gentle because I know what to do. A senator can't answer me again. This table, however, just shows evolution, and I want them to express concern about evolution. I think we're gonna do what. A senator and the forwarding party and the United States can return the pies to the next government in doing even more well in these key issues so that the green color of the forwarding party will be further brought forward in the next government. I know why. A senator cares about both of these classes, and if he gets a financial minister next to him, I know he'll do a hell of a lot better than the current financial minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u108	President. Each year to the next five years, financial plans are about government policy, how it affects government resources. How does government policy affect the situation in which we are in each situation? If governments were not to interfere with anything, if society, tax, and everything were not the same, how would the scene develop? How would we be in five years? It is the first question that we answer with a financial plan, which we should answer about financial planning, but it is not done here, rather than there are so many other matters. But because here is the government, and these governments are going to do this, and this happens, and in five years, we'll have something else completely different. Neither are they explained in this financial program as well as so many other factors. This budget is not a government policy, it consists of random measures here and where, certainly, not all classes called for the last general election, such as additional health benefits, transport, etc. But this is all a process from here and from there, showing no overall policy on how society will be different in five years because of government policy. In this financial program, there is no need for the government's policies from A to O. This is not done, and because it is not done, it is a guess that we will be successful there. Maybe it's a good guess or an informed guess, fine, great. However, this does not explain why one operation is better than the one chosen. We won't be allowed to do anything about it. We will not be allowed to see in financial programs if they are to be built, for example. One way or another, there are many different ways to go, as are the case with the Dizziness Course, where we have many different options to choose from. But we don't get that in a financial program. That's what we'll get about the city line. Then we'll have the option for trolley systems, fast-car systems, more or less for the emphasis on public transportation, etc. Many options taken based on individual influences and the best option. There is no such thing in this financial program, no such thing as government policy, but just up to the ceiling, guess how the wind turns, and decide to follow it. It's a very unprofessional procedure. It is a business that does not obey official financial laws. We are in this state of uncertainty and have been since before the date when financial plans were due, in April of this year. The government did not trust to put forward its own policies at that time, asking to postpone putting it into practice, which I feel is crazy from the beginning, for when we are in an uncertain state, it should be the first obligation of the government to eliminate uncertainty. And how do governments do this? By putting a policy out of the uncertainty situation. If we look at historical evidence on how an epidemic can develop, the present situation is a very obvious scene, a possible pattern of course, but very obvious. There is a cow, there is another cow, and according to current information, the third cow is not likely to come. I don't count the summer, it was the same as no cow, it's not a wave of my math sense. So we're done with the first cow, and one of the cows is running out. And with what we hear today, it is not likely that the third cow will come, considering that the vaccine will arrive late and later. We have a pathologist who tells us that disease prevention measures are expected to be at least for another six months, until about the middle of the next year, at least It's the first 10% of the life span of this financial programme, continued disease prevention procedures. What is the response? I see no response except the ones that appeared to us when financial programs were delayed. We will respond as needed. It's not a policy, it's an emergency reaction. It is also the obligation of governments, definitely, to respond to dire situations, absolutely. I agree, and the council has worked very well, that I believe, by the government, and help with emergency procedures. But they don't have a course. And that's what we're dealing with here. Government policies are to be considered according to law, by an organized, very normal organization. Based on the predictable state, what will the government do in relation to the present situation? With best guesses, of course. We are not good at predicting the future. How will we have our community in five years different from what it is today, different from what it would be without government, and from the present situation in which we are? Nothing like that is in this program but the best guess and hope that there will be a fight, and when the code finally gets out of hand, things will start out without the government doing anything except taking care of these financings to keep the businesses alive, so that they can just start over again like nothing has been done. There's nothing too likely to be successful. It could happen. It certainly does, but it should be on guard. There is no evidence in the government's response that the worst is to be expected and prepared for it. Rather, it was immediately expected that this would be a quick code, so it would be soon, and 3 billion would be put into the first money supply for tourists so that they could pile in right away last summer because it would just be ready for them. It wasn't a plan, what if it didn't work out? The worst was not expected at all. Of course, they should expect the best, but they should prepare the worst. But neither was this done. They were simply expected to be the best and prepared for the best. Good luck can't be controlled, far away. However, I talked a lot about it when the first sum came here, about the position that was then present. The first thing I noticed was that if we were to get out of the hole that was forming in front of us, we'd have to focus on innovation, not just because of the situation then, but because it's simply healthy to work. It's healthy for society not to rely on this classic commercial model that there are few big support in the commercial world. They're the ones that cause these fluctuations in the economy. We swinged with the fish, we swinged with the aluminum, we swinged the herb, we swinged with the banks, and now we're swinging with the tourism. The reason for us to grow in variety is that our fluctuations will grow smaller and more stable. That's why when we came up with this situation that we thought we should get into a new creation. That's why the smaller part, led by Pirata and me, dropped to 9 billion in innovation. The government heard this argument, responding to it by doubleing the contribution to innovation, from 1.5 billion to 3 billion. In the autumn, it came on this day that these 9 billion were needed in exactly this way, that was, in any way, the amount that could have been used to accomplish the desired work. It's something. - No, it wasn't that amazing, because we asked, and it was really the amount we got answers to. And in the spirit, in this condition, to do more than less, there was nothing wrong with having at least a means of having access to that possibility. If not all of it could be used, it would be returned to a government fund, nothing serious there. On the other hand, the government's policy was to make the ultimate effort - or, like, the highest. Secretary of finance said, "It's not possible to get all this money into the commercial world so fast." It was just, "Yes, it was possible. " However, the funds were not available, so they did not. If we had offered more money if possible, we could be in a completely different place today and begin to grow well out of the present crisis because innovation takes time. That means that we have lost more than six months of interest in taking root. This appears, for example. Government policy on handling the Newborn Center for Iceland. All the data we have called after show that the government policy, the government's decision to put down Iceland's New Creation Center, was based on nothing but politics at that time. When it was said that the money that went to the New Arts Center in Iceland would be more useful to projects elsewhere or to other sources by taking away the administration and using the administrative funds for a project here and there - when they made that claim, there were no data to support that claim. That means that this claim was a guess. It was not supported with data. Thus, this financial program is through. She's a fortune on budgets here and there. This will result in results, we think, because the criteria, the cost analysis, the improvement - the criteria are inaccurate, the costs are nothing, the benefit analysis is no, no choice analysis, nothing, nothing. Nothing that can be built to have some kind of cognitive discussion about how we handle public resources, public tax dollars, nothing. We are to receive a year's report from a minister in the middle of each year that the Minister presents and explains: I received a budget to work on specific projects, to achieve certain goals. This was accomplished because the funds were well prepared, making good use of the project and toward the scales we should apply. A minister cannot make such a point in his annual reports today, so that is not possible because he lacks support for the General for the costs and benefits of the project. So a minister can always be proud of his success, since hopefully and hopefully we will always be successful in investing. Maybe it doesn't always happen, but at least we hope we're at least where the budgets we agree on the others and these projects provide some positive results. It would be worse if we weren't even in that place. But I can't say because it's all a guess. But I'd like to discuss the form I spoke to you about. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, i.e. to have laws on public finance as they are, that government decisions and policy are based on transparent information, the data on the results of financial authority. It is fundamentally fundamental, absolutely fundamental, that governments support their policies and decisions. In the case of financial rights, in the case of public taxation, that means that when governments recommend measures to reduce, for example, the government's use of taxes. the efflux problem, if explained: Here are options for increased home service, for building more room, to expand some other service somewhere, and so on. That it explains that if we put 500 million people in it. K. in increasing household service, this results, and if we contribute 2 billion to building more nursing homes, it will produce some other results. If we put only 1 billion of the other and 500 million on this and mix different solutions together, then there are other results. It is this possibility analysis that this distribution of funds between these projects will result in better results than if we were to distribute it somehow differently or focus on just one of the factors available. How does this affect us? For example, this is a project that has been obvious for a few years, we have repeatedly spoken about this so - called efflux problem, that when patients finish treatment at the Land Hospital, they are simply trapped there in expensive space, and others are not able to find that it is an appropriate service for them at home or in nurses or the like, which would be less expensive resources. This is the efflux problem. In what ways is he being contended with in a financial program? Not anybody, just literally not anyone. Then what happens at 2 Corinthians 2: 4? ... abundant? Then, a total of 1,350 million will be delivered next year - not exactly. How should these 1,350 million solve the problem? I ask them as a member of the budget board. How Would You Answer? Well, we've got to rent a house, and we're gonna put some of these in home nursing, etc. They don't know, they're just gonna get these 1,350 million, and they're gonna say that they're gonna solve the problem so almost completely. It's the kind of work I complain about over and over again. It can't happen this way. It's just not allowed. I'll even believe that these funds will be successful. However, in order to determine whether any other action would have been more effective to allow us to make a better decision thereafter regarding the use of financial resources, we need to determine in advance how to achieve that goal. It's a plan, she's missing completely here. As we approach the project, it may come out of nowhere, that something can be moved a little between us, e.g. The nursing homes, or home - care facilities, or something like that, in order to be more successful. It is only good and blessed that we learn what we do precisely, that there is a need to shift to things only in order to achieve better results, which are not according to plans. Great, do it. That is why we have a law on public financial matters that allows Ministers a little more space to move money into their lawsuits and causes to get better results than before, since they were very strong on each budget. Today, we have more flexibility to reach the goal. When the project is being completed, a new idea may arise that can be dealt with in this way. But we are faced here at a council meeting to agree to a budget of 1,350 million on a project that will probably solve this problem. We don't exactly know how, but that's just the way it is. It's a work program that the Generals don't want to accept. The general assembly is to ask: " How do you picture all of this? And realize that there are plans. And plans can turn into action, that's just perfectly normal. This shows a learning process that would be published in the annual report by a minister: We started with this, and then we learned that the criteria were a little different from what we expected. Then we added more complications, something like that, and we reacted and did this a little differently. It's just great. That's great. At that time, governments are explaining to us and for the future how we can improve the development of plans. If we don't even start with these plans, we'll never get into the situation of building General Assembly Decisions on Public Resources, projections on projection, field-of-view analysis. Then we won't be successful. Like I said to what? paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson: It's politics 101, because without this information, we're just guessing. This information even disappears because everyone will see the best solution. Then there is no need for a political argument about ideologies to go back and forth about what options to choose because it is obvious. That's what politics is all about, about form. We are to get rid of the guess, for it is a waste in the whole sense of that word. I would like to finish my speech by coming in on a discussion that I have been on a budget, on the salary of the elected members of Congress. In 2018, a law change was made in which a board of dress was taken away after a very ostentatious process in which a decision was made to change the wages of elected senators the day after the 2016 election. We asked about information and data, how can we support that rise? We never got anything like that, despite the fact that evidence should be available. We asked about them in the name of an information song, since this is a administrative bath that was supposed to be there to keep everything transparent and accessible. But there was no such thing, which is like everything else here. Apparently, they've been guessing. Perhaps it was an informed, good guess, but it was not fully accurate and not based on evidence. Today, the pay of councilmen, senators, and ministers is automatically updated every year on July 1. First, when the law was changed, it happened just before July 1 so that the decision to raise the salary was postponed to January 1, 2019, I think it was, no, it was 2020. At least, it's a year apart. This terms have passed so fast. The pay was to be raised on January 1, 2020, that is correct. It's been forgotten to do so at Business, something remarkable. That happened about three months later. A retrospective update on the pay of the elected representatives was then updated by 6.3%, which is very interesting because the epidemic was about to start and the reimbursed increase was made, but the increase in pay was due now on July 1 was delayed until now during the 2020/2021 season. All right, good-bye. We are still in the code, and the increase in pay that would be on July 1, 2020, will be done this year. Then I'll ask you, what's the raise? Because I don't see her in the sheep or the sheepies, not what they expect. It took a long time to get an answer that was supposed to be available right from around the middle of the year that the pay rate for elected agents would rise by 3.6% at this time of the year, which is very interesting to percent for many reasons. The overall pay card increased by 3.4% during 2019, with this increase in salary. The futures of social security for 2020 increased by 3.5%. All right. Social security pay increased by 3.5% but pay by 3.4% of the elected representatives. Good-bye. The general pay sheet for 2019 was 4.9%, but the pay sheet based on Congress and Minister's pay is clearly paid to the employees of the state, but not to everyone. It shows that, on average, the salary of the state's workers has increased by 3.4%, which could be quite normal for biographies where there were costs, etc. How transparent and accessible are the data? Nothing dramatic, but this morning there was a memo coming up to the budget board where there's something about these calculations, and it's really interesting to think about them. But they also say that the increase expected next year, July 1, 2001, will be in the range of 5.5%•7.4% of the payment, or as expected in the budget for 2021, it should be 6.3% again as it was during the last year, which is still very interesting, since it is before 2020. As follows: The development in 2020 was 6.3% among the employees of the State. I see that a social security plan is 3.6% for 2021, which makes me scratch my head a little bit. If the development of social security for 2020 is up to a 3.5% rise compared to the salary development of government workers, senators and Ministers, while 6.3% for 2020, it still points to the problem in which we are involved, as well as the problem of an endless rise and decline in the salary of the senators and ministers. Finally, I have a little idea that might be interesting to wonder about this salary, that it actually only increases once during the season: At election day, the salary of an elected representative will be increased. That would probably be 101⁄215% over that period. But between the election days, it's a salary of elected agents and senators, it's not being messing with this, it's not a problem, it's just separate from the politicians in the season. I think that might be a bit of an interesting development, since the work is not dependent on the necessary remuneration during the season. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Even if it does not, the pay is high enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u109	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir For example, consider the case of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I'm going to start with the focus of the policy process of public finance, and I'm going to tell us to follow it, and this is one of the things that are part of a national budget. It is the policy, the policy of the government, and then it is further applied to the budget. This is the process we're going through. Hv. A senator used a lot of guess, gigsk, and I come up here to deny it. He mixes this with what he talks about cost estimates and optional analyses. This doesn't necessarily have to mix. Now I'm going to explain. Government policy is clear, Covid or not. But it just so happens that it's Covid, and it really marks the whole financial process we're going through this year. Why are we doing this on such a narrow timeline? Yes, because it's Covid. Why are we focused on 2021? Because the policy is to get us out of this situation. Get the people through this. That's clear policy in my mind, huh? Senator. So I refuse that it's just gisk. Our policy is very clear. We're sticking to our previous plans, and it's measured in dollars, 1000 billion in a drop of $300 billion. [[The president calls.]] It's a policy and it's measured in crowns.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u110	President. The first plan, yes, this is based on our previous plans, the budget of our last year, that we finished it and did the work we did then, and it cost a lot of money. One might ask: What, though, were the costs of this project as a legal institution or agency? And the answer is, "I don't know, I don't know. But the other project? All we know is how much they all cost together. That's what I'm talking about. A senator, is gisk. When we're putting the law and getting the cost of a job that we're about to post, the responsibility for citizens' rights and public service, which we're making decisions that if we're making the decision to give these rights to us, it's the expense of how much these rights cost, how much that service costs, that you can't ask afterwards when it's done what this really cost, that the answer is: I don't know - that means we're guessing. That means that the financier we see reflected in long waiting lists, in the flow problem, and all of it. The resources we put in here don't seem to be solving the problems. They do not appear to have requirements for service based on the waiting list. For some reason, we used the last time we made it through the year, and we were in the overall context, but we weren't caught up enough. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We were not efficient enough to be quick to reason on each project. It's gisk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u111	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answers. In the second answer, there's an afterlife counter, and I'm totally turning down the gig. The number two on government policy is specific Covid actions. Is it gisk? No. There's quite a small increase in budgets from budget to bill. We're talking about 180 billion, and there's no more gig than I remember. There are 120 billion of these specific Covid actions, specific. That is a goal in government policy. Third, allowing the automatic balances, the reformers to function, and we have even added to that. We have reduced taxes, so the effects are even greater, and we have an extended income - related period of unemployment, and we have also improved the quality of our recovery. The project will then include more parts reading the implementation of these targets, so it's not gisk. [[The president calls.]] Hv. paritaprevir For example, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, the manager of the greater part, went well over on page 3. [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. A senator to read it well. [[The president calls.]] Then he sees the cycle of policy cycles, as we are granted by the public financial law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u112	President. I'm talking about guessing an effect. I'm not doubting it when people get unemployment improvements and a penance grant, etc. - Yes, that's exactly what I'm saying. I don't think they're gonna get any of the effects. We're going to take a walk. We're gonna put so much money into it. The result? A lot, I hope. That's the breeze I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u113	Can I have the third answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u114	That's the guess I'm talking about. I don't understand why it doesn't make sense. Could we achieve the same or better results for less money? This is a basic question that is not answered. That's why I say it's gisk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u115	I don't have a third answer, but I can see why. A senator is on the rosary later, and he is likely to be able to share his views.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u116	V.E.G. President. I'm just gonna put myself in the shoes of a voter, Pirata, who has listened to the Porta representative give a 30-minute talk on a financial program. Then the voter must think: What is the policy of this class that I was choosing when discussing a financial plan, this big political emphasis? It was a 30-minute discussion of formalities, technical issues. It was one small material thing that could be perceived as a course. It was already a night. A senator thanked the Pirates for putting so much emphasis on innovation. Other than that, I am no closer to the voter of Pirata for what they stand for. What do they see in their mind? What's their policy in all the big business, business, etc.? There's another thing I want to ask you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. He mentioned the New Creation Center, a administrative bath that cost at least 700 million. K. Every year, up to a billion. The fact that she's laid down, and the money that's going to cost her to go directly on a innovation project doesn't tell him anything because there's no evidence to it. We know what expenses will be saved if we put down an institution. And if we put it directly on a project, we don't need any data on it. It's just in front of you. A senator, unless we create some other system and another agency around the money we're about to install in innovation. Of course, that is not the thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u117	President. Thank you. A senator for referring to the very new creation, since there were some magical projects there. It is being aimed at bringing down the New Creation Center and innovation projects that were moving on to a variety of other institutions, which in some magical way require nothing to move to them in administrative operations. The remainder is some 200 million who enter the treasure, reminding me that they were, so something like it. It may then be the administrative cost of running a New Creation Center, not the innovations that were worked inside it. That's exactly where I find the magic remarkable, that a project that costs some administrative business is moved to another administrative agency without expecting to be some additional cost from that administrative view. I just think that's a great spell. Can't we do all of this, just put down all our institutions, move some other institutions, who don't use administrative costs to run those exact jobs? It's just magic, it's great. Form, ow. A senator, by the opinion of a financial body, is extremely important, and especially this year's journey. The form begins politics. The result of a professional diagnostic process is something we politicians use to base our decisions on. In case of a moment. A senator wants to make decisions without a professional diagnostic procedure, so he's welcome, but it's not politics that I want. Perhaps when we get such a formal diagnostic process to work on it, it becomes more clear which political piranca will rather than the first political bitch we want to be a professional diagnostic procedure, a cost assessment, a benefit assessment, a choice analysis, and the like to make decisions that can be reasoned with people for them to be good instead of just guesses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u118	V.E.G. President. You don't have to tell an old lawyer that the form doesn't matter. Form is important. We can agree on that. But as a voter, I'm not choosing any political agent of mine to handle it. The dresser is not choosing an accountant, he is choosing someone who has a political policy, in big cases. Let us now be following up with some formality, but it will not take 29 minutes for 30 minutes. Regarding the New Creation Center, there were 70 employees there, if I recall correctly. You can expect 10 million people to be paid each year. [[Up front.]] That's 700 million dollars in pay. If we put that money directly on a particular project - certainly, some pressures may be on employees elsewhere, but surely there is little evidence that we need to see the savings and management of it and better use of money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u119	President. Pirate votes for them to do things right, number one, two and three, to do things right. They don't vote Pirata to make pedestrian decisions, such as putting some judges in the National Court past professional opinion, not to put reports into a drawer just before election. People are choosing to do things right. [[Up front.]] And the position of the form is so serious that it doesn't just need a half hour talk for it. I also gave a talk on the budget that was an hour, and to a large extent, I discussed the form as well because it is still broken, that is still defective. And the budgets offered at the Council are based on a guess that they'll do it. Building Generalis's work during such preparations is only a bad decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u120	Mr. President. It was interesting to hear those answers. It wasn't much news in the speech by reason. A senator I thought, but now I'm a man of judgment. You see, I was as close as I was to the politics of Pirata, except what was said in the counter to the fact that those who would name Pirata were choosing the formality list of public accountants, even as well as some guardians of a set form. Because of what? A senator, a hardworking member of the budget board, makes clear on the Committee's projects, I would like to ask him in a direct way about the core financial programmes, which are numbered from one to five, and whether he would not just want to express himself on the subject; scope for success in terms of money, emphasis on innovation, and infrastructure, putting light off people and businesses, interest and employment before investment, a debt stop during the period, although he would just take one of those points and express himself on the emphasis of the financial program from the Polish romance that I thought was going to. A senator stood by, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u121	A respectable president. In fact, all the talk was about the answer to that question. These are very beautiful words, but there is absolutely nothing to say that our goals will be met, not that what is said to achieve these goals is the best possible solution. There's no explanation that this is the best possible solution. It's not explained that if we do A, we'll have worse results than if we do B and that's why we're going to do B. At least I want to do politics so that I'd rather vote for people who try to do things right and after the book. The four of us are set up to help us understand the mistakes we have made in the past. We've experienced mistakes since mistakes that have cost billions of dollars of money because of a rush in the legal process, out of the legal arrangement that had to be done - yes, let's just drop the big words with it. I mentioned the National Court case earlier, and I can talk about the case in which there is a misinformed article regarding the loss of pension rights due to employment. A respectable president. The basis for a professional job, not only for the government we are expected to supervise, but also for the council, is that we get the information we need in order to make an informed decision. For these five things, it is not available, so all of our decisions are based on only: We think this is going to work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. His answer was made by a senator, but I might have wanted to do so in a later answer. A senator in a direct way: What is his attitude toward raising taxes, wanting to increase taxes, or reducing taxes? What expenses would he want to cut, and where would he want to raise his expenses, and how would he finance them? I can't do all of this with a simpler, respectable president, but this may also be my attempt to bring in some politics other than shapes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u123	A respectable president. The authority tells us that in this situation taxes are being made to a good degree. We need to choose where we will use taxes and how. The government has some good ideas about it and other bad ideas, as it goes and happens. We immediately had suggestions for the first amount of money we needed to pay on innovation. We're in a hurry. We had suggestions on where we could be reducing or raising taxes, such as capital taxes and so on. There are no data on that. But material and circumstances also change when it is good to increase taxes or to lower them. And there's one thing I feel like I'm missing from now on. There is no idea how we're going to recover from the collapse after we've quit our debt collection. How, in effect, is the situation expected to increase taxes? [[The president calls.]] The government doesn't want to say anything about it. It's probably necessary when we reach that point in the front box, the return in the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u124	Mr. President. I'm here recommending a minority factor 3 less part for a budget plan of 2021 5202025. In the beginning, I want to introduce myself to a work ethic that has been done under unusual circumstances and especially since complex changes have occurred between discussions, which is not common. These changes were presented not only in presentation but also as soon as they were introduced to the committee meeting. I don't think that's enough work. At the same time, there were long meetings, so there was little room for study before the matter was discussed in the Senate Hall. I believe this important matter could have been given a more serious consideration by the Committee if more time had been made to review all the evidence, especially in view of the fact that the plan was updated with a very shame prior to the members of the Board of Justice. Often, the need to set aside time to prepare meetings for a financial committee over the years has been identified, but it cannot be seen that there is any desire to change this process for the better, unfortunately, and much less to the unprecedented economic conditions. This financial strategy is the natural policy declaration of this government of the forward-class, Independence Party and Left Green. This is the methodology they're going to have used in terms of the next few years if they get back to power after the election, which is in relation to today's situation, rather unlikely, that I think. However, another factor is that there is still considerable uncertainty about the economic situation and is not to reduce it from news reports today, judging what we receive, to a lesser extent than what was expected in the plans for the country. True, it can affect the idea of delay, and it will not be as powerful as it is expected in this and in the budgets. So the question is, if it will not be out of date soon after it is approved? I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came along to see that we have been through a huge debt that was well worth the viral epidemic. Of course, he is right. He mentioned the stability process, that they made a big difference in reducing debt, and I agree with it completely. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson also came into it. But then I also want to use this opportunity to show that it was not least for the course and ideologies of the present prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunoll Gunnlaugsson, who became a reality and was important to the nation, who were used to pay off debt and made it possible for the state's funds to do well today. This, in effect, was the final part of the work of the government of Shimmer Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson. I just want to come to an important part of this program, that's the debt collection and the importance of stopping it. It has grown substantially during the time of the viral epidemic, and it is clear that in the years ahead there is a large rise in the interest rate of government funds due to an increase in debt. The cost of money may increase rapidly. Remuneration rates, financial expenses, as well as the increase in debt, can be expected to increase further. As we live in our competitive countries, we need a much higher proportion of government income to cover interest costs in this country than in a foreign country. As a result, Iceland's taxes either have to be higher than those of our controlled countries or our state funds to spend less money on the combination. There is concern about the future. It is very important that the government budget be handled as cautiously as possible and not add to the risks of government funds from what has become available. Hv. paritaprevir That is exactly what Haraldur Benediktsson, head of financial planning, noted that when it came to debt, the state's funds were on the edge of debt, and I agree with it. They need to be very careful, making sure that the national structure will not be placed in a position where taxes need to be raised in order to recover the financial balance or that the necessary cuts and cuts are needed to obtain the necessary sustainability. This would greatly affect the public's standard of living and the management of enterprises in this country. The plan estimates that there will be a holding of debt in 2025 and will then be about 2025. 60% of land production, which is a natural significant increase from pre-pandemic level. A financial minister's memo to the budget board since December 15th. it shows that there is no pleasure in the fact that debt will continue to grow in parallel to a high degree of compromise. It goes against the baseline law on public finances on the sustainableness of public funds. The primary objective is to stop the increase in the debt of the government as a proportion of GDP by the end of 2025, which needs to achieve the share of the state's primary balance, but primary balance is the cost of budgeting. It cannot be seen that the government's purpose that the collection of debt be stopped by 2025. Thus, I cannot say that there is a solution in this program as regards which the government does not fully finance the interest rate within the time period given by the minister in his letter to the Committee. Thus, it can be assumed that they need a loan. This will be as far as the total balance of the state will go on after 2025. The letter also shows that the maintenance measures of exchange between the income and charge sides of the state's budget and that have not been implemented in the second part of the programme, either for individual revenues or on the topic field. It can be noted that one of the aims of financial planning is to provide a well - thought - out policy of the government, so it is not in the spirit of the law not to implement as important grounds as the plan is on. At this point, therefore, the direction to take place is totally under the heel. I believe, Mr President, that here, a minister needs to do much better to ensure the credibility of the policy, because it doesn't have to reproduce how much credibility is involved in all of this. A course and plan that few believe in is simply unlikely to be successful. While it is important to maintain discipline in public finances, it is important that a state be organized to cope with future events. It should be noted that during the next year, eco-efficiency is expected to be within financial policy goals, but it is expected to use about half of the uncertainty of the shifts immediately, and we are up here. In spite of a considerable change in next year's economic projections, forecasting about unemployment is the same as in an updated financial policy, or about 6.7%. There is a significant chance that unemployment could increase next year if the economic interest rates get worse and, as I said earlier, this can become the case, based on news that we received today about vaccine delay - or perhaps not delayed - but less vaccine than expected. Then it can work out, unfortunately. There are darker predictions of unemployment, such as. predicts the World Bank of November 1st. I don't think there's any misassessment of the cost of unemployment in this program and that these costs could exceed 100 billion dollars. for the next two years. How important it is, then, to promote creation, and the government must have a credible policy in this regard. It is important to support the companies so that they can keep their employees informed and that they will be good at the start of the interview. I'm just going to step back to a chapter of my committee party, which I've given to the headline of a government fund not forever and ever. It has to be said, as it is, that my opinion of the committee is a red cord that the debt collection of state funds is a concern. It's once so that a loan has always to be paid back, and I'm that way, and I've told you, Mr. President, that I'm not sure the government would have taken so much money if it wasn't for nine months. According to this strategy, debt does not stop raising until 2025 as a percentage of land production. I doubt it. There is the danger that the debt of the state and rural society can reach 65% of land production at this point in case no action is taken. What a dramatic change that is for the worse in a short time! Thus, it is a matter of cultivating economic growth, and it is a long time and concern that it takes five years to balance government interests if that is achieved at any other time. An updated financial program suggests that the publication of the State Fund will be negative by 325 billion over the next year and 909 billion by 2021 and 202025, respectively. If the uncertainty shift, as authorized according to the new financial policy, is fully new, the debt of state will be 2,000 billion in a few years. That's a huge amount of money, Mr. President. Although uncertainty about economic development has diminished as a result of positive reports of vaccines that changed since today, the Ministry of finance warns that economic development in 2021 may be of any less disturbing value than the forecasts for the economic policy. This is due to some uncertainty about the number of tourists in the year. I would like to agree with what happened to my members of the Central Party Subclass about the President's conference board, that there is a need to discuss the vaccine situation, the news we received today that there are considerably lower levels of vaccine and later than expected, because it affects so much. It affects this strategy. If the tourism is close, we are likely to have a strong economic growth of 2022 and 223, unless there are further traumas in the water, which we certainly hope will not be. Although Ministers feel that they have met the risk of adverse economic development through counter measures, it is clear that there is room for further resistance. It is hard to see that the state funds can carry on further counterargument measures, and the crisis will continue very long. We have survived the next year, and this is where the foundation is set by means of an approved budget and budget to the next year. However, there is no such thing as the budget, nor is there a financial program where the results of this government's antiviral pack, up to tens of billions, have been given in spite of the commitment of public financial legislation to assess the effectiveness of these measures. That's not good, because they are putting considerable money in the various strengths. It is now setting up to 20 billion in a so - called proprietor. Truly, we hope that they will produce results, but we need to appreciate also what has already been done and what has been the result. The early government's actions were marked by a lot of despair and were not well prepared, as we saw so clearly when some highly established business began to take advantage of such measures as the partial improvement process without needing them. This was simply an insufficient preparation of the law. Now for the second discussion, 63 billion will be expected. the increase of budgets in 2021 from the previous discussion. Of these, the government's decisions weigh less than 48 billion dollars, economic, or systematic changes except for a minimum of 6.3 billion dollars, covering an expenditure of 4.7 billion. .. and remuneration of 1.7 billion. The General Assembly takes the initiative only at a rate of more than 2 billion. of this little 63 billion increase in budget for the next year. This shows that the role of the General Assembly as a financier is really insignificant, and it raises questions about what the great body of budget and council is actually doing. This has truly been a great work on the committee, and we know it, the members of the committee. But this raises questions in view of what the work has done when looking forward to the suggestions and initiatives that have existed within the council itself. In the above - mentioned memo from the highest. Secretary of finance correctly stated that Haggis Iceland is responsible for the development of national interest accounts and public financial reports, including hiding. in particular responsibility for interpretation and induction of their standards and rules of action. This is the so - called GFS global report standard set up by the World Bank. It is international and allows for international comparisons to compare the right figures with the right fields. The minister is responsible for the implementation of the government account, but that account is revised by Government Accounting and is therefore subject to professional attention to independent experts on basic financial issues. However, national interest rates are not revised by any neutral party. I believe that the Ministry needs to consider the establishment of a comparable quality check in the development of national interest accounts and economic reports and a review of national accounts by independent persons. It is important that both regimens are crossed off to the relevant and neutral parties. In all, 24 organizations previously classed outside the government have been reassigned and are now counted within it. This includes the turn of the Member States into the budget, i.e. The business and balance of these parties will be considered to be standard government and rural administrations and will be expressed in public interest. Here, for example. To discuss the credit fund of Icelandic students and the scholarships of students, as well as the classification of an ICU budget until the year 2019, and Housing Fund, and IL Fund. This is in agreement with the European economy opinions. The extent of the change is considerable, but with it property and debt will be counted as other state property and debt and will run the volume of the account for hundreds of billions of dollars. Also, funding and spending will increase largely in this area as it is a huge loan fund. As shown in a memo in the highest vv. The minister is aware that these changes will affect the absolute conditions in the public financial law, since the debt of the government according to the current definition will go beyond the 30 percent that the law has. At the same time, it is stated that the minister is working to solve the problems we face in this letter. I would have thought, Mr. President, that the aforementioned firms and agencies of the government should have already been in the state's condensation accounts, and so this effect should have been established long ago in the together-up process of the state. Mr. President. I haven't been here to review various budgetors and how they appear in this program until the end of the five. However, I am happy to say that the Lands Hospital of University Hospitals will have more room to work at the angle of the hospital business. I thoroughly explained the problems facing the operation of the National Hospital in my committee's list of budgets. I'd like to say, though, that I was very disappointed in not seeing any signs of not meeting senior citizens in this program. I also carefully reviewed the position of the older citizen in my committee list of budgets. The media moved three changes in the budget at 2nd. who turned to older men, and who made better their own goods. I'd like to name $70,000 there. tax-free monopoly. In this regard, I would like to mention that older citizens receive the ups that others will receive next year as they look to the biographer agreement and, third, we suggested that jobs do not interfere with pensions, all important suggestions. Sadly, these suggestions were given by the administrative sector, by independent category, by forward, and by the left green. But we will not give up and continue. How disappointing it is to see no plan to improve the interests of older citizens in this financial programme until the next five years! It may show where these classes are, and it may be that in the coming years, it is quite clear that these classes are not heading for the right interests of older citizens. The main challenge of the financial agenda is to reverse a large exchange, as mentioned at the outset, and no later than the final year of the strategy. For some years, a great limp on the treasure of the Kingdom has many negative consequences for national preparation. We know this. The damage rates will be expected to be short-lived after all unless economic growth becomes much higher, which, unfortunately, becomes unlikely and is confirmed in the programme when it says, with the permission of presidents: However, growth is unlikely to be such that there is no need to take action to stop debt growth. That's all there is to say. Economic growth in Iceland has been more aggressive than that of our neighbors. A breakdown in our largest sector, the tourism service, has had a significant impact on economic growth and its development. Recently, the World Council changed financial policy into a way that allows more space for spending without funding. It allows more debt collection and thus, the state's tail can reach a maximum in the range of 7◯16% of land production. In general, public debt should be subject only to investments and taxes. Clearly, during the financial policy there is an increase in debt used to finance, in part, business and transfer. It does not show how much debt is thought to be an investment. In the case of growth inflation, it must be carefully monitored for its development in the present situation. I've been talking about this before. If the harbor bank employs the money policy in an effort to influence economic growth, unemployment, and real - life growth by systematically expanding the economy, it causes instability and a growing inflation. A balance of gold is needed here. An extensive government loan is predictable. It must be thought that financial policy and money policy work together well, and the government does not push out private investors with their business ventures into a loan market and more may be involved in the interaction of financial policy and money policy in this financial agenda. Interestingly, the total cost to hospital services is reduced in the budget after 2020, while OECD calculates that the next few years will require an increase in health care expenses in Iceland, e.g. due to an increase in the numbers of the elderly. While the decline is based on the completion of a new hospital, there will be room for the expected increase in health care costs. It is not included in this schedule. If we look here at the end of a budget and a financial plan, these two cases are rated by elections next year. Although economic growth is expected to occur immediately in the new year and the travel service takes over, expenses are not reduced. In this respect, budgets for 2021 and budget 2021 5202025 are identified by elections that lie ahead of us in just nine months. It is committed to the next government to bring down the balance of state funds. A government government with nine months behind its administration feels that it is important that a clear and realistic policy should be set in order to stop an increase in government debt as a share of national product over the end of the financial programme, thus disrupting the cycle of surrogacy and debt to restore the financial status of the government, as the financial programme says. However, the government is afraid to show itself to a high degree by reducing the progress and wastefulness of the government, as the secretary of finance has noted many times. That's too short for an election. The requirement for efficiency and economy in all government activities must be adopted and is lacking in this financial programme. This can easily be done without affecting those who need help in times of distress and heavy unemployment. We were in the Central Party, for example. with budgetary proposals for the budget, a change in the practicality of the budget by 5%. It's not a big amount, but it would have turned half a billion into a savings box for a trust fund. It is only natural that the State will go ahead by making practical adjustments in the current years, and it can be done well without any need to be told or handled by those who need help. But this was not the case, and the suggestion was made. That it takes five years to balance the financial situation with the State is a very long time. The bill does not expect subsidies, but reduces as a proportion of GDP. The debt is thus to be earned. Well, then government funds don't have much space. So a new government is facing a difficult task. The priorities of the State's funds must be carefully considered in difficult circumstances and ahead because they are uncertain ahead. Mr. President. I'd like to at the end to quote a good economic professor at the University of Iceland Ragnar Árnason. He said that the great limp that has now reached the state's budget can prolong the economic impact of the virus epidemic. Of course, that's a concern. Economic growth must be very high if it is not to be cut down or made tax count. That economic growth is not predictable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u125	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for an excellent speech. I can, for example, say things, especially when it comes to efficiency and emphasising the priorities of government affairs. Hv. At the beginning of his talk, a member of the committee's work was a mere comment, and I am able to say. A senator that it would be desirable for us to have more time to work on a financial agenda and I'm not talking about any reviews or policies, plans and so making money in this policy cycle. Sometimes, though, time is just so that we need to deal with the situation they are. In June, the General decided to postpone the first day of the meeting and to push these matters all ahead because they were in a way so uncertain and merely facing the fact that it was up to impossible. There were really no plans for building on, i.e. Economic forecasts primarily. It was a lot of uncertainty, but it doesn't excuse anything. On the other hand, I think that's what we're doing. Legal committees have worked hard, including the U.S. Yeah. A senator who is extremely hardworking so that I say it only here, and that the whole committee has taken a situation of great intensity and worked well at this crisis of time. I just want to get to the plan. Hv. A senator said that she would soon be decommissioned. So I disagree completely because in this program, there are very important factors. A senator agreed, including that it is clear when we need to stop a debt collection when it comes to baseline on sustainability and when governments and the General decide to re-activate financial laws on public finances. [[The president calls.]] This is very important. [[The president calls.]] This will not be taken out of this schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is excellent. I agree with what. A senator's concern is that there are natural factors that will not be taken out of the program. But I was rather appealing to outside circumstances, e.g. just the new news that we just received today, as I traced in my speech, that we are not getting the amount of vaccine that we expected, and that is why vaccination will be prolonged. This is a natural serious thing because it can significantly affect the resistance. Most of the measures that have been undertaken that are cost-estimating for the state's funds are about to become powerful resistances, and it is thought to be a good economy in the next year. I think it's just getting a little bit more confused that it's really going to work out. Then it must affect this strategy, the debt of state funds. If government funds need to continue to be improved, and so forth, unemployment and unemployment are going to remain high, and we do not get down, as we expect, we say to ourselves that plans not to make debt after 2025 are in danger. Then the natural scheme is out - of - date. It's only once like that. Although we have there, like the policy, a certain uncertainty gap that we can use, we're still, unfortunately, still in big uncertainty. It has to do with all this work, it has to do with financial plans, it has to do with the budget and what we're trying to put together on our last record here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u127	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Hv. One senator said: "Yes, it is true, there is an important point in this program. In fact, we'll review it in more than two months, and then hopefully we'll be able to initiate the looping process of public financial formalities. We have better time to investigate more aspects of the program and to sustain governments. His talk presented some difficulty. A senator admitted that the decision of the Generals was about 2 billion and that all this work would be short. In fact, I would like to see that here, it is an exceptionally historical situation and more than most of the time when we add a government decision and the General decision between discussions. This may highlight the challenges we face. Of course, our work is not simply about seeing an opportunity to spend money. Rather, it is about providing government support. I think we're doing it very well, and it's important. Now it's so bad. A senator says we're on the edge. In terms of debt, I just want to refer to the financial hearings that were very successful in reviewing what is called the future sustainable financial spending, which is not a concern of time, but that there are limits to how far we can go. We're going to the lower limit because this is not an absolute standard that exists. Rather, it is often said that in the economy of one of us, it could lie between 60 and 80, 90%. [[The president calls.]] We'll be back at this hour, based on plan, we'll be right behind us or we'll be in 60%. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent answer. Because of what? A senator made it clear that when it comes to debt, I was simply quoting an authority manager's statement, or... paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson. I agree with him, and my opinion shows that we have to be very careful about these matters. When the time for debt is due, we can only look forward to the failure of the state's funds. In the end, there are natural taxpayers in the country who come to bear the responsibility when it comes to paying off these debts. If this is not paid down under the expected merits of commercial growth, the public, unfortunately, will eventually be exposed to tax increases or cuts. This has been a fine economic professor, Ragnar Árnason, confirmed and presented as I mentioned earlier. But because of him. This was introduced by a member of the Parliament in unusual circumstances and the changes made and that the Council had a very small part of the changes in budgets that have been proposed, it is a very unusual situation. I don't think there's ever been a change in budget for 53 billion, or what it was. In that respect, it's very special. Nevertheless, I must say that the work of the Generals is important, and I take my heart to the follow-up of the Allied team, as it were. A senator spoke. I just want to thank him at the end for his work, how he's conducted meetings for financial management successfully. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We hope to look forward to a better era in the new year, although the maps are so uncertain at present. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u129	A respectable president. Here, I recommend the Committee's section 4 of the budget for the 2021/2025. Public financial laws have merely been said to be baptized during the present season. This is clearly evident in the financial programmes established by the government during the terms of the election, and this is now under consideration of the second most recent financial programme of this government, in case of a similar event, which takes place in the year 20213/42025. It establishes the lines of government policy until a new budget is submitted for the next spring. Its time, therefore, will be only four to six months, as per official financial law, which states that a new plan should always be submitted for April 1, although the main objective of the program is, of course, to add the lines to five years of age. In this regard, financial policies are actually more involved. If so, likely the election will take place in the end of the fall as a whole of other governments. Thus, in the spring of 2022, a new government will bring new emphasis and a new financial plan. A financial body points out that at the end of the terms of each government, there is a problem that the government law on public finances cannot expect. Regarding this, the financial council says, with the permission of a president: ▪ The problem is that challenges may often be predictable ahead of time that need to be addressed during the next term, although their release may occur outside the ideal period of present rulers. Failure to cope with problems can lead to complacency and myopia. Now the situation motivates the government to delay difficult action until after the election. The financial and economic secretary has assumed that in 2025 a debt collection has to be stopped. However, specific measures to reduce emissions are not to be taken until the latter years of the programme. So here is where the ball is thrown to the next government and even to the next one. to improve Kingdom funds annually, about 37 billion dollars. In the year 2023/2025. There's no secret that a financial program shows that the gathering of this government's Covid problem will be thrown into the arms of the next one. It may not be possible to take action to reduce debt in the next few months without severely affecting the economy. All measures must be taken to protect the transfer systems and to prevent any government cuts at this time. It would also be unwise to be tempted to increase the income of a government fund with an increase in taxation during such recesses. This would only result in an even greater decline in the economy and increase in the inequities and inequities of society. Hence, it is understandable that there is no planned action to be made until the recent years of the program. A new government is given the challenge of reducing debt collections and ensuring the growth of the economy over the years. After the next election, it will be seen whether it will be done by old - fashioned surgery or if there will be new ways to prevent the application of the needed measures. Health, aging and education institutions continue to be required to maintain business management. These financial programs provide maintenance goals. There are 2% of generalists in the years 20211/2022 and 0.5% of health, aging and education institutions. However, they have fallen from the provisional requirement for institutions in 203/52025, and the general bramble is reduced to 1%. We have already noted the negative consequences of requiring clinics for management. It has cut down everything that can be cut down, and it can be seen that further cuts severely affect the ministry. It is incomprehensible that this cutting requirement is maintained for the next two years and then removed. It would be more natural to turn this around and make less demands on the maintenance today of Covid, but it will increase if necessary in later times when economic growth has taken over and economic prospects have improved. In general, though, a fourth smaller portion of it seems quite wrong to call for maintenance of medical care, which is not to be done. However, despite the long - term distribution of domestic problems by the government today, this does not change the fact that the management crisis of the land hospital is up to over 4.3 billion dollars. It's really sad. It's just sad that he's not gone. We are to make sure that all health institutions are equipped with the latest technology and enough human resources. We should not have to look at anyone who is moved to provide the land hospital with the means to save lives because health authorities draw their feet and do not. We should not have to look at the many elderly in the face of uncertainty and distress waiting for permanent housing. Even elderly ones are forced to wait for a medical facility in the hospital because health authorities do not want to negotiate with their private staff for nurses. We're not supposed to have to live in an education system that gets one drop score after another. A financial plan originally arranged for 32 billion dollars. Unassigned measures are being made annually in the course of 20231⁄22025 in order to reduce financial growth and increase the income of the state's funds. The total size now has to be increased by 32 billion dollars. In 37 billion dollars, this is shown by the adjustment of more part of the legal committee. In comparison, the maintenance goal of next year is expected to be 5 billion dollars. decrease in interest rate. So this is a large sum of money. It is only natural that these measures are not further described in a financial program, and their implementation will be one of the main subjects of the next government. The minister of finance has already identified the path of independent individuals in these matters, for on page 20. 102 on a proposal for a resolution on financial plans, this plan appears. It says, by permission of the president: It has the potential to meet funds with the value of possessions. The plans to sell parts of the state in Iceland bank were postponed, but if that sale became available, the need for funding could be reduced or the debt reduced. Such a sale might be a useful option for the latter part of a financial program, thus reducing the rate of debt increase could be reduced sooner. So they want to sell yellow eggs that have given up 65 billion dollars. in monthly payments since 2016. The bitter experience should have taught us that selling money is more often than making large sums of money to the buyers while the nation loses. We're going to have a good copy of the privatization up from the end of the century. A small group of chosen profits were made magnificent, but the nation remained with a painful stillness. Then we are freshly reminded of how the Bank of Lands sold its property at Borg. To this day, we are waiting for a number of questions about Lindahil's operation that were responsible for the sale of property that the State has taken over through stability. The need for action has long been needed in various areas of matter, but the government has repeatedly rejected further financial provisions. There, a dozen percent of your social security workers are weighing more than one hundred percent. The government and its predecessors have failed to comply with legal correctation of social security every 1 January, according to paid conditions, such as 69 p.m. Law on Social Security No. 100/2007. There is also the Land Hospital, which deals with a vast array of management halls that the government should cancel immediately. In effect, that is what a group of people wanted to see, and more members have called for the same thing. Of course, they are characterized by opposition to government, so they may as well go to the nothing, I think. But it is not enough to build a living room, although it is worth a fine price, and here I know that there are now 100 living rooms in a building, and it should not be taken lightly, but it is necessary to secure the funding of their business. That's exactly what hasn't been done. Many other government agencies have a fund map that hinders them from caring for their legal duties. It is a shame that the government is not going to address the crisis of a financial agenda. The people's party has proposed a synopsis of local payment on paying taxes on deposit in a pension fund. If the pay of the local pay is taken immediately, not at the moment, but at the end of this report, it would increase the income of the state budget by hundreds of millions of dollars a year without any damage to the pensioner's interests. Those who have already contributed to a pension fund have nothing to fear, for changes in the tax system are never burdensomely repetitious. Instead, we collect debts all over the world, and I've said so many times here, hoping that this team will raise more discussions, positive discussions, when we make progress that if a local payment is taken into the pension fund, we'll get tens of billions of dollars of dollars that I would like to have used for the owners of the funds, to eliminate the impairment, so that we can use it right away but not later. Now our pension fund has over 6,000 billion dollars. Possessions, the Icelandic law. Is there any reason for this to swell out further? The pensions pay more than 200 billion a year to cover their expenses. Those who criticize this question ask, " Should the rights of a pensioner be cut off by taking a local payment immediately, saying that they cannot do as well? ' I say to the critics: I do not know better than that, despite paying a post payment payment as it is currently being paid, the situation here has come up with one pencil, one night, one meeting, as far as 30% because of the failure of the business. Besides, I haven't forgotten, Mr. Honorable President, how my pensions lost about 600 billion dollars. ... ofthepriority of a pensioner in the economy crash. But we also need to realize that it is very dangerous and calls for the risks of the investment funds to have a legal obligation at the fund to have a $3.5% requirement for fruitage. In fact, if we watch, for example, it is from every step of the country's interest level. ... thegrowingoftheService Bank, which is down to 0.75 percent. Even if the consumers of a public bank market have been allowed to enjoy only far too little, then there is reason to examine this system. For example, it has often been said that the simplest way to get the country's opinion without putting it in a national bill is to give a good poll, allowing the individual to choose whether he would prefer to pay his dues on payment and then not have to think about it any further or whether he would want to do it in late stages and if he would prefer to have it so that we would eliminate all the impairments. There would be left over, a respectable president, up to a few dozen billion, just this, that could be used elsewhere. I can't figure out why it's so hard to step outside the box. And then there's a really sad, respectable president, watching how the poorest people in this country are constantly being avoided. We can stop talking about the lowest level of income here being below poverty limits. They're below the limits of hunger. Surely we can tell ourselves that the lack of nutrition and monotonous food that a person eats does not have the means to buy vitamins in an attempt to counteract the monotonous food that he or she consumes. It's Christmas coming, Mr. Honorable President. The poor have the 50,000 bucks. Right now, in monopolizes, tax-and-poor, at Christmas, it was just great. 1.1 billion of previously approved funds were used for this. We had previously authorized 4 billion dollars. Funding for change in the system for disability, and it was thought, first, as I understood, that work assessments should be tried, then 2.9 billion were taken to deliver a cent on a certain group down to 65 bucks. There were about to be 1.1 billion, and it will be used to help microchip for Christmas by 50,000 bucks. It's a one-time pay, and it's amazing. That's why I can't understand why we're leaving behind someone who is in trouble. I just don't get it, Mr. Honorable President. It's discrimination, and it's just ugly. That's the only word I have for it. It's just really ugly. I've been calling a lot of seniors. It's kind of the hardest thing I've ever done, listening to older people who have worked their whole life, start crying sickly because of feelings of distress and anxiety. It's one of the hardest things you can do in this job, listening to how it's being broken down by this community. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has repeatedly concluded that the group does not count so many individuals. Why, then, are they not helped? Why do they stand out as different? This year and the next, some 600 billion debt collections are spoken of. Based on the negative, dreary news we just received with a vaccine, and I'm sure we have to dry out a few months longer than our warmest wishes, there's really nothing that says we can't raise our debt anymore. But if we were to decide to make it a New Year's resolution now to try the alternative approach to the disease prevention, to focus solely on them on the border, while allowing the rest of us to be at peace with which this fine country is built, and to use our systems and shops, and not always order something from abroad, to be at our restaurants, and in our local theaters, and everywhere else we get to be on our own, the education system, the health system, and everything better. Everything would be so much more comfortable and better. It would reduce depression, suicide, and all of this. We've been hit, we've been up and down. We're going through this wave and the others, and now it's okay, and now it's safe to lose weight, but, oops, it's all going up again. What do people expect? We're bringing in the virus. There's nothing more complicated than that. And we're getting tired. The people have grown tired of being confined to their homes. We are tired of being able to escape free heads in our small country according to our special status and the good that we can at least Said to hide from living here on this little island in the north of the ocean. This virus can get into the country in two ways, either by sea, through Sufjörður and other ports, or by flight. It's all right for us to stop this. We are in a position to be here with everything running all over the country, enjoying our community as we've always had and want to keep going. All I want to do is encourage the government and the CDC to impress on them. To my people, I'm just saying, we've been really busy and you've been great heroes. The health - care professional has been standing in the line of fire, and it is also tired. We don't want the fourth wave of the outbreak. We don't want to see it. We're getting rid of this shit right now. We're supposed to enjoy it. We don't want the fourth wave of the outbreak, and I know that I speak for the mouth of quite extraordinary numbers when I say this. There's no record of it, not in financial programmes, financial policies, finance, financial support, it's not in anything called financial something here, every real gain has been of the enormous costs we've put in the operations we've had on the border, all these screens and all these calls and all that we've had to move forward and the tremendous collapse of travel services. What has it cost us to close all these hotels and all that? What, though, would it give us if we personally could travel in a land free and stay in hotels and everything we wanted to do if we wanted to? I've mentioned here that it was actually standard practice, before the tourist industry was so edifying, that all hotel rooms were always uprooted and hotels could hardly be stayed there one night, except ordering a room with many months' notice. But we went from country to country, ordered our rooms, and went to visit friends and family. The settlements came here to the city to travel to the city, to take Christmas shopping, to stay in hotels, or to rent apartments that they had otherwise rented. But now nothing can be done. It's all stopped, it's all forbidden because we're moving virus through the border, thinking. A respectable president. I'm just saying again, we're supposed to stick together as never before. It is taken around the world as we gather ourselves together. Of course, we will also be as frustrated when the whole population calls for some new wave as in this case perhaps a fourth wave. But we can't let that happen now at Christmas, for then we can never see that the emphasis would be changed and that there would be more freedom within the country. We have to get this virus choked right now, and then we can start in some way at zero points and up to a new one, for us, for our community. That's what I wanted to see. The financial program I've discussed here is accompanied by a number of aspects of exactly what needs to be done. But we know that it is also for a very short time. I agree with my colleagues on the budget board, that time has been turned. It's been a lot of work on the Committee, and we don't regret it, but it's worse when it's done in almost one meeting, and you just get sad. We've been talking about resistance for so long. We need to rely on ourselves. We have to drive our own financial system now. That doesn't mean that we're riding foreign tourists at the moment, and we don't want the fourth wave of the outbreak into the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u130	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. I kind of asked for an answer rather early in a talk. Because I'm not quite sure that I understand her position on the financial agenda we're discussing here. Yet, I was heard under a talk. A senator now felt that she was being done what had to be done under these circumstances. But I read it out of the committee opinion that there is a possibility that something could be done to reduce debt collections in the next month and that there is also a need to come to the defense of the transfer vessels we are doing. That's what it says. A senator that we needed to get through this, as I understood why. A senator, using a heavy load of what is called automatic fluctuations. Then he talks. A senator also says that now there are circumstances that encourage the government to delay difficult action until after election, and that the financial agenda is that the gathering of the Covid problem of this government - I don't want to blame the government on the Covid problem - - is being held in the hands of the next. I just want to pray. A senator explaining this to me only because I feel that I still read it from the text to the question. A senator believes that it takes just what we are doing now to take on the economic activities we are doing. Then it just happens that we're in the season when it's almost over. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Watch your step. A senator would explain this to me a little further?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for the counter-sponsored. I'm not minimizing the measures the government has taken, not at all, although, in some respects, I would have been quite different from some of them. It's probably because I'm not in the same category as any member of the government, and our focus in The Gang of the People is quite different in many ways. But now I'm really confused. I don't completely understand the question, or I've just grown to such a point that I've forgotten. We were just talking, so I kind of forgot the question, what? Senator. - Yeah, that's right, here we go. No, I'm not blaming the government for Covid, not at all. When talking about moving the problem to the next government, it tells itself that it could possibly be the same thing that I don't expect, and she sits herself in her arms. They're rolling it ahead of them. What I'm talking about is, for example. Hospitals and other such, and the permanence that I feel, e.g. This is not correct because we are dealing with Covid and because the Landspians are dealing with a huge financial problem at the same time and they need to be in a permanence demand. That doesn't seem right to me, not at all. I'll come up with a little bit better in my next answer to why I'm saying the whole thing is being placed in the arms of the next government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u132	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think it's just clear up in the answers why. Senator. I was just not sure what to read from the committee opinion and whether it was. A senator would simply object to the large picture presented in the financial program. But it sounds like a what? A senator agrees with her, that she is against her, but that she might have liked some things differently. I hope I'm not laying down. A senator's word in the mouth, but I understand that it's an economic response, i.e. that under these circumstances it is normal for the state fund to collect debts, and that is to help us keep our carts rolling through this time. But because of health recommendations, I must protest them, for in all this terms much money has been added to it. Like what? A senator himself intended to provide 100 new nurses, and more money is being put on the nursing home. Thus, the maintenance budget is so much smaller than the new and rising cost of health care. So that's where I disagree. A senator who finds this presentation to be misleading. It seems that cutting down is being done when there is an enormous increase in the amount of money available to the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u133	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. What I'm trying to draw up in this financial discussion is, in fact, an extremely short period of time, even though it is supposed to be worth five years. The law says you have to bring a new one before April 1, just next year. I guess that will be the last time we discuss the budget of the government unless it's due to be re-elected. It will then be a new government that gets it in its arms that this government leaves behind. That's what it says to itself. Hv. A senator reminded us, and as a result of my speech earlier, it is an election in the autumn of an event so that the bank manager, financial adviser, and other persons have expressed themselves about the moral problem that can arise from trying to continue buying power by even overindulging in promises and in debt and so on. I don't know what happens to medical institutions, but I don't agree with them at all. A senator says that only a lot of money has been added here. The fact is, here is elderly e.g. increasing greatly, so the condition of the nursing home has not even been financed. I'll give myself an example of how great the health system is. I've almost had my hands on both hands for almost seven weeks, and I'm still waiting to get to a specialist with whom I need to go through my medical care. A home physician sent a reference seven weeks ago to tell me how necessary it was for me, after all these photographs and dothai, to get to a hand specialist. But no, maybe someday after a New Year's Eve. So I say, things work better in some areas of the health system as well as in others. That's for damn sure. [[The president calls.]] And it should not take place that we have a requirement for living at these times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u134	Mr. President. What is the role of the Generals as the government? How does it handle this authority and its responsibilities? How does the government negotiate with the council? What is the share of the crown in the problems we face? In these questions, I'm going to try to add a little bit to my speech. Trying to analyze the problem and the vision, the cause and implementation, the virus, and the financial plan. I will discuss how we look at the whole state business and use it more fully, and that the power of international employment is essential to our success and the basis for our maintaining a powerful welfare system. The government's financial affairs are of great importance to all of us. They can be divided into two parts. On the one hand, they tell how much money to make, how, and where to earn. Then there is the factor of the resulting debt and of what value. However, what projects must be considered to protect the money that is funded by the government. Of course, it teaches many grasses, including services of various kinds, investments, and support networks for those who live in such long - term circumstances or soon to be unable to support themselves financially. The subject may be approached either by deciding which needs to be met and where to raise the money, or by deciding first what to earn and what to do. In real life, it usually happens with some mixture of these two routes. I have this introduction to my financial agenda for the years 2021/2025 in this way because that is exactly what the government is dealing with through its contribution. The situation is totally out of control with this financial program. First, she's very late on the trip, but she wasn't submitted at the proper time in spring, as the law assumes. This was justified by the fact that the economic outlook for Covid was so uncertain that it could not be done. Whether the reason was valid, of course, the case can be debated, but that led to a conclusion. Second, after a few months, new financial programs have to be submitted early next year. Third, elections are in nine months, so, of course, it will be on the side of a new government to pop up the cards, publish new financial policies, financial programs, and provide budgets for 2022. It is obvious that this financial program we are discussing today is actually of little value except for the year to come and that it is the budget that will be approved in the coming days, hopefully tomorrow. Nevertheless, here is the vision that the government has in the months to come and how to say. On the basis of a resolution that has indeed declined recently, it must be assumed that the government is in line with the dream of continuing the government business, thus allowing the budget and financial programs to guide the future to governments. Mr. President. Of course, most of what has happened this year in the financial affairs of the state and how they will be treated next year is the case. We also know how government affairs have been conducted since this government began. Reverence has repeatedly criticized the government for having excited the bow too much at the rate of high - cost Kingdom spending and for the fact that the government's budget has become insurmountable for the virus epidemic. In this regard, the State account of the year 2019 is a clear witness. There, some 70 billion people began to swing worse from the budget of that year. It is not enough that the government has excited the bow all too high; it ignored all warnings, including. from us on a paradise, but also chose not to face all the flashy scenes of economic progress, clear evidence of financial collapse. Of course, she cannot blame anyone but herself. As a result, we are in a worse position to cope with the consequences of our viral crisis. This is vital when discussing government matters. Despite what is described above, much of this treasure is available in international comparison. The debt ratios had been reached to a high level, and the currency response rate was high in interest. Hence, it is both correct and reasonable to conclude that the sequence of events that began in February of this year was of full weight. There have been a number of measures, five financial products have been submitted, and many legal adjustments have been made to reduce economic and social injuries experienced by families and businesses. Much of what has been done has been successful. In the convention, we originally said that we would support all good matters, provide incentives, and strive to work at the council for reforms and refinements. We have. Sadly, the same cannot be said of the government that chose to decorate with special emphasis on cooperation and consultation with the General of the Constitution. They've been vacuumed in a drawer of the Council ever since, because the government has turned down all the changes and the advice of the smaller parts. However, it should be noted that in individual cases the committee committee has managed to improve matters from what was reported at the top of the government's high - frequency press conferences, which no longer exist. As we look to the future, we need to consider how we will cope with the grand task of balance in Kingdom life, how we will cover debt, and for how long. It can be expensive to owe, and it can be very difficult to predict the length of interest. The more you owe, the more money is needed. The more paid on the increase, the less money available will be provided for making lucrative implements, profitable infrastructure; think of future generations, and make sure that all the services we agree on are on the public side of the work. The government has been rather silent on this aspect of the matter. The market, the journal's copy of the journal, discussed yesterday how raising the Kingdom's interest in government bonds during the past few months, which may be due, in part, to a lower demand from pension funds, could lead to a greater position in the United States in order to straighten out the cow than other Western countries, which are at a better interest level, and to the less debt due to the crisis. This means that our competitive attitude as a nation and that our quality of life is impaired in comparison with our neighboring countries. Today, unscrupulous documents from ten years of age will remain in 3.3%, with an increase of 1 percent since mid - August. In fact, despite the fact that Iceland's Sidlabanki has lost control interest by 2.25% during the year, economic prospects have deteriorated rapidly. Further, the Marker says by permission of the president: If it is assumed that the debt of the state's budget in 2025, about 65 percent of the world's financial budget, will be on the interest paid by the state to ten years, as the standard is today, by 3.3%, the growth rate of GDP will be 2.14% of the land production equivalent to 65 billion dollars. every year. In comparison, the growth rate for Greece is about 0.98 percent of land production, but the International Cash Fund assumes that the debt ratio in Greece will be about 166% in 2025.156. These numbers are striking, 65 billion growth in one year; 2% of their land production. This is the least serious situation. What causes this tremendous difference in terms of government funds in relation to other European public funds, a state fund that has even greater percentage debt to be paid by but is far less than paid by interest - as in Greece's example, 166% of the land's production than pays less than 1% in interest of interest? There are 2% of our land productions that are going to grow, we cities over 3%. The answer is obvious - although it is not to be discussed or not wanted to be discussed. There is the U.S. river layer, all its glory, yet another manifestation of the military cost of living in the currency. Iceland is also affected by the interest rates of homes and businesses in the country. I made this a subject at the end of 2nd. of the budget of December 11, and said, by permission of the President: ▪ I also wanted to use this opportunity to mention one of the expense teams that are not listed in the budget bill. That is because we are running one of the least currency in the world. It's worth tens of billions of dollars for state funds, for the Navy bank, for homes, for the companies of the country. This is likely a cost of 150 to 200 billion people every year. This is one of the things we need to discuss and make serious observations, whether the dollar is far too expensive to us. Yes, Mr. President, this must be discussed. Often, when it comes to this matter, it is said that it is just something that we have to live with, that our economy is so fluctuated, and that when it comes back, the dollar comes to rescue and corrects our previous economic failures and prevents unemployment. Of course, we have much to consider. There are some facts when we compare ourselves with other European countries, such as former minister of Þorsteinn Pálsson, in his article in the newspaper of the press today, under the title "Unanxiety Needs Discussion. " For one thing, he points out this with the permission of a president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Governments in most other European countries borrow on virtually no interest in themselves. 2. The long - term growth rate of the state's funds on the domestic market is much higher. 3. Economic loans from foreign sources bring enormous danger of success. 4. Predictions for economic growth are best achieved after two years in the same position as 2019. Then money will be created to pay all the new debts. There are no plans for this additional economy. 5. Yet, this means higher taxes, or cutbacks. The government says there's neither. What? More loan? Mr. President First, this tells us that we need to focus our efforts on what is built for long - term economic growth and minimise the likelihood that trauma will have as much impact on us as we know from collapse as we saw happen again now, and in fact, we have seen each other all the time as far as we can see back in time. Economic growth has to be improved, particularly in support of the global sector and the development of intelligent exports that contribute to long-term sustainable and economic growth. That is one of our greatest challenges. Although it is right to celebrate because the government has greatly increased the funding of innovation and evolution, it simply takes more than that. Everyone should know that innovation and development are long-running, it takes time to achieve results. Short - term reliefs, therefore, are not enough. Such adventures are not designed to create something new and contribute to it their labors and money when men see beyond the limits of their time. At the most successful time, innovation companies are also quick to escape the swinging environment of the crown. It's got to make a change. Second, there are two sides on the crown. It causes fluctuations and amplifies them. And, yes, it can soften the blow, but it does, with its increased cost - consuming power. It shows that it is not the magic device that some claim when it comes to controlling unemployment. Third, it is an obstacle to innovation and, in fact, the majority of professional drivers. In this context, I would like to quote a brief Icelandic professional illustration published in the Backfish of the News newspaper, author of Thomas Möller. He says, by permission of the President, in his fist, which he calls a 'Saga of business': A few years ago, I had a company that brought goods from Europe and sold to companies in Iceland. The crowns that came from the sale were used to buy on euro by banks to pay off foreign supplies. The banks agreed to sell us the euro and transfer them to foreign lands. During those years, the crown's gang was swinging rapidly, as it has been this year, and the safety risk was calculated into the commercial products for increase. Then the company began to sell exports in Iceland. They wanted to pay for the goods in Europe to save the banks' worth of exchange. My company thus acquired euros, which were placed on the euro account of the company in the bank. Now we were able to pay directly to the suppliers without the bank in a similar way that we were paying for rents within the country. Gestures were over, and lower safety risks meant that we could reduce prices to buyers. The bank's payout parties ceased. The company's competition was improved, and sales grew. Let's imagine that all companies and families in Iceland, not just export companies, used euros in their business dealings. The above example shows black in white that the cost of trading can be reduced. Tens of millions of savings per year can be expected for the general public and company only because of the exchange costs of currency, as well as the difference in cost-to-selling rates that can absorb up to 3.5% in card exchange. Could it be our vision for the future to use an international currency in our country? I am content to settle this process on the crown and the problems it creates and the need for us to turn back quickly from identifying the military costs it brings with its full seriousness, preparing for a revolution in the composition of the economy, and starting a road that leads to our setting up for the European Union's board, taking up the euro, and taking an active part in the European community, which will become more important for all of Europe, and notably for us Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to finish my case here by saying: Finally, the key to our success is the power of a global - minded career that can have moderate but constant economic growth in the long run and thus rests on a powerful welfare system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In order for this to be successful, economic stability and destiny must be created. [[The president calls.]] To these goals, we want to work in the Backwaters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u135	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna say it here I'm sorry. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson to spend a little longer in public talk because I could have started my talk where he ended, on the basis of future success and employment. It is true that this will result in innovation, research, and a variety of employment conditions, especially when it comes to export work and economic stability. I'm here to discuss a government budget. We are in a subsequent discussion of a conquistador proposal for a financial program of 2021 in 202025. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, vice president of the night. The legislature committee, recommended the Commission's party of the greater part, was very well versed in the main theme of the proposal, basis, and change. I'm gonna try not to repeat it again as a matter of fact. A pilot did a very good job. I'd like to say, though, that under the special circumstances that exist, and has been shown in the case of all those who have had history here, there are circumstances that are unique. They involve not just our whole life at present and the economy, but the entire financial process. For example, we discussed a national financial and financial programme along with a budget plan, which, of course, should be based on government policy that it does, but the basis also for the budgetary bill, as we will agree on it, probably tomorrow, if everything goes into effect on the work programme. I'd like to agree with the financial council. It is very important to bring about the budget, which is immediately in harmony with the laws, although we certainly have a problem. The committee asked us to be reasonable and to take this most seriously in the desired order. I didn't mean to be here very long, but I also wanted to thank everyone in this context. A legal committee for good work, especially when this is the case. When things are disturbed in this way and we can say that in two months, we take in basically what we normally do in nine months, saying ourselves that it requires tolerance for taking a short period of time and that we may not always feel the way we want it to be. But we are in that position, and we need to work fast, and no one has left behind in that regard. I mean, time anomalies are understandable. In view of events and subsequent approval by the General Assembly on the Day of the Parliament, the continuation of a strategy in the light of uncertainty, and the review of the previous policy, and the General Assembly of September carried out. The usual procedure is that a government policy should be maintained for a complete period of time. Of course, it is of particular interest that we have revised it twice during this terms, and it is correct that in the priorities of the government, we have been improving the internal debt that had been built up when overemphasis were put on paying off debt, which now works out well. Then we put ourselves in a straitjacket, with a balanced view of financial matters, as a financial body pointed out so well. So it was not easy to do so. The first time we reviewed a government budget, a airline left a concrete, and we couldn't find a hairy two years in a row. This made the groundwork on which we were smiling. The treatment of financial regulations may be said to have been deactivated in order to provide real space to cope with emergencies. The law allows three years more, so we've decommissioned financial rules for six years, such as 7th par. The law says so. That may be the point of this plan. Much has been discussed today as to the importance of the plan, and of course it is of great importance. We try to stick to the policy process, and it has meaning in the sense that it contains the programs that we're working on next year. This, of course, is the major reaction to discussions in the budget work. It can be said that from 2022 and beyond, in part, the progress calculation, however, in relation to policy aims, the overall targets for survival and debt ratios can be discussed. Many have come into contact with it here today, and it is important that we show up in this schedule when and how to stop debt collections. There are two factors; there is the time point, and there is the arrangements to be taken. I think that's fair. I feel that in view of circumstances, in the face of uncertainty, and in view that next year is an election year, even the sum of the money should be on the pay and the pay button. Until then, we will reevaluate the financial program at its height. Governments we're talking about here. Then there's an election. Of course, depending on what the wind is, the measures it takes will be revealed. But sizes are available, i.e. the size. It is vital that a respected president grasp the scope of the situation. Now we're looking at one of four images, a darker set of images published in the bill itself. When the synopsis proposal was made and staged, we were at the beginning of the third wave of crown virus and were increasing intensification, which, of course, has a major impact on the economy and industry. And this darker stage has worked out. I've said that in the past many times about budgeting and planning how important it is to have objective financial opinion on the subject and the management of policy and plan. This includes the preferred support and the number of long - term tips. Another factor that may be difficult to explain is that if you read a policy and plan, as well as a law measuring for, through the times and as the wind, - like this ideal period, where we have revised policy to double -- hopefully an exception - the support of having this thread in the economic and financial policy of government and the role of the state's budget is up to date. I think it's important. An example of this is the first benefit of financial advice on financial balance in terms of improving economic growth and high priority in building up wood, while at the same time paying off debt. We continued to pay off debt, increase the spending, and prioritize to the biggest lawsuits, as laid out. Of course, numbers can be confirmed. I'm not going to play that number here, but I can find this thread in the opinion of a financial body. I'll take one example here, and it's important for us at the Council to have it in mind when discussing these matters. It will be a worthwhile project for the next few years, and even more difficult, after this economic crisis and the crisis we experience, to deal with what a financial body calls a underlying weakness on the income and the payoff. It's just that there's going to be a challenge to the future. We've been excited about the fee bow, but it turns out that a large part of the budget increase from year to year has gone to investments and building wood, which we trudged too long. I asked for a third answer earlier today, and the one who was then in opposition to me is now seated in the President's chair. In that counter, I was going to establish a very important object that we discussed, i.e. The priorities of the government, options and evaluations of options. That is exactly where I was going to say the same thing. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear, although I do not completely agree with him that the plan and policy are giggle. It's that I know very well, but we have something to live up to what we call, and what we call. A senator is a diligent student of the subject, a financial estimate of success. I mean, it's been getting better in time, but, of course, we've only had public financial laws since January 1, 2016. I would say that this plan is being accomplished in an amazingly short period of time. I would like to use this opportunity to commend those who have written it for very professional and good lyrics. Here are some very good boxes, and for those who want to understand, I would like to point out one on page. 131 that goes right into this show. We need, therefore, to map better, to use controls, and a measuring board, and to reflect on what criteria are appropriate. They vary widely according to topic fields and litigators, and at the same time they plan to do so. This, then, has been the point of financial advice that has led us through all our opinions, assessments of efficiency and willingness. To a greater extent, we need to be able to compare options quickly and effectively, get options here at the General Assembly to provide this support and make decisions, or have a stronger view of the government's decision at any time, whether in a government or a government situation. This is what I wanted to come by. However, I feel that the financial strategy we are now looking at and discussing is actually an implementation of Covid's policy of reacting. It is developed to the core of the budgets, and the fundamental change to an update in its capital is primarily this -- of course it is very special that so much change has taken place between discussions of financial matters. Of course, all procedures are available to support the economy, businesses, and homes. They can be found in the update between discussions, in a subsequent financial discussion. It is inevitable to put too much emphasis on getting us out of this situation, as the budget shows and is founded here, i.e. to maintain public status despite a major loss of income, that is, the aim, is engraved on stone, and meets it with increased borrowing and extra space. In fact, it is only mine who knows nothing else at all, a respectable president, but to use the financial resources in full measure. It also justifies a complete increase in debt and temporary counter measures, which are specifically aimed at meeting the situation with all the procedures that we have discussed in connection with the budget bill. So I'm not going to go over it again and again, and into the sheep markets and special primes, which are then used by other committees. Finally, we call it an automatic swing regulator, i.e. the benefits and the tax system. In terms of unemployment, we are extending the income-related period and meeting proposed tax changes and tax reductions. It's all coming at a good time to face this down cycle and the deep valley we're in. It will test the quality of the state's budget, and it will be seen in an increase in debt. We look at it in 2025 to make 60% of the gross domestic product, as calculated here on official financial legislation, and that is twice the limit of the rules, or 30%. We were well up to that, and I think that space will benefit us now. But finally, I'd also like to say, a respectable president, that, of course, there is a lot of uncertainty about economic and public financial development and how fast and how much we can adapt to the policies being implemented here. Therefore, the maintenance measures set out are 20231⁄22025, equally divided between the income and the pay button. It is unassigned, but it paints a picture of what is to come. How the capacity for this project develops will be part of the budget of the project and the revision of it equally. There's only two months before we revise this plan, so hopefully we can just give us a little more time to think about it. Some things can happen back then. I hope only the entire nation has been vaccinated, but there are some reports of at least the first dose being delayed. Of course, we're going to get out of this quickly, a respectable president. That's all I can see. But this also hit very fast, and the downturn was very sharp, and the crisis is deep. We see it on all numbers, for the sake of unemployment. In this regard, it is pointed out that we will restore financial law in 2026. If things are going according to the scale set out in financial programs, they can succeed. That's realistic. The fluctuation here made the valley more sharper than in other nations, such as the Northern Nations, because of the importance of tourism for commercial life and currency. There's a big difference. What is not written in this program or budget is that there will be more intensiveefficiency and the restoration of employment. Other factors, which alone provide guidance while financial guidelines are not valid, will then be tested very quickly and will remain stable in all other situations. It's only a few moments away if things go along that we hope for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u136	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing about a financial agenda in a future discussion. I'm one of the people who are written for the Committee of Committees, more part of the budget. The head of the committee, anyway. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, has already reported the committee's opinion. I'm not going to repeat it in my speech, but there are some points I would like to include in this discussion. First, I'd like to say that I think this financial plan is absolutely necessary in the circumstances in which the Icelandic community is in now and the policy that is set in which I think both of them are wise and will benefit us through this difficult period of time that we are going through right now. However, we are considering it, assuming that the overall product of the government could become negative up to 13% of GDP over the next year and may also become negative in 2022. Of course, it is not fun to say this, but it is absolutely necessary in these circumstances because in a crisis like ours today, the role of the State is to take action. It means to raise debts, but for the most limited time, because this is what makes it possible for us to support companies and homes through the crisis. Despite the fact that the taxes are contracting, we maintain all our systems that provide people with services and services in some cases and, of course, employment as well. This is of utmost importance in economic situations, and it may be said that much of it is the State. Official financial issues now are much less important in terms of the best way to get out of the unexpected crisis that has resulted from the pandemic. The aim has been made to bring a competitive society based on intensive economics and powerful human resources. In order for this to be possible, it is emphasised on protecting the health and welfare benefits achieved. The program also invites us to continue on the course we have been about building up a variety of community infrastructures, including the development of the advanced education and health services as well as the emphasis on innovation and research as well as the largeness in transport. At the beginning of the season, it was clear that investments had to be made because we had not been caring for our interiors enough as a community up to that point. In the present situation, the investment level is further added, which will be increased from the beginning. All of this matters so that society will remain good through the crisis as well as for the development of high resistance once the country begins to rise again. The next year, the economy is expected to take over, but we need to see where the epidemic is leading us. We also base on the best projections we have each time, and I think there is reason to be optimistic. But both the financial policies and, as well as the financial laws that we will likely agree on tomorrow or tomorrow evening, are to support the fact that an Icelandic community can get as much out of the crisis of this pandemic as we protect the welfare of society and simply strengthen it where it needs and is necessary. Mr. President. I'm not going to have any more words about this plan, but I'm going to reiterate it and tell you that it's an enormously important and exact reaction to the condition we're going through right now and we'll see out in the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u137	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. I would like to mention just two issues, climate and human rights. Regarding climate, I find it natural to rejoice, as I think all of us, that in the past month, Prime Minister has announced that Iceland is engaged with other European countries in achieving a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. True, I would have liked to see this figure higher, but the European Union was sure to share issues between the progressive catches and the largest coal addicts in Europe, so that 55% was the common result and that Iceland would have something to do with that number. But I mention it because, based on all the policies it affects, it is overexcitedly late in the ass to do this in December 2020. This means that the budget we have in our hands, we aim to achieve a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions instead of 55%, which means that the projections made for the next year are funded for 40% reduction. The plans made for the next five years in a financial program are the old 40 percent. It's perfectly normal that things change and ambition increases. In fact, there is a separation in the Paris Treaty that requires ambition on a regular basis, but the government should have made this updated number in February of this year. In addition to the Paris Treaty, 9◯12 months before each fifth meeting, an updated objective of each Member State should be submitted, and this time came out in February of this year for everything that has led to it, so that it was completely self-limiting and normal that the government had introduced its targets in February 55% of its mobilisation. Thus, Mr. President, it would have been possible to organize budgetary and financial programs for the next five years from that goal rather than old out - of - date goals. As a result, we have a financial program for the next five years, which is already out - of - date when it comes to climate, and it will not be until 2022 that budgets will give evidence of an increase in ambition in 2020. This can be called lost years in the fight against climate change. As for human rights, I'd like to account for the changes I've made in a financial program. The scale mentioned in a financial program is now very small. I propose that 60 million a year be added to the ten causes, the rights of individuals, religion, and the administration of courts. I think it is very important that the council take their stand on this proposal because last week a red flag from the Minister of Justice will appear, which may have great consequences. There was a report on the government's adviser that there had been a loss of plans for a bill for an independent national rights institution where the Agency was not expected in a financial programme. It may be right to attribute the very brief matter and the motive. You see, there has been a long need to establish an independent national rights agency that meets what is called the Paris standard, which is the United Nations guidelines on how such institutions operate so that they can properly secure the help necessary for human rights to be guaranteed in every state. This point has been discussed in the UN General Assembly on the status of human rights in this country. This assessment has been made twice, in the course of 2011◯2012 and in the other hand, in 2016-2017, and at the last, when a report to the council and in reply to the United Nations, said that the Ministry of State had prepared a bill and was working on setting up this organization. Then came a babb to the boat after election in 2017. It seems then that the matter was in the hall of the first season. It may not have been of interest to the Minister who led the Ministry during the two years to submit the case, but just in the case of key exchange at the Ministry of Justice 2019, these plans for the bill for the Independent National Human Rights Agency were put forward in a court of agreement with the aim of providing for the Council for that fall of 2019. It's not just because Iceland's assessment of the United Nations report on the rights of human rights requires such an institution. This is also one of the things the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People needs to do. It is mandatory in the United States that there is a country's own organization to ensure the rights of disabled people, as 2 mg. Thirty-three. The agreement on the rights of disabled people. Then there may be a third factor that specifically calls for such an institution to exist and be the most powerful. Granted, there is rarely a greater risk of human rights than in times of crisis, which we may be going through in the years ahead, and hence the establishment of the Agency. The next UN assessment of the status of human rights here on earth is to be carried out in the year 2021 servant22022, and it would be good for Iceland to say that this country has already approved a bill and even an independent human rights agency. What could not be considered, however, was that a minister of justice referred to a lack of financial rights and financial rights that simply could not have established a human rights institution. Naturally, a minister should suggest this in his financial and financial sectors so that this institution could be established, but he did not. Therefore, I suggest that the council add the $60 million that the Ministry expected to need a business because if the Minister is not going to provide funds to protect the basic human rights of the people of the country, the Council as the financial authority at least can.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u138	Mr. President. Of course, it is far past this discussion, and it is not just a matter of the fact that we are living under the unique conditions we all know but that this morning we were given bad news that vaccinations might delay and that there would be a longer challenge for the disease - related reasons. Under such circumstances, these circumstances may undermine the important matters involved in a financial budget. In these last days before Christmas, I'm going to focus on one subject in particular, which is the cause of older citizens. What seems to be obvious is that older citizens, on the one hand, and on the other, seem to be dealing with such a serious lack of financial resources that it is, in a sense, a systemlike angle to the government's funds. I'm going to point this out in what follows. Of course, this is mainly a matter of making donations from government funds for social security and, on the other hand, for the nursing and residence homes of older people. First, to consider how far it is going with the failings that are often discussed here and in the community, social and social payments of social insurance to those who enjoy it, whether because of age, disability, or rehabilitation, make it so urgent that they are really amazed. Mr. President. I directed a question to the highest level. Social Affairs Minister on these failings where I asked how many non-employed insurance pensions were lost from employment, due to payment on pension people, and the income of non-employers and pension payments. The answer is at Council 842 at the 150th legislature, i.e. last year, and the figures are based on 2018. That's where even the two of them come from. until this income reduces the payment on social security at tens of billions. For example, it is stated that the pension fund pays by sensibilities in nursing pensions reduces the tax of over 34 billion, and the payment for micro-energy pensioners from social security reduces them to 9 billion. We're talking about some very high numbers. When all these impairments come together, we are talking about some 55 billion. The biggest number on it is the one I've mentioned in the past, which is a decrease in income, or a debt from a pension fund. We should remember that the payments made from a pension fund are based on pay paid while people are in their working years and are put together on the other hand by the payment of an employee and a paypayer. Let's take a look at the story, Mr. President. First of all, social security is deeply rooted in Icelandic society. We can mention two dates, 1936, and 1946, and then 1969, when the general pension system that we know was established. It was then thought to add to the social security that can be traced back to 1946 or 1936. Looking back, we see that at that time, 1969, when the pension fund was set up on the basis of collective agreements, it occurred under very difficult circumstances and realized that there was no compensation. This was the time in which men were dealing with a recession on the one hand and a fall in foreign markets. Then money from social security was said to be what was called basic pensions. In 1971 a new category of income insurance was added. It was designed for those with the lowest income. Not everyone got it. If people made money, she was affected. For some 40 years, however, Mr. President was viewed as having a basic life insurance policy as an unchanging amount of money. The recent development of history is that in 2009, in the financial collapse that took place here, a relief order was adopted by the two categories of government then established, convergences, and left greens to cut down the basic pension. This was a temporary emergency, and the decline fell four years later, 2013. The next step is by law No. 9/2017, for the change in social security law, was made that a special change in pension due to mandatory job-related pension funds was required. This is naturally a great change from what had been for decades. From the time these laws went into effect, which was March 1, 2017, expenses from mandatory pensions have reduced 45% of pensions, which were first more than 25,000 dollars. a month, but this reference level was then raised to 100,000 dollars. per month. - No, Mr President, I'm sorry, but I'm talking about earning money for a living. This amount, $25,000. in a month on account of the payment of pension funds, it has been since the date that these laws went into effect on March 1, 2017. So it was decided that every payment from a pension fund of more than 25,000 dollars would be paid. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. President. The project to record this decline of payment violates the promise made for decades in Iceland and continued unfashionable until this temporary change was made in 2009 because of a financial breakdown. Since 2017, this has been relatively new. That, of course, is a very serious intervention. Actually, the fundamental structure that includes a three - sided system, which is first in social security, secondly compulsory pensions, and third, special savings. The overall insurance system is just pulled out, despite the fact that the pensions should come in more. Ever since the pension fund was set up with collective agreements on May 19, 1969, it never came seriously to the conclusion that the pension industry was reducing public insurance basics. And when this is checked, as indicated in the answer to the highest. Social Affairs Minister to ask me what money is talking about this impairment, we're looking at tens of billions, not more or less. That means that the promise given there is unrecognized. On the contrary, a government fund is really completely dependent on taking to heart a considerable amount of money from people they thought were entitled to because of their rights in a pension fund. That's why I'm allowed to say, Madam President, that the government fund is fundless in this respect. He is picking up money there that violates the promise given to people, and he was on hand for decades until recently. This might have a lot, a lot more words than because of the amount of time I've been through, I can't stay on this important subject anymore. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the fact that people are confronted with what is called a very high perimeter tax. When combined, this decrease in pension payment rate, this 45%, and then income tax, is shown by Árnason Ragnar's recent opinion that people are facing a perimeter tax of 73%, i.e. Singles, but people up to 65%. It means that this group of people is made up of much more taxation and money abuse than other people. It is pronounced on the part of Ragnar's Árnason that even for at least certain groups, i.e. who earn the lowest, if the yield of the wages in the pensions be altogether negative. I'd like to draw attention to you, Madam President, that when we're talking about the interest of older people, the basic levels of social security pay are reduced from the level of pay. In this regard, I would like to refer specifically to the financial hearings of 2021. Then says the author, Finnur Birgisson, a social security expert with the permission of a president: It is an irresistible fact that the basic values of TR pensions have been falling back in recent years. This has occurred despite the fact that in the 69th Article of Social Security Act it is mandatory to consider the development of pay on annual decisions on changes to social security levels. This is logical with figures and numbers. You can find this information on the II Parliamentis website. My wife and I would like to give a brief consideration to the other elements I mentioned at the outset, which are the homemates. Then I quote the comments of an enterprise's organization in welfare services on the issues we address here, financial programmes. It says regarding the subject area, nursing and day - care habits, with permission of presidents: ▪ Then, the main factors are that these supporting health systems are not specifically addressed at government health policy. In this review, there is brief evidence that in a financial program it is not sufficient to ensure the management ground of nurses and day-wagers who are already in business as well as the operating ground for new space. This is supported by lack of strength on the basis of the institutions. This is not taken into account by the growth and management of day - to - day resorts, it is not a financial charge because of the increase in nursing weight, and the stress of maintaining the requirement is under way. By permission of the president, the review says: ▪ As in this case, SFV makes serious comments to the financing of the topic field (s). 25 As it is presented in the financial program, it is encouraged by governments and members of the general body to reevaluate it. In this review, the president's permission states: It is necessary to establish a financial strategy [...] policy modeling into the topic area of No. 25 is lacking, and the government does not have a vision of the role and service stage in nursing homes and day - to - day living. The funding of the financial programme must be reviewed on the topic field of No. Twenty-five as a whole. As with the government covenant, more money has to be given in support of any existing business that already exists and that falls under the topic field. The budget for the new objectives and measures proposed in the programme must also be reviewed. Madam President. This means that when we're dealing with cases related to the implementation of older people and others who enjoy social security and that we're living in a serious budget. I'll let me call it a systematic angle to the government fund. The budget presented here suggests that the government of Independence Class, Front Class, and Left Green will not improve the rate of older citizens in the coming years. Of course, it's very unfortunate, Madam President, but the financial messages in the current budget are quite clear in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u139	Madam President. I come up here in a second speech, where I was unable to attend a few important points that must be made and can be viewed as the continuation of my first talk. In the past, it has been observed that the government has chosen the means to keep the government out of all preparations and policies for action when the virus epidemic started. Instead, she has stressed the importance of introducing her plans to a beautiful press conference. Then she has chosen and would probably forget the rich emphasis that was put on increasing consultation with the General Assembly in the Constitution, of course, then and the treaty has at least one. To this end, the forget of the mind falls into a coma. It can be found very few if there are any signs that the proposals of the government have made their way into the government's case. Certainly, and it must not be denied, the initials in occasional cases have greatly improved in the affairs of the council. The committees have made many good adjustments, and the government has not left its mark. Admittedly, it would have rushed and benefited by ensuring full political consultation at all levels. So does the budget and financial agenda now for the final payment here at the council. Madam President. The budget does not vary over how to master the government's business over the next few years and years. However, it shows that the annual maintenance of some 43 billion will be 2,23,2025. That, however, is completely unexplained. There are no examples of things we know about. The number 43 billion seems to be almost some sort of mixed-up size for the plan to work out. That's bad. Under such circumstances, it is very important to examine carefully all government affairs, where to do better, how to make more use of the money. This examination must begin immediately so that it can be started as soon as the virus storms start. Each of us agrees to do things well and to render good service, and the results can be achieved by many means and will vary according to what is involved. In our restoration, we are convinced that there is much more to be observed. We should not be afraid to ask ourselves, " What is the Kingdom assignment? ' Is everything that the State and the public are dealing with absolutely necessary? If that is absolutely necessary, we can ask ourselves: " Is it necessary for the State or public servants to do so? Or is it possible to care for such projects by personal management? Even it is possible to wonder whether they can be dealt with by personal management, which, as with many examples, the State has a bearing on the cost of something or everything. in the health care sector. This is an example in which private business is a significant part of that service, but it could be so much more than that, and there are many opportunities. Of course, there will always be many nuclear functions and other activities that most of us agree that should be released from the public and that there is no debate about it. But we must be reluctant to look at these things carefully and to act on what can benefit all of us. We feel that this is one of the bigger and more difficult subjects of the coming years that needs to be taken firmly. Madam President. I would like to maintain that the wealth of state is in many ways successful in international comparison. The debt ratios had been reached, and the currency response was huge when the virus was taken out of the country. Hence, it is both correct and reasonable to conclude that the sequence of events that began in February of this year was in full force. Madam President. I've done a few basics in my talks today on the financial agenda we feel we have to deal with in the years to come and must be able to solve successfully. I have named the crown and its military costs, its fluctuations and high interest levels and the importance of the euro and its involvement in the European Union in this context. I have noted that while growing in the country is lower than domestic interest rates, the borrowing of the state is risky because of gangs and that the interest costs in the country are rising. All of this leads to a much higher proportion of growth as compared to national production than in other European countries. I have also named the administrations of the government and that the government's budget has become self-sustained because our warnings were ignored and ignored by the impressions of economic issues that most of the light of other than the government and the government groups. Finally, once again we need to stress that the key to our success is a powerful global - minded life that can drive a good but constant economy in the long run, thus leading to a powerful welfare system. In this regard, we need to cherish innovation, technology, and science, and think long - term because this is what we must build for the future in order to achieve the goals that we all want to achieve, so that we all want to achieve greater success and prosperity. But for all of this to be possible, economic stability and destiny must be created. To that end, we want to work on wood.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u140	Madam President. This has been the subject of a discussion on the financial program in the years 2021/2025 that is planned to reevaluate and then reevaluate it at the second March, so that we are in a very special situation that we now discuss the financial program because it is above brought on by the worst and the most difficult economic prospects that we have had to face and in situations where unemployment is, unfortunately, in historically high. Unemployment figures have not been higher for decades, and unfortunately they are more likely to get worse. Severe conditions exist in the workplace, with the prospects ahead of winter and long into the next year. While reports of vaccines and vaccinations raise all hope in us, it is not necessarily in hand or a magic solution to the economic crisis that we will soon bite from the needle with long after the vaccinations. As says, by the permission of a president, the financial board is expected to double the debt for the next four years. Of course, this is not an isolated example. Iceland's debt increases are consistent with the trend around the world as a result of response to the economic consequences of the Korean epidemic. Debts as a percentage of land production over the official financial objective of the current year, which is understandable, are interesting how early the commitment was broken, which was in the early part of the year when it was replaced with a recent revision of financial policy. It is also worth pauseing at the words of a financial Council in its review that although there is no significant or serious concern about sustainable debt, it is suggested that the increase in debt cannot be limitless and the public's tilt has to be stopped at the right time. In its review, the financial adviser has a measure of concern that the planned program allows for the continuation of specific measures to result in a negative outcome due to the underlying failure between revenue and cost growth. In other words, the implementation of measures published during the latter part of the programme may not be sufficient to stabilise the survival process. Then there is a matter of pondering, not to mention, the degree of inadequacy in the government's proposal to make money, including through more green taxation or tax returns to the more prosperous community groups, which are not the members of society that will suffer the most in the economic crisis today. Madam President. You can see that the economic hardships caused by the Korean epidemic will be affected by social differences. National research, data, and figures and warnings from international institutions testify to this fact. I have previously quoted David Malpass's statement, the bank manager of the World Bank, and I will do it again, but his warning and the bank predict that in 2021, about 110◯150 million people will fall into a state of poverty as the result of the economic crisis caused by the Korean epidemic. It is a frightening projection that the nations must take seriously and, unfortunately, respond with all force, Madam President, to show national research and research that Iceland is not a exception to the risk that the crisis of Covid-19 could enhance inequities and greatly fuel the social isolation of certain communities. Three groups of Icelandic society are now more precarious and are more likely to become more complicated than other groups of the workforce, thus being in greater danger than others becoming poor. These are women, foreign - born people, and young people. So the fourth group, which is in grave danger of falling into a bitter poverty trap, can be extremely difficult to recover. The figures prove this, as there has been a collapse in the sector of which these community groups are the largest. People of foreign backgrounds have been a very large part of those who have been employed in tourism for the past few years, but the status of people in the trade, as we all know, has been rapidly deteriorating in the past few months. Women's employment initiatives have also been greatly summed up by Covid-19 as shown by the Habitat Room. Women have done more than men do in the ministry, but this crisis is very difficult for them. In addition, national studies show that homework has a greater impact on women in labour markets than men. They are more likely than men who now work at home to care for more responsibility for household chores, which suffer from their productions. Women in the educational community, according to surveys, have provided significantly fewer paragraphs in Covid-19 than men in the educational community. Today, young people are also in a more delicate position. It is a high percentage of young people in the ministry. Unemployment statistics also show much difference between young people's unemployment and older ones. Sadly, this development is another evidence of the development that has been going on long before the pandemic, which is that both the income gaps and the property gaps between young people and older ones have improved dramatically over the years and decades. Thus, the numbers of generations are continuing to rise, while Covid-19 will be watered at the mill of such evolution if we do not get the edge of this disastrous trend. Madam President. Unlike the labor markets for the collapse of the Icelandic banks in the fall of 2008, unemployment had increased in the last year, 2019, and long - term noncooperative work, i.e. individuals who have been without employment for more than a year have been increasing. Last September, 18,000 people were out of work, of whom 3,000 were long - term. At the same time, the number of young and young people who do not have a job or a school education has increased. Clearly, clear action is needed to avoid the need for unemployment to bring further legal problems for the household, poverty, and increased inequities with the related costs for society. It is important to remember that 40% of the world's population is unemployed. This group is in part in worse circumstances because much of that group lives in rented houses and has not had resources comparable to owners of housing, e.g. Remuneration, and in the same way, do not benefit from a decrease in interest on the mortgages. The most effective way to support jobseekers is to increase the basic improvements in unemployment insurance as well as extend the improvement period to meet the observed increases in long-term non-employment periods. Sadly, though, although this group is 40% unemployed, no specific measures by the government are available to this group, people of foreign background. Madam President. This is hardly necessary, but it is clear that it must always be done, that there is a lesson to be learned from the last crisis and the negative experience of the nations that attacked the cuts and weaknesses of social infrastructure. The current economic breakdown must not be met by a surgical cuts to the government or the obtaining of a charge of our operating systems, such as the health system. First, 34 billion dollars must be replaced. annual loss of income as a government fund has been caused by an untimely government taxpayers by otherwise earning money because the current income base is not sustainable. Second, there are a lot of employees in public service under intense stress because of the pandemic and who had been subjected to a lot of work loads because of a long term maintenance and cutting requirement following the economic collapse of over a decade ago. Third, because of the pandemic and because of its impact on the physical and mental health of the public, there is a high need for services in the health and social systems. We need to strengthen our safety rather than engage in cuts and maintenance measures that all of us know will deepen and prolong the crisis. So we must meet these contractions by means of public funds. This means that the State's debt will be allowed to increase rather than exceed 59% in 2025, but that goal is referred to as the requisite action on the part of the government of the government of the total population of 3,35440 billion a year for the period of 2023 to20225. If economic recovery is slower than that, the need is increased, and there is a real risk that such a scene could become more severe. And then all of us need to keep on the watch and guard that well - being and basic services will be used, not as temporary, but as requisite action in government matters, but as a result of a debt that will be substantiated on the basis of a strong resistance. Madam President. I'd like to step aside from business because it's more important than ever that there's a specific policy to be developed in this country, a clear policy of employment. It is essential in present circumstances to support the economic benefits and challenges, not just for Covid-19, but also for the challenges of global warming and technological change. Madam President. It is clear that government funds are experiencing a massive drop in income as a result of the economic impact of the spread of Covid-19. Therein comes, unfortunately, not only the economic situation but also political decisions to change the tax system in a way that the state's income will be, as I said earlier in my talk, 37◯38 billion dollars. lower next year. This is a threat to the fact that the tax system changes are never allowed to reduce the capacity of government funds to support welfare services and the necessary structure of community infrastructure. Therefore, I believe and have previously said in the General Assembly of Congress that under the circumstances now the government will be able to look with real and comprehensive ways in which we can obtain the state's funds in this situation to form a super-pay tax, a high - income step on capital taxes, a wealth tax, and, of course, a fair payment for resource use, as well as taking a much more bold step on so - called green taxes and green charges on delinquency. That's where we have to start forming a clear direction. I also criticize the plans for the change in capital income taxes set out in the budget bill, which includes the reduction of state funds by 2.1 billion a year, and it makes a difference, Madam President, so that a tax reduction to capital owners should not be in the foreground under existing conditions. It is now the government's task to ensure survival and especially in the three most vulnerable groups that suffer the greatest trauma of the Covid-19. Therefore, it is so important to explain and sharpen these professional policies and issues because in the last economic crisis a decade before the collapse, people were enabled to educate themselves out of the crisis, which was an extremely good and important procedure, and a good decision. But what was waiting for that added study had not yet been developed, and there we must also have our educational and professional policies talk. When we want to encourage people to take advantage of this opportunity and to grow in experience and knowledge and educate themselves from a recession, we must also create a professional policy at the end, for the results have been that in the past decade unemployment has been the most common among the missing academics, and has been in the past few years, to identify, create, and implement a real - life policy for people with increased education. And then we need to map our community, where we want to advance, where we want educated people to do some work, for example. Changes in technology, energy sector or green sector. There are some exciting things we can emphasize, but these systems must talk to each other, i.e. The job policy and education system, because in a job crisis it's a challenge to create and implement a job policy. One of the biggest challenges for the next few years is the effects of technological development on a job market. A report by the Ministry of Presidency on the Fourth Industrial Revolution noted that individuals with little skills are at the highest risk of being adversely affected by the technological changes of the coming years. There will be funding to follow the analysis made of challenges to prevent future problems. There is also the opportunity to educate people to cope with and deal with the challenges that we will face after the end of Covid-19, in the form of technological changes. In a financial programme, shapes for the workforce are offered along with forecasting the need for professional skills. And it's a good and long time. For years, it is good to see such preaching on the shape of a workforce when it comes to this. This is to form something that ASI has been called on for a long time. It is also the experience of other countries that we must always compare with and apply in times of trial. It has been shown that the importance of investing in the right education and skills, not just during school years, but over the entire age of work, pays many times back for us as a community, for individuals, and also for us to face the tragedy that strikes us, as well as the challenging circumstances. I'd also like to mention in terms of the work market and the professional policy what you would like to see in artists'references to financial policies, plans, and budgets, where artists remind you that there is a greater need for art and art education. In this context, I remind you of the need for a solution to Iceland's list of housing problems and to start building, and there's also a song for us to make use of the crisis we face. However, these are not unique circumstances. This is also evident in other lands. Finally, Madam President, I'd like to mention the gender issues. The most serious comments made by the Alliance of the state's personnel and in addition to the investment and building initiative depend on its gender effect. Some 85% of the jobs that develop in the implementation of the investment campaign are men's work, and the effort will therefore add to gender discrimination, as shown in the budget bill. In that way, increased contributions to a competitive fund will benefit men rather than women. In addition, the financial bill estimates that increased support for research and development costs will result in the remainder of a gender-hall situation. Significantly, women's unemployment was more recent than men and women's unemployment rates have also increased faster than men because of the pandemic effect. And unfortunately, the conclusion is that the government's investment and building initiatives get a function of equality ratings. At the same time, a number of government cases involving women in the greater part of their work are a high standard of management, which means that women who serve in public service to children, the elderly, and the sick are under great pressure. We need to improve this, and we also need to keep in mind that women are more likely to become ill because of stress. Under these circumstances, the Society's Feminian budget is in charge of the budget and financial programme, which refers to the sex - stroke of the government's operation to cope with the effects of the pandemic. Women are a greater proportion of those who have lost their jobs and require that sex and equality principles always be guided from the start to ensure that measures outlined in financial and financial programmes do not promote discrimination but contribute to an increase in equality and justice in Icelandic society. Madam President. I'm running out of time, but at the end, I'd like to remind you that we have to protect those of the most vulnerable members of society, but we also need to pay attention to green, valuable jobs and keep our commitments in climates, thus making the best of ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u141	President. I'd like to get into the 17th Environment matter for a little bit, in my second speech. The financial structure of the budget provides more accurate interpretation of the government's financial policies. Cost analysis of funds is one of the best for this topic field. It contains, for example, Talk about improving the duration of a natural event with abbreviated response time and improved monitoring security, 60 million there. 115, 213, 400, 12, 80, 10, there's a lot of numbers here and there. 1,600 million. K. Eskiskönskund, Sigleund, and Sufficiency are being carried out, hurrying up existing projects to ensure the security of the population against the surface waters, many of the most important, efforts in rural cartels of 800 million. The problem I described in my speech on cost estimates, on the basis of a benefit analysis, with regard to optional analysis, is crystalline in this topic field. When the first operation plan was completed, there were no costs, no benefits analysis, or anything. It was not that we were told whether the plan of action would bring us the results that governments were expected to meet in various agreements. An updated plan was a little more accurate. Not all measures of cost or profit - making were measured, but quite a few. This is an example of how we are expanding toward reforming the financial process. This is actually the one subject field where you can find some evidence to support why these sources, where they are going, and what the results will be. True, this lacks a choice. But all right, smaller steps at one time are more positive, and the cost-benefit analysis is certainly the more important thing. The choice of quality checkering will later come up with a choice. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that good things are being done in some places in financial programs. But doing good things is not all that is to be done. The answer to the questions really needs even better: Why? Why does it cost so much or so little? Why doesn't it cost less? Why does this not cost more if the result or effect of the procedure is less than expected? Is that not possible? Is it not possible to finance this project more, etc.? Then it's the effect of this. It belongs, for example. to increase the proportion of bicycles and active travel practices and the measure of whether this result is achieved with certain tax appeals for electric bikes and so on, i.e. how many such wheels are moved into the country. That doesn't necessarily work out. I hope so, and probably to some extent, but it's hard to guess how much use it is, to have an informed guess. This is an example of food that will have to be carefully monitored to see how closely it is. We want to keep these accurate, but we know that precise numbers are difficult to achieve in the beginning of a process when there is nothing else to be built on. It is not so difficult to meet all my demands for better financial plans. I don't demand much more than people try. The figures can be inaccurate, say with boundaries ranging from 50 to 100 million for projects in place of exactly 67 million, or something like that. To have about The correct figures in the overall context make the results quite accurate. It is very likely that we do not engage in one project or overdoing in another, but in total, we will be quite accurate in the context of several hundred billion. So I'm not too worried about the precision to begin with, but as we work more with these projects, get knowledge of the management system, and use these tools, the plans will be more accurate and better. What I see especially happening in this process is when it comes to the benefits of a project. With current conditions, e.g. Compared to an out - of - date bridge or something like that, there are certain costs of maintenance, traffic charm, environmental impact, and so on. If we build a new bridge that will surely cost a little while, then we have lower maintenance costs, lower environmental impact, and the like work at the expense of the old bridge. Finally, the cost of the old arrangement will be greater than the benefits. It shows us in black, maybe five or ten years later, that we're in the plus with the project. Then you can count on the project as a means of maintenance because, in the main context, this is really a major account example. We have a long list of services that we now perform, with a certain right effect, at the expense of democracy and the like. This work and this service are required to do so. The irony is that we do not know how much each project costs. We know about that. The cost of a project under a single institution is greater than the cost of each project. When we do not know what each task will cost us, we find it very difficult to make things more efficient because we do not know where to start. We do not know what is the future cost of an out - of - date computer system or an out - of - date bridge. If we had that in front of us, it would tell us that here we need to concentrate, here would be an opportunity to do something different that would save us this cost in the next few years. When we don't have it in front of us, the politics in handling financial programs and financing will always be lousy. Always. Once we're through with the cost of lunch, when we've got the remuneration, we can argue about what benefits we're supposed to take into account. It's, for example. can be estimated from a more or less based basis than or equal to anything, therefore the environmental impact. Or vice versa. It is a political decision to say: Here we have something that has a positive effect on the climate, the other has a positive effect on e.g. edification or traffic congestion or something like that. Choosing a solution is a political decision. One group may feel that the basis is more important while another category considers the environmental policy more important than the third category says: Maybe we can make a mixture of both and achieve some common result that may not be quite as effective in environmental matters and not quite as effective in rural or similar? That's where the politicians get more into the game. If we don't have this assessment of what views are behind the benefit analysis and analysis of the effects, we'll never get there in politics. Then we're always arguing about the big box that says the projects of this institution are up to 700 million. Let's take the New Creation Center, we're not talking about the individual projects of this institution and the effects of it, we're not talking about how we can do special projects in that institution better and more efficient, more successful, because we don't see what the cost is of it or how it works, of course. It's something we can do too. There may be something going on that will bring us benefits, but there may be other factors that will bring us even greater benefits. If we could, for example. move a project into a common unit, a new size balance, or something like it would make a political decision about such unity very obvious. But without it, there is always something to criticize, as it were, of the failure of the diagnosis at the time of the decision. The new creation center had a set cost of government management, finance managers, and so on, working on all the projects there. There have been excerpts that when all the projects had been cut down, divided, and put into the university and anywhere, the administrative expenses of the projects were ignored. The amount of money on the project will be transferred, but no extra expenses will be paid by the new agency responsible for it. It is some kind of magic, as it was shown in response to what. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. There's some kind of government decision that just isn't acceptable. We must first have the premise, not afterwards, as it were. In the National Court case. Unable to obtain follow - up comments, as has been repeated. We need clear support for government decisions. It's a simple duty, and it's also only good management. It's a professional way of working that way. It has a shortage, but in the 17th topic field, it's the best indicator so far. I simply urge people to do similar things for every subject. Although I may have sounded very judgmental in my earlier talk, it's because I think it's serious. But it doesn't take much to fix this. These are not more serious than those words, so it should be easy to fix them. And because it's easy but not done, I get frustrated. This is simply a small incentive to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u142	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the adjustment proposed here in the 3rd district. This is an adjustment proposal made by the Economic and Business Committee of the United States. It is simple in that it is opening up a potential for an operator to postpone up to two pay days on the local bill and insurance bill next year. It's like we cleaned up here this spring. In line with this, the bill's headline is also suggested to change as it is in this adjustment process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u143	Mr. President. This is one of the biggest cases we're gonna take care of. That's 5,000 billion bucks. Budget plan. In it, we can see the future of this government if it ever comes back. What is that prospect? Consider again the figures, for they tell their story. If we look at evolution, the contribution to innovation and research over the next five years - and notice - will decrease by 30%. The increase in environment to be the priority of this government is over the next five years 7.7%. Is a green revolution 7.7%? The funds that go to the topic field for nursing and rehabilitation services will take place in the next five years. In the next five years, culture and art have a 14% reduction. Transport has a 30% reduction. Note these key categories. There's a lot of lawsuits that get raised. Well, it's not like all the mercenaries have a shrink, but these are all the lawsuits left behind, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] This is the vision of the future that we live in if this government is to be found again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u144	Mr. President. Here we vote on a very important matter in the present time and the future on how we will manage our financial affairs and continue to have our community strong when the pandemic begins or when it begins to recover. Here it is set aside the government's affairs so that the government can take on debt so that all our systems, our welfare system, our educational system, can work in these difficult times. Hence, in times of trial, there is an important and sound economy and a positive prospect.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u145	President. We're about to vote for an out-of-date financial programme. In fact, the next year's budget has been set up, and then there will be a new budget in April, which is before the years have passed. In the meantime, the government has announced its intention, for example. to have increased constriction in climate, up to 55%. It's not part of this financial program, e.g. so that all of this is a highly meaningless financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u146	Mr. President. In spite of the wonderful promise of something else, the debt of the state's funds is a source of great concern and will continue to rise in the years ahead. In particular, economic developments have been reduced by new reports that less vaccines come to the country during a new year than expected. Economic growth rates may be lower, and resistance is prolonged. It is clear in this program that the government groups are not going to improve the rate of older citizens. Money and financial programs are wrapped in elections ahead. The financial impact of the virus epidemic will be prolonged by a large debt of state funds. Economic growth should be very high if it is not to be a result of cutbacks and tax losses. That economic growth is not predictable, Mr. President. This plan lacks credibility and interaction with financial policy and money policy is low.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u147	A respectable president. In recent years, this government and government budget have been characterized by several factors. First of all, I'm going to give you a huge amount of education expenses. We've never given as much into college, college. Another thing I'd like to mention here is innovation, research and evolution. The way out of this government is Covid. That the government's going to come here and try to minimize it is not credible. We all know that the clean debt of state funds has gone from 20% of land production to over 60%. Why can we do this? Because the government of government has been particularly good in recent years. That's why we're getting the people out of Covid by using our financial resources wisely.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u148	A respectable president. In this financial program, the government's policy of exerting government funds while the effects of the Korean virus are on the Icelandic economy, and then it aims for sustainable financial gain when we have made it through that time. This requires considerable sacrifices, and these will be changed times. Here, for example. told us that we cannot carry on with real - life growth in government expenditures as we have seen in recent years, and we are very much dependent on receiving a powerful economic growth following this year's contraction. That is why the government puts so much emphasis on putting money into research and innovation and supporting businesses through the most difficult times, so we can resist when we need it most. Without economic growth, without vigorous resistance, we have a considerable challenge to restore our ends and secure the sustainability of public funds. That's why it's very strange to hear people come up here and call out that we really add to the expense gate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think people just need to realize what time is waiting for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u149	V.E.G. President. We're here to vote for a national financial programme of 2211⁄22025. First, we need to examine it in the context of the expansion that has taken place during the term. There has been an increase in every topic area, and this is a permanent contribution. It also carries a very powerful interview out of the circumstances in which we live. It keeps the actions we choose in budgets tomorrow. It is only then true that the extent of the future is largely uncertain, and it will be a challenge to regain balance in government matters. It's called to stop the debt collection of 2025 and restore the budget of 2026. That is what this government budget contains, and it proclaims a powerful resistance, first and last.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u150	Mr. President. I come back here because I feel like they're actually wrong. The numbers speak for themselves. We'll talk about the development of state expenditures in 20211⁄225. If we look, for example. in a word at the highest. In this five-year period, high school Ministers have a 7% reduction, 7% decline. [[Up front.]] It's that reduction. [[Up front.]] It is the prospect of the future. Let's take a look at college. Who do you think is the raise in five years? 2.8%. Knows how to do it. Well, the Minister of Education isn't even a percentage bill? It's a 14% drop in culture. Compare comparable things, that's all I ask. This discussion shows that the highest. Ministers and senators need to read their own data. Do the senators know that innovation funding is reduced by 30% from 2021/2025? I'm not so sure they know. This discussion shows that we need a national economy to produce data and statistics for us. We're always arguing about some numbers. There's no way to argue about numbers. [[The president calls.]] The facts are universal. That's why I'm so tired of this conversation when people say everything they're saying, and they don't have anything to do with the numbers and the data. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u151	Mr. President. In fact, there are two things I would like to say about these financial arrangements in times of uncertainty. First, it is that the epidemic has shown us how important it was to attack the structure that this government decided to attack at the beginning of the season of the social infrastructure, health, education, and other infrastructures, and what these infrastructures all have proved their strength through this tremendous effort. However, this year's financial, financial, financial, and financial arrangements will cause us to ask quickly from the bottom and make sure that the great gift we are facing will not harm an Icelandic community. To do this, we use the government funds with such great force. I think it's the perfect economic policy, Mr. President, and I think it will be a success for the Icelandic community and the Icelandic public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u152	Mr. President. Here we are going to vote on a financial program that describes the government's policy for the next month and of course, if her dream becomes realized that the good cooperation across political spectrum will continue, this is the policy that the government is going to work on. During our restoration, we have identified a number of related factors. I'd like to say something about the government. I'd like to say something about next year's prayers. We need to consider some factors that involve currency and the expense of our currency. There is not much more to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u153	No, no, no, no. We're running out of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u154	Yeah, that's right, because the time is over, and it's not much of this because it's kind of like this, I don't want to use the word of disaster. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u155	A respectable president. I must direct my words to the case of the government opposition, i.e. I'm here to speak to the United States of America. Hv. paritaprevir Ástrúst Ólafur Ágústsson is very well aware that we have already made large contributions to high school. Real increases in every student are enormous. What I'm sorry about in politics is when politicians come here and realize that they're not giving a real picture of the situation. We can see that. All of us can clearly see what a government fund is trying to get through this. We're getting our hands on culture. We're getting a hold of education. The donations in innovation have never been greater, I'm telling you right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u156	A respectable president. In this public discourse, the big picture is simply this: What has been done in recent years is that seven good years were new to prepare for seven lean years. That's a reasonable way of handling things. It does not necessarily mean that we are in a position to support what is being held up today and invest in the future. Those who speak out here are the same people on the other side of Hope, who collected these seven good years and therefore don't have much of the time, and for us, there's a really bad story. [[The president calls.]] They're in no position to criticize this place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u157	A respectable president. This is one of the examples in which both are right and still succeed in arguing. Yes, there has been an increase in contributions to a number of problems and causes, but before the epidemic, there was a financial reduction in donations in various topic areas, e.g. innovation. So yes, it is true. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson says, and yes, what the government groups say is true. Yet, they are able to fight. It's political as if it's the most boring thing in the world, since people are moving into a narrow angle and arguing about it, but they don't look at the overall context. Both sides are right, but no more arguing about it. [[That would be news.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u158	Mr. President. On the contrary, I fear against the highest word. Prime Minister, that we fail to achieve what we need in the long future with this financial plan. There are many things that are done well, but here are the wrong priorities. We have everything to do with increasing the variety of jobs and providing support for innovation, that we use our brains better, and that, of course, we would have to put much more into innovation, education, and, of course, climate. And because here was speaking the highest. The minister of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson that seven good years have been spent preparing for seven thin years would be the highest. On the other hand, a minister may be talking to people who did not enjoy the kindness and who now need to enter even more poverty and crisis in the long years, while on the other side of the Hope Street that has tried to invest in people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u159	Mr. President. Discussing innovations on the part of the day. paritaprevir Ágúst, Ólafur of Ágústsson, is the way I wanted to come up here just to correct her. Of course, it does not take a national economy to see the injections that this government has provided in research and innovation. We've put it to work, and there's been a lot of support for that approach, and it's stressed here at the council. The emphasis is obvious, the course is clear, and ambition is great, and this investment is reasonable. We're betting on the individual's intelligence, but fortunately, too, innovation does not stand and falls by the billions of times the state puts in it. Rather, the community's support is multiplied. But it cannot be claimed that this government is cutting down when it comes to research and innovation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u160	Mr. President. Seven lean years, yes, well new. Then something has forgotten to mention specifically the past year, in 2019, where the government had completely lost control of the government's financial resources. There was 70 billion swings at the top. Government. 2019 was a spontaneous year at the highest. A government that could handle money so much. But the other thing, I'd like to say that not everything is bad. During our restoration, we have had complete agreement and support that the State Fund is to be used under these circumstances. Fortunately, we had been living in the best of our lives, that's true, that's the state's debt had come down, so we've had a better chance to do so, but it wasn't because the government's money was in such good shape at the highest level. Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u161	A respectable president. Now it's just that way, and I'll admit it. Agents Logi Már Einarsson and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson have always been very much appreciated by me. In the past, they showed that they are worthy of trust because they felt guilty. When they have a conscience, they feel guilty. They know exactly as it is, there's nothing complicated in this, people can talk about numbers out and south, that if you don't pay down debts when well-eared, I don't talk about when men raise debts when well-earned, you get into trouble when the winds blow differently. They are indirectly responsible for the more important part of the city of Reykjavík, which used... - Honorable President... [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] Yes, now the entire Assembly Hall is going... now go why. Senators who are in the mayor's section of Reykjavík, who's been collecting debts in good health and who's not in this... [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] It is obvious that something is happening here, and there are others who feel guilty. [[The president calls.]] That's fine. The big thing is that, fortunately, we can cope with our expenses because there's something in our funds. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In good health, debt was paid off. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u162	Mr. President. It is true that debt was reduced. It was primarily due to payment from bank stability and profit, and then the outcome was successful. The government, however, did not succeed in handling the necessities of life. [[Take it up: The crown's good.]] She did not manage to reduce the expenses that were now not what I wanted to see, but she could have made money for those expenses. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Instead, she allowed her fatling efforts in the country to continue, so now they are the desperate, the elderly, and the poorest people needed, along with over 20,000 unemployed for the next eight years, to carry the military cost of this journey to the highest level. Secretary of finance. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u163	Mr. President. The climate is our biggest problem, and we will be judged by future generations for the way we react. Now there is an emergency in climates. Antonio Guterres, the chief secretary - general of the United Nations, has demanded that the world state declare this, but the government of Iceland has, unfortunately, failed. When it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we have updated our goals, and that's fine. But we must take more drastic and bold and decisive action. This adjustment is suggested, and I encourage the Senate to accept it as a sign of emphasis and our vision in order to deal with the climate crisis in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u164	A respectable president. This suggestion is a fine price, for the challenge is great. But only 10 billion, do so well, without really knowing exactly whether it needs 10 billion or 15 or maybe 5, it's not an exact job, I think. This is not well explained in the Committee of the 10 billion in what to do. Although I definitely support our success in climate activities, I'm embarrassed to overstep the proposal. I don't think she's clear enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u165	Mr. President. This is where I propose 60 million bucks. annual contributions to establish an independent human rights agency. This is the contribution the Ministry of Justice estimates that such an institution needs. Since the cost of financial planning was not expected, the Ministry abandoned its plans for forming it. If this proposal is approved, the Ministry may cancel. It has taken too long to set up a human rights institution. It is of utmost importance and is not just important to the entire public but is simply an obligation in the Icelandic government to fulfill the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Infirm People. If a financial strategy prevents Iceland from fulfilling its commitments in human rights, then the Senate will simply have to solve the problem here and now, by agreeing to my proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u166	A respectable president. Of course, this financial scheme is in normal harmony with the budget. This shows how we use our Kingdom interests, our fine standing, for many good works. True, it would be good to be able to do even more than we need to realize that we are borrowing money. In those suggestions, there were even some of the above. the growth of transport, making it much closer to the financing of the previous approval of the European Parliament on a transport strategy adopted here by some. It is a fully funded new project for which men at the Council have spoken in connection with waterfronts, for the development of projects at the Covendel, Njardík, and Isafjörður. Significant funds are also being put in place in order to be able to live up to the excellent policy of transport that was approved here. This financial program shows that we can do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u167	A respectable president. I want to come up here and celebrate a lot of good things here. Especially, I'd like to agree with the highest. Transport and rural Ministers on increased transport contributions. It is stated that these are contributions to the port and road measures, based on the issues of the Environment and Transport Committee, as well as contributions for the Egil State of Airports. The strategy for docking has been agreed here before, as was agreed on, as was the port of the village harbor, an enormously important project. We have to get going to invest ourselves in the economic pressures we are in right now, create an increasing environmental employment opportunities, and connect us to the continent. This is therefore of utmost importance, as well as the fulfillment of other means of transportation. I'm celebrating.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u168	Mr. President. I want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you. A full-scale educational committee for careful work on this bill, leading to a wide-scale improvement in the area of equality. This is an overall review of equality laws, and there are very positive and positive changes made both in this bill and in what follows, on the management of equality matters. So I want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank the council, and celebrate the solidarity I see here on the table that shows that equality between genders is no special project, that is a serious matter we should always have in mind; a pandemic and any other situation. Because that's basic. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u169	Mr. President. Here we vote for an important matter for the inhabitants of the country on a wide and wide scale that has produced super-employed electricity up to 60% in many places, in terms of common practice. The way here is still the preferred route, which is long gone and that quickly comes back to those involved. For example, at the end of the year, the Landsnet has requested a reimbursement, which can stop a minister. In that case, it should be kept in mind that this is not the complete equation at all. It is totally unacceptable that it should not be reached until 2025, at first. Lasting rights is setting up one currency for electricity across the country. It is possible, it is a matter of righteousness, and it is a permanent arrangement. To do so, we want work to be done immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u170	Mr. President. One thing can be said about the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who has her priorities straight. This morning the management board proposed to extend the period of unemployment improvements by six months, so the people who are finishing their rights do not have to report to the countryside in a commercial crisis where there is no employment. That action would have cost little more than the operation, and the proposal that governments are now accepting, to reduce the taxes on the richest people in the country. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-17-40.u171	A respectable president. We're here to vote for a nice extension of road law, no. 80/2007, with subsequent changes i.e. subsequent extensions to up to one year The Environment and Transport Committee met with the Ministry, the European Union with the National Society and the Vegas, and they agree on the matter. I will vote this in confidence that the end of the spring council will be a great deal of work and that it will be done, as the stakeholders believe to be practical themselves.
