ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u1	A respectable president. I'd like to acknowledge that I believe that it is very important that the Council could react in this way and allow a minister to react with a violation of local government laws so that local governments can respond to the crisis that exists in society today. I'll support this bill and say yes to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u2	A respectable president. I come up here to thank you for the serious concern of Pirata and me being taken seriously, to respond to them and to the unreceptive warrants that would be given to the Minister to deviate from local government law. I think it's very important to thank you and thank you for the good work that took place on the environment and transport committee. Of course, great progress has been made that now committees and rural governments can begin working with increased telecommunications. We're happy about that too. I especially thank you for listening to and responding to our concerns. How important it is that we talk well and listen to one another at this time!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u3	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize social support for the elderly. The Treaty of the current government from November 2017 shows that it is particularly necessary to strengthen the position of those who are living in Icelandic society. A special assessment of the optimal revenues in the Icelandic population was suggested, recommendations for improvement and follow-up. With reference to the treaty, I appointed a team for the interest of older ones in order to gain a better perspective on the different conditions in which older citizens live. The group was designed to offer suggestions on how to improve the benefits of those with whom they lived. In the staff, representatives of the National Association of the Old Citizens, the Ministry of Economics and Economics, the Ministry of Directors and the Ministry of Health, now the Ministry of Social Affairs. This working group had the analysis, which was then based on the definition of the older population living at lower rates. Based on this analysis, it was felt that the worst qualified members of the elderly were those who had limited social security rights in Iceland due to previous foreign livings, had little or no rights to pay from pension funds, lived solely or almost exclusively on public insurance, or lived in a rented house or a very debt of their own home. The service group felt that more than one of these would likely apply to that part of the elderly and that this group likely lived in very poor poverty. This analysis indicated that the busiest of older citizens living in Iceland were particularly elderly who had not lived long enough in Iceland before 67 years of age to earn adequate pension rights in the social security system. Many of them also have no or no small pension payments from the pension fund, since they have not been working or have only worked around the country. In most cases, these individuals have lived in distant lands, yet they have not earned pension rights there and have so many little or no income to make a living. The basic security network of the local welfare systems is the services and financial support of rural society under local social services laws, and it remains a foundation security network, even though it becomes a law of the bill. Those unable to advance from income are entitled to the financial support of their community in accordance with local community social services laws when their total income is below the limit established by the local community. However, this group of elderly people living in this country is considered to be in urgent need of additional support. This is especially the case with older immigrants and older Icelandic citizens who live here but who have little or no pension rights here. It is considered necessary to improve the favour of this senior population beyond the general financial support of a local community and also that it will be done in a special way outside the social security system. A respectable president. This bill, based on the proposal of the above working group, is suggested to provide additional social support for elderly people living in this country who have no or limited pension rights in this country or abroad and who have little or no income to earn. These groups are considered to have a special need for lasting financial support for their advancement. The bill includes individuals 67 years of age and older who live on this land and stay here permanently. In the case of a foreign citizen, it is condition that they have received an untimely visa in this country, yet it is suggested that they be allowed to deviate from the conditions under special circumstances. The bill does not include cases where housing has been granted on the basis of family unity and when the person desired to cooperate has guaranteed the implementation of the individual. It should be noted, then, that it is not sufficient to have a registered home in order to have this support but also that candidates must stay in this country permanently. If the person lives abroad or plans to stay abroad for more than 90 days continuously or 90 days in each 12 month period, the payment of additional support will fall. If this bill becomes legal, elderly persons who are permanently living in this country but who have little or no pension rights and have little or no income to further their money can obtain special social support from the State in addition to any other income when income is less than a quarter of a month's monthly support at any given time, although it will be $25,000. In general, a payout goal for less money than social security benefits. It is suggested that the maximum monthly budget of additional support can be studied up to 90% of the amount of pension paid under the Social Security Act. Only the applicant is expected to be paid up to 90% of the amount of home remuneration under social assistance laws when applicable. The maximum amount of money to an elderly person who lives in this country but who has no local or foreign pension rights and thus has no income may result in up to 231,110 k. During a month and as single, the amount of money can be studied up to 289,510k. per month. The suggestions that are based on are that of a negative model. The routes used in neighboring countries, particularly Norway, were considered to strengthen the development of this group of elderly people as well as the experience they had with them. However, some of this is going further, e.g. is not suggested to include a mate's income when the applicant deals with additional support, such as a partner. is being done in Norway, and it also applies to the financial assistance of your local community. At the beginning of 2017, significant changes in social security pensions were made, with benefits being combined and all calculations simplified. The change was widely accepted and has led to the prosperity of older citizens entitled to social security. On the other hand, the group with this bill did not see the benefits of that change, and it is suggested here to be replaced by the State's special support of these individuals. Is the bill in harmony with what this government has agreed on and guided. I would also especially like to assume that the Ministry of Social Affairs will continue to work on the search for ways to give special support to those in the community that have the most support, whether through our improved systems or in any other way. After this discussion, I suggest that the case be referred to. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u4	A respectable president. This is a bill measuring for additional support for the elderly, the so - called impairment case. So I'm totally celebrating, and I'm just saying that this is a great thing. Yet, there is one who is more bent on such a matter, for we are referring to those who are the worst in society. I've seen people get paid to 60,000,700,000. and to survive it in a month when everyone knows that it doesn't work out, let alone. V.E.G. In his speech earlier, social and child - care minister said that it was up to a maximum of 230,000 p.m. I'll put a question mark on it. We'll have to, and we'll have to start over. To live a decent life, it is vital to start calculating the right forwarding according to the standard that people need in this country. According to one estimate, 230,000 K. below the poverty line, it cannot resist. It's kind of near low limits, the amount is so low. Sadly, this group will probably still be at the lowest point in a coin for forwarding. Okay, this is still a good step, and I hope we can accept this matter. I'm assuming it goes to a welfare committee, and I'll take a good look there. I hope in that context we can agree with that, but as I say, it's just the first step. It tells itself that we cannot, are not, and must not accept something that we know people cannot live on. We know that people who pay rent for housing and need food and medicine do not survive at 230,000 bucks. for tax. It's impossible, and that's why we should go to it now to fix it. It is often needed, but now is the time to find the right forward so that all can live with dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u5	A respectable president. It won't be long. First and foremost, I want to say something to celebrate the Supreme Court. Minister has arranged for this matter. I think it's very important that we put our arms around this group, as in fact, in the case of more members of Congress, now the last few. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson. It's like the highest. A minister entered a basic service group report covering the weakest links in the welfare network. As for a group of older people, they are this group, and it is important that we as a community put our arms around them. So I rejoice over this matter, and I look forward to coping with it. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u6	A respectable president. I am surprised to learn that the matter was under discussion at the Hall of Congress, for according to the information I have received, visitors were still asked to be heard by the welfare committee in connection with the bills discussed earlier today. In view of the situation and the fact that it is being put forward and tried to drive it quickly through the work and treatment of the council, although not being cast aside in the quality of the matter, it is surprising that a meeting of well - being is terminated to discuss here a matter that is not to be discussed. Would it not be wise to allow the welfare committee to comment on the important issues that are going on within the committee, and visitors are waiting directly for the committee to appear at a telecommunication?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u7	President has suspended meetings with the head of the welfare committee. When a meeting was postponed here. 18.15 concluded that it would be enough to delay the meeting until the end of the day. 18,40, and there would be no comments that he would then begin with a discussion on the subject. This information came to us, me and the office, direct from the welfare committee. As to the subject on the program, the president made special observations today as to whether it could not be fully studied. It was announced that the case again involved a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. The committee would have been unconcerned, and no council members would have objected that it was returned to 3rd and last. The president does not know that there are any objections that this case is now a final payment for the council as well as the fourth session. Both are well - tested and 3rd. This is in harmony with the tradition that such matters are being arranged. In view of what the president has now informed, the president believes that visions were quite aflexible to the conference board. Wants a what? However, members of Congress continue to discuss it, free of charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u8	President. I don't see in itself a reason to argue about this in view of the fact that the president has decided to set up a meeting, which means that a meeting was terminated or delayed. Not all guests were left at a meeting of the welfare committee, despite the fact that there is a matter that matters a little more in the least than the case here, this foreign nation, which can completely wait. It is incomprehensible why the administrative body is beating it against even an old rowing committee and going back on its way. Is it now the main thing for the government to finish this case, the Nationalist, and to postpone and cancel a meeting of members of a welfare committee that is concerned today? If it's the conference board we want to see here, if it's the organization we want to see at the council, then we must take it and take it to the discussion that the president is giving. This is very special, since visitors had not all been able to attend a meeting of the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u9	The president reiterates what he had previously said, it was the assessment of the head of the welfare committee that this time limit would be appropriate for a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u10	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the national law and set the boundaries of property, national boundaries and delinquency, No. 58/1998. In the leading part of the 1980's, the boundaries of a so - called no - man country in the highlands were considered normal, as were some of them. Sadly, the State's demanding property has been in total opposition to the original purpose of this traffic that began 22 years ago. In fact, the treatment of many cases is completely unacceptable. Forces were completely out of control in some cases. Consider one example from the northeastern region. In some places, the requirement for land to be defined as national land down to the sea was required. For example, 75% of the land of Gopakakrapp, for example, was required to be identified as a member of the State. A similar standard is found in up to 90% of the earth in this area. Thus, the conduct of the State has not been in the spirit of the cooperation that farmers and state power had in the way of the case, nor in accordance with the purpose of the law itself, which is primarily to ensure the market's ownership so that there can be no doubt about the rights of landowners. No one would expect the state to meet any demands in the United States. That, however, came to be true. It is also surprising that in some cases the burden of proof should be placed on landowners. Such treatment is inconsistency with a general court of justice. The burden of evidence is on the prosecution's hands, but not vice versa. These matters have not been satisfied with political parties and not with governments. These issues have contributed to a division among the people. There has never been a political unity, but it continues. This issue is not merely a matter of geographic location but of people who have had to defend themselves against the government, who have actually acted like a wolf in sheep's clothing when church-like property was established that never existed. People who have come to these matters are suspicious of the State, which has been seeking its property, and the president of the landowners' community, said the national population of the land was a target. On the one hand, there is landowners, property, and rights, and on the other hand there is a group of people who consider it to be a great benefit to those whose land is not to be owned by the State as much of a country as that of a kind of national property. I think everyone has an understanding of this, Mr. President, that it is important to define the highlands, so-called no-man's land, as property of all Americans and including farmers. However, the march that has been carried on in far too many cases by the State, not to respect holdings on government property, is serious and unacceptable. It was of utmost importance that the people of the land were at peace, as it was at the outset. However, this failed miserably, writing to the State, to the minister of finance, and to the inconspicuous demands that have been maintained and to stress since the beginning. The Lawgiver was to intervene immediately when the direction was clear. They should have immediately stopped the premise, treatment, and methodology that the Ministry of finance and its officials had in mind about farmers and other landowners. That's where the lawgiver lacks courage and will. In this discussion, I would like to remind you that one of the highest law professors in the country at the time said that the law on the Wilderness Committee was unnecessary, that the implementation of the National Law was unambiguous, and that it was questionable to pass a constitution. Some lawyers have also said that the National Code was a violation of the Constitution. Some who have called the claims of the State cruel. National heritage has caused soil damage to farmers and landowners, lost in price, and sold them hard in times where the State required great national demands. Since then, specific material is also available on the subject of national discrimination according to localities. I've talked to people who know about these chemicals that believe that politics affected them. If so, it is, of course, gravely serious. Some landowners, according to all authority, came to earth for over 600 years, or those associated with them, and there were no reports of having been made to the holding of property, known to the fact that, until the State came to light in the uniform of the Wilderness Committee, with a full hand from taxpayers to survive an endless period of lawsuits against innocent farmers, and began to question such authorities. The local community did not comment on the Patriot Act at its time, but their original purpose, as stated earlier, was that the State takes up so - called vain. In the beginning, the Governing Body promised that no legal property would be passed on to farmers. Then came another point. These include when farmers were in favor of the State, both the Wilderness Committee and the District Court of the East. The state then appealed to the Supreme Court, where the court felt that the proclamation of farmers was not fully established. I allow myself to state here that this was not the will of the Lawgiver at the time. It was not suggested that such a search be made for the declared farm property of farmers. Understandably, then, the local community was not impressed with the practices of the Wilderness Committee today and concluded that they would back up those who appealed to the European Court of Human Rights, and it was quite clear that in some matters the burden of proof was simply reversed. Individual rural communities also reasoned on the harshness of the practices of the Unanimity Committee. In addition, large farmers'meetings have been held in many parts of the country and in the claims of the State, as in Eastern Scatfall County, for example. There ministers and members of Parliament declared that if church property were taken from humans, they would change the national law. Have they lived up to the big words? No, they haven't. There was no sense of such declarations. At that same meeting, it was claimed that the requirement of a government minister had completely gone out of control and was in no way consistent with what the State laws were intended. Senators acknowledged this, but they did not do anything about it. Mr. President. This issue is not merely to farmers or landowners. Rather, it focuses on the fact that this is the Constitution's property rights, the government's legal rights, which then began to question. It doesn't happen in the Western world, but it happened in Iceland. As far as the sea is concerned as a desert committee will turn to the bill, there have been compelling evidence that the network area is part of the earth and is part of it. At the same time, there is strong evidence that the earth is involved in the resource beyond the grid. Iceland's land weekend has been run by big-freaking steel. Thus, land countries are an unambiguous part of the common resource of the sea. In addition, a significant part of the training of various crops is required for groundwaters within the grid layer, thereby creating a claim to internalization for use, as the marine and biological movement between grid shape and outer space is in progress. They were part of known fishing grounds at all times. The UN has in some cases gone beyond the requirements for proof, and in general, the burden of evidence has been so heavy on landowners that it is considered a violation of both a moderate order and an equal rule. The fact that the state is making demands in this way and simply taking from the landowners they own is a great reminder of Communist methods in former government states. When this bill is discussed, it must be maintained here that farmers feel that the State has been very aggressive in the national groups in general. No one was expecting this harshness on the part of the State. And now, in this bill, to blow back into the parish, open up again for issues in the areas completed in the process, and most certainly restarting a mission that will likely last another 22 years and this time against the owners of the sea. The Independence Party conducted the Ministry of finance for 17 years out of the 22 people who have passed since the law went into effect. The toughness of the case has not come from a no-go call. The Wilderness Committee did not shape policy. She didn't lay her lines down. It is and has been the minister of finance that shapes policy, and it will continue to be a law of the bill. At last, the general independent of the people was complaining about the matter by the minister of finance, giving particular consideration to the congregation's national meeting in its own time, in terms of the obligation to be respected by the synods of property. There is a story to the next town that the Independence Party had to conclude on this road. The chairman of a landowner's community later stated that the party had not lived up to its resolution, and the convergence was made as national lands. This case, Mr. President, is all apocalyptic of the Independence Party, and still the Independence Party, a group once a category of the private enterprise and the advocate of individual freedom, will be responsible for a new mission against the farmers and landowners of this country by enforcing a bill. Not to be overlooked were the forward groups, which were once door - to - door farmers. He's behind this bill and left green. Despite the fact that in this bill, there is a law that allows landowners to be reassigned, as discussed in the 6th and 7th. g., I think the interest of landowners will be greater and better if this bill is not legal. Mr. President. Now it's time to end up in the Wild Committee. It's supposed to be laid down. National groups have gone beyond anything that was introduced in the first place. The same is true of the taxpayers. The media does not support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u11	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children were very popular in discussing national languages, and they were not referring to the current bill. It would have been helpful if that were so. A senator would have spent more of his time discussing the changes in the bill he is opposed to. I think in his case, and indeed more who have expressed themselves on this, there might be some misunderstanding about what it involves. This is primarily a change in handling procedures. The changes included in the bill have no effect on individual property rights. It is as clear as before that those who are able to demonstrate a special right to the courts on the basis of data will be able to do so from now on as the bill that it has no influence on the underlying or material rights. In terms of the marine landscape, there was a matter of opinion in the proceedings led to the resolution of the global and educational committees, which included it reveals that the comments in favor of taking something right from the owners of the sea are based on misunderstandings on the bill. There is nothing in what affects the rights of the owners of the sea, not anything created. However, there is in the bill a law affecting the case in these cases. There is a fundamental difference, and if the discussion is to be objective, it will not work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for the counter-sponsored. I think there's a lot of need to remember here how these matters have been handled from the beginning. I thoroughly explained that in terms of the State's claims, all have been overly strict and by no means proposed. Senators and ministers were aware of this, were called to a meeting in various parts of the country, where they acknowledged that these things were not being taken on the way that had been originally planned and that they had to change. However, nothing was done in this regard. It's necessary, then. A senator, to review this here because it's time to move on. Now it's time to turn to the sealands, as I rightly mentioned. We're gonna go for a second. Congress officials have not seen the demands that will then be imposed on the State. In view of what has been said in this regard, it is expected that it would be overly excessive. I'm very afraid of that. I think it is true that the process is being carried on that has, unfortunately, been very different from what was started. I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but the Independence Party has a considerable responsibility for this case, which I also traced here. I would surely have wanted to see that the independent party met with the criticism he has had to deal with in this regard, for example. falling away from this matter. It's just that it's simple to us. [[The president calls.]] Middle-class members are saying that landowners and those involved would be far better off if this bill did not become legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u13	V.E.G. President. On the one hand, there is dissatisfaction, which in some respects is understandable, with the 1998 national laws being carried out. During the 22 years that have passed since then, things have happened, and in fact, things have changed, so that the later years have been more satisfied with the project than they may have been in the early years. I think it had some effect on both the learning and the heeding of criticism made, especially during the first few years after the National Social Code was passed. However, the bill we are considering here focuses on certain specific changes in the current law in this field. As we take our stand on this bill, we will likely have to do it based on what is involved in the bill as such. Despite my respect, it's right what I'm talking about. In general, a senator's review of these matters and a general dissatisfaction with these matters over the past two decades is more important than discussing the specific criticism issues that have been presented on the bill and trying to resolve them. It has been attempted at the scene of the day. The General and Education Committee and the decision has been that there are no significant changes to the bill because it primarily consists of specific guidelines for treatment, not on the rights of certain groups or some country owners in certain areas. There are other rights to decide. But I do believe that the guidelines under which these procedures are being changed are for improvement from what is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u14	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. It's, for example. Just a major concern that the bill should open for taking a case back in certain completed areas, the process is over. I'm telling you right here that those who have been in this business for years defending themselves against the government are deeply concerned. It just tells itself. Now these parties are about to face the possibility of a comeback in these matters, and there is a need to defend themselves against the government with the related costs, efforts, and concerns. It's something that we can see from the bill, OK? A senator, so - good. Then a senator can review it afterwards. [[Up front.]] The point is, the experience with these matters is that it is time to finish this, to put down a nomadic committee, and save the much money of taxpayers who have gone into this case from the start. It lasted for several years when the law was accepted in its own time, but it is still with people 22 years later, and many people have had to be clean and direct in lawsuits that have taken great care of family and farmers in this country. It's got to be said right now. They thought that they could be confident that no church property would be satisfied, but that was not the case during the day. I reiterate that I am deeply concerned that the same process will continue to take place in this bill, that the demands will be in order to cause great problems for people and harm in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u15	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's offer for his fine speech with all the historical explanations that were presented there. As a landowner and partner in a good partner, a partner of landowners, I can't see all the grinning ones that were drawn up there. Hv. A senator named Goshakakreppe, when these requirements were set in his day. Well, that's how it happens in this community that the one standing here lives and I'm going to ask him why. A member of the council to see if he knows the smell that took place regarding the decision given to the U.S. O. True, all of this has worked out a lot, but it is also proper to mention it here in this chair that the cost of this matter has been paid by the government so far. True, people may be dealt with spiritually, and they may suffer. But financially, I understand that the State was the greatest in all of this. In part this is natural, so with what was done in the Wild Committee case, people are explaining the boundaries. But I'd like to direct a question to the question. The senator's findings involved in the GEPSrablap.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. The conclusion is not the key in this regard to the fact that the requirement was in such a way that men had to put forth an enormous amount of work in order to try to defend themselves against what they did not expect. I don't know the results because of that. A senator asked about this particular company. Initially, 90% of the country was assigned to the peoples. And there are many of these cases, and I know these examples, in which the state's demands were far out of proportion, far beyond the beginning. Humans were simply speechless when they saw demands that came first from the State. It is that which matters, that the goings out of the things which were begun with at the beginning. It's a little important to keep it in place, huh? Senator. At the expense, I know many examples that individuals involved, farmers, were not paid all that had been promised. This is the fact of the matter, and it can be proved if desired. But we keep to the point that with this bill, we are being brought back to life. When they thought it was finally over, continue and open up more possibilities, etc. and turning to the seashores, as I have traced them to talk. I don't think that's a good idea. Sports are full of it. It's just simple. Hv. A senator correctly explained that this has become a source of great anxiety, and it has caused human harm. This has made it possible, as I previously explained, that land has not been sold because the above standards were for many years, unsolved cases for many years. All of this has caused harm to people whose lives have not been corrected. It's just like that, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. In the beginning, I'm going to tell you what. Senator on the results in a Gonorrhea carpet. It was so that there was not one lock in the Goat Bank Jellopards 'cause we could prove all the boundaries. True, it was a work, but the border was clear. It is the expected purpose of human efforts to make such an issue known where the boundaries are. It is reasonable to assume that in this work, people need to show the size of their planet and that in this case they needed landowners to do, and this took time. But the purpose was dedicated to the average. At least I have to say that with us who live in this country. I also know what went on in other rural communities around me, and the results became the same. All that was judged to be a national country once owned by the State was a neighboring company with me. In certain areas, the barrier is clearly clear, and hence it is available. It must be noted in this discussion that with the bill it should not start again on the available sites. [[Up front.]] No, it's not like that. There is no going back to court with landowners where the result is at hand. That's quite clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator came to this very important point, saying that the border was clear. Why, then, was the authority to make a claim to the areas where the boundaries were clear? That's what I think is something that wasn't put up in the beginning. It was not the Lawgiver's will to go to the church-enforcement border, but it was. It was done, and that is exactly what it is. A senator traced here and found it out. We're watching how the government has treated civilians in terms of property rights. The Constitution is a matter of never - to - be - never - of - be - a - matter question, and it is something the government is never supposed to do. But it was. This is not done in the Western world, but it was done in Iceland, and it was done in the Soviet states of the day when Stalín had taken property from the citizens of that country. In Iceland it was done and it was right to keep it in place. We have no guarantee that, already to approach the oceans, there will be no demand that are already members of the Parliament, the Parliament's Code, and clear border, as well. A senator correctly traced and set a fine example. To the point of our concern in the Middle Ages, these issues are completely out of control for everything that was originally planned. Everyone agrees on that. As I traced a talk, members of the council and ministers were called at a meeting, and they accepted this. Those who made the law accept this, but they did not do anything about it. It's that serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u19	Mr. President. We'll talk here at the 3rd. The bill for changing national law. First I want to make that remark, as I did in the conference board earlier, that I find it sweetly surprised that this case has come into the room today to 3. ., and thus until hatching, at times when these lines are specially placed by the highest level. The President of the Generals and the government officials that the government's administration will be comfortable and helpful in managing matters, and even if the Chairmans respond worst, if the government council members would like to ask simple questions at committee meetings and wonder if specific things could be done more wisely than a minister would think of each. To me, this is more strange to me in the first few days of the tour that all of this is about to be proposed for cohesion and understanding that it is wise and necessary for everyone to calm in the same direction, that this is the message sent into the council, that now introduce some of the cases that are considered to be the most practical and best discussed in a calm manner. It is with such conflict that a meeting of the welfare committee has been cut off for half an hour, while visitors were still waiting to arrive at that particular meeting in order to get this case to the end of the discussion, and thus a duplicating outside of the vote, that I have to do it again with serious comments. I know it's the highest. A president now sitting in a pita has a strong grasp of these views. So I'll just get to the point. Hv. paritaprevir In this regard, a member of the Independence Party member of the Ármannsson, noted that the subject of the matter would be addressed, and it is necessary and probably necessary. But first, I'd like to say a few words about the second process. and management of the committee. That was the case in 2nd. Not long ago it was announced, and we concerned about the case were told that the matter would be taken up in the light of the serious comments that had been made and taken into consideration. Then the issue goes to the committee, and who are called before the committee? It's a representative of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, a representative of the Ministry of Prime Directors and the Committee to Resident. Without having to define much, then they're the members who wrote the bill, I suppose. They were called to hear about what was going on with this blessed bill. To them, there was nothing wrong with the bill. The issue was taken away on March 12. No one ever objected to that. I'm authorized to inform you here that a member of the Central Committee has the right not to oppose the removal of a case when there is more to it than a member of the Central Party requested that the matter not be taken out at that point for further guests. The day after a case was taken out of the... it's just gonna have to request confirmation of it from the bottom. Senator. [[Did it come out?]] [[Up front.]] The day after the hearing is taken out of the commission, there is a review from Iceland's Vegetarian Society, the Blood Vessel Protection Association of the United States and the U.S. There was not a single word with the owners of the sea. There was not a single word with the Landowner's organization between discussions. Because of what? paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year has been in a conversation with the one standing here, perhaps he could answer that, verify it. [[Up front.]] It's a big surprise, as a mild word, that it's a special interest for the government groups, and especially for the fine independent party, that it is run through now, continued assault on landowners and farmers' rights, that it's the case that the Independence Party decides to put his head in and say, "We're going to finish this. " It is also surprising that the advance team is on that journey. Of course, it is less surprising that the left - green social arts of socializing have placed the Kingdom as much land and part of the sea as possible. Before I get to the point, and I know why. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson waits for it, and I have to finish this political thing that turns around that it's completely different that this matter is in such a priority with the Independence Party that it's acquired for evil at the same time and its representatives want good weather and cooperation on all other matters, that this kind of thing goes through.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u20	It's been here six months at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u21	It hasn't improved the fact that it's been for six months at the council, so I'll say it again. A senator calls here from the hall. I would like to include the points, but I assumed that they would be taken into account for material purposes and made changes in the activities of the committee following the incident. First of all, it's 5. However, a note was returned to the committee on the site in the wilderness. To some extent, it is an advantage for a U.S. board to be placed in court over their own vision of the matter. But there's only one point in this context that I'd like to mention here in particular. The point is that much discussion has been made that the Internet guarantees only hunting rights, not the material mass at the bottom of the sea and below. By permission of the president, the book of John says: ▪ But it's the end of the grid when sealot lies at the base of twenty stings of deep to shore, and then comes out of the sea. Later, says: He owns the seams and birds all, sells all and broils... All members of the council know that the sea is not the same thing as that, so the expression ◯ Since the whole ◯ indicates that the possession rights of the land owner are not limited to hunting rights in connection with the John Book of depth. This is a point that, although there was good reason, I was not considered on the committee. Although there is much to determine at this point as a strong criticism of 5. In particular, I would like to read from the introduction of landowners' review of the bill, which says, by permission of the president: The European Union considers the most unnecessary changes proposed and that the proposals have been made primarily for the political purpose of seeking to increase the authority and authority of public authority, i.e. State and rural society, at the expense of landowners' rights. I'm sorry, sir, but this is what frames this case into the politics in this regard. I bear in mind that it is quite surprising that there are members of the Independence Party and the Front Class who are putting such emphasis on a matter that this will be over. There are other things underneath, to form the so-called public in lakes. They have been counted in the exclusive share of landowners who have their own special property, and since then the middle of the water has been considered to be the sole share. Now, the state funds, the Wild Committee, have taken hold of these areas in some way, and I don't see why, after the march of the land around us, have walked here for the past two decades in their dealings with the Unanimity Committee and the State, to promote an enemy celebration in this regard. And even more with regard to the fact that it is highly critical that it will be allowed to open older matters if demands have not been set out sufficiently by the State. Why in the world do representatives of an independent party and a forwarding party consider it a reason to make that journey? I understand, I think, the political reasons why agents of the left green want to go on that road, I think I understand. But I don't understand why the Independence Party, the Independence Party, wants to do that. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir - old Ármannsson said that it was understandable in many respects that men who had had had to have these communications since the start of the Wild Committee were thrilled. In this context, the steps are fear - inspiring and of little. I think it would have been a good idea to let this case either go to sleep on the General and Education Committee or it would have been made to make a significant change from the original source. Neither did it, and here we are in the 3rd. and I'm going to make a statement to the 2nd. It would have been much more significant that certain members of the administrations of this public talk would not have been announced that the matter would be taken up for a particularly good discussion between discussions. If the board members don't recognize it, they have to go online and examine their own speeches, I did. There was no difference in the fact that understanding after that declaration was bound to be that there was a possibility that the matter would come back to a different conclusion than that now, i.e. nothing but conversation. No concern has been taken into account in terms of any of the problems that have been mentioned, either to the views of the marine owners or to the viewpoints that arose in terms of income of land conditions that apply to them. To a large extent, this feeling continues to be complete, a feeling of premise that seems to be being controlled by the present government, and no doubt it is because of the different categories. It's enough when the three government parties have made peace or a decision, I'm not going to call it happy, about what each member's going to have to give in each case. If the agreement in this case is in the government classes facing landowners, especially the owners of the marine land, on this uncertainty tour - if I recall correctly, it is expected that the committee will be submitted in 208 - if it is the special will of the House of Independence and the People, it is well said that it is their will and not theirs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u22	A respectable president. It was so much bullshit that it came out here that I don't really know where to start. As manager of this case, I said that the matter would be reinstated in a committee of the Committee, i.e. Before it was taken out. There was no doubt that we would like to get it through 2nd. and then the case would be taken back. We'll take it, there's never been any doubt about it. However, I have to say that the members of the Central Committee did not want any more visitors, nor did I agree that the matter would be taken out. So I do not understand that the case was not properly tore up on the committee. It's just a lie. The points we've been tracking, and come on. conducted in the Central Party minority's list, was taken into consideration. There was no need for all members to return to the committee meeting. The marine owner's opinion of the Association of the Coalition rests, e.g. Prepared for, there was no need for them to come back in. It was absolutely crystal clear to us, their attitude toward this matter. We, however, were contacted by a representative of the Ministry of finance, including the U.S. because of what the talk was about. Þórarinsson Here at the conference hall, and where the money was discussed. They were explained and have reason for being in the way they are. Everything else that has been discussed here was handled very well. Of the fact that one source of information is worth less than another. The council members and members of the Central Party express that it is generally not just good people who appoint a noncombat committee - at least you can understand it this way because it says that they have the authority to interpret this and that so - it is perfectly clear that what was being considered here at 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 5. Environment, and the people did not feel quite clear, were very clear both in a memo and in the discussion and in word exchange at a meeting of the Committee. [[The president calls.]] I just can't agree with that, okay? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, that the matter has not been handled well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u23	Mr. President. First, I must refer to my father's houses that I was suggesting that the staff of the Unanimated Committees were badly renovated. I don't know what I'm talking about. But if you do. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen understood that part of my speech so vice versa, it is not surprising that it came up here but amazed. It is, of course, so that you can see the point taken, it is not complicated. I suppose that's what it is. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen would respond, and although I am not in position, it would be interesting to learn what viewpoints were made on the commission in terms of the comments made by landowners or the organizations of the marine owners. I find it quite obvious that the position of the client was very uneven in this case, at least considering the comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u24	Mr. President. Getting guests in between committee meetings to discuss some points does not mean that you will receive what is requested here at the council Hall. The criticism that comes out of this or that of others does not necessarily make us all become. That's not necessarily a good work ethic, I think. Then the law was most likely given, for we do know that there is much we do not agree on. I just want to be righted that the comments were very well addressed that were directed to a desert committee and her jobs, and what the bill says on the subject of criticism were driven. There's a misunderstanding part of the reviews received by the committee and I just want to put it right. Hv. A senator mentioned the memo, which explains very well what was discussed here, says the comments of the Landsam, the tenants'tenants, and the reports of the Associations of the Seas, etc. I can't agree to that, man. A senator, that although not everything that a client would like to do, because he prefers to do things his own nose does not change the handling of this case, which has been very long under discussion, it does not change. It was said and driven here that Internet law is not being defined, and the article does not contain regulations for the removal of any rights of any kind. It does not contain a law on rights; it does not remove the terms of the logbook of John, or limit the range of driver's column. We're in a hurry. It is particularly a review of the comments made by the Coalition of Marine Farmers, which was partly based on misunderstandings. I'd like to make a point once again that the Central Party representative didn't ask for other guests to meet or object to being taken out of the committee at no time. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u25	A respectable president. The next meeting on the General and Education Committee will be of interest to you on this point. The person mentioned here does not think that it is a measure of whether a viewpoint is listened to all the subject's viewpoints will penetrate and reach final payment. Of course, it's not like that, but we all know it's here. But it is quite loud in this case that none of the landowner's viewpoints, which are simply the population to whom it becomes, reached through, none. That's what I repeat, and I haven't changed my mind, that it seems to me that there was a considerable difference in the situation, I intend to call it that name, in terms of the possibility that either side of the board could enjoy understanding of the Committee. It may be out of agreement, let us call what the government groups have achieved. However, the fact that the matter is being taken today to the end of a discussion highlights most of my mind how badly a section of the board seems to be going through. Of course, their members must deal with themselves and their voters, and I am not responsible. But it is very strange to stand here and discuss this matter, which is essentially controversial, at a time when the government groups are asking for a good weather for all that comes to their mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u26	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to make a good decision to discuss the matter on the committee. Between 1 and 2nd. The matter was thoroughly reviewed, and all reporters were called to the committee meeting. When considering the General Information and Education Committee, between 2 and 3. .., the committee is primarily trying to understand certain issues of opinion that had come up with, based primarily on comments made by landowners and marine owners. The committee discussed whether the understanding presented in the comments of these fine parties should be supported and supported by the bill itself. The commission concluded that it was not. As a result, the Commission concluded a discussion when an additional discussion was taken between the 2nd and 3rd. If a member of the committee was interested in calling more guests or further attention to the case at the committee site, that was not the case at the meeting I was sitting in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u27	V.E.G. President. I just want to reiterate what I said in my last answer to what I did. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir says that there will be an interesting meeting in the General and Education Committee on this point. However, it can be understood that the calling to the committee is between the 2nd and 3rd. has really been designed to handle issues that turned to Article 5. The bill? Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year says that it is not, but the evidence that other members of Congress have the opportunity to look only at this memo in the wilderness, which is primarily about viewpoints related to Article 5. Then it just goes the way it is, I guess this is the way it is. I don't remember this case from the Constitution. It has then been decided by an independent team and a forwarding class to take this road with left greens, since the case has been delivered from the highest level. Our prime minister, Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, the president of the left green, and the overemphasis of some of the highest. Ministers suggest that issues mentioned in the Treaty continue or that issues not mentioned in the Treaty are not part of the program, so that this matter is understood as much as it is today, and that it is surprising to join the House of Independence and the High Priests. But as for the relations of the Committee, I assume the Central Party representative will adopt them at their next meeting. We can't talk about it here because I wasn't at this meeting. However, this does not change the obvious fact that an application was received from the candidates the day after the case was taken out and likely on the basis of the agreement being reached as the terms of the administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u28	V.E.G. President. I'd like to repeat what I said earlier, by taking the case into consideration between 2 and 3. was referred to as making space and an opportunity to settle matters, therefore, in whole or in part, of what the members of the committee wanted. Actually, it was a good time since the case was discussed with the 2nd. and until the committee was treated - I don't remember what it was, whether it was ten days apart and then again a week from the committee meeting and until we take this up to 3rd. So it was, in effect, to slow down the situation, so that you might come to some viewpoints and comments and become more aware of what is involved. When the matter was discussed here with the 2nd. there were still many opinions that the bill would involve some material change, a violation of property, a violation of the Constitution, and I don't know what and what men said in the 2nd. The committee just said, "Okay, let's take a closer look. Let's think about it a little bit better, and if anyone wants to make comments to the committee, of course, it's possible, just as things work. It is impossible to believe that trying to slip something through or to drive something through. And when the bill is examined, and when examined over and over again, it is clear that this does not mean changing one or one's own position in any way. That does not involve it. This involves a change in handling procedures, and if you disagree with them, that is to be done. However, we should not pretend that there is something far more important in this than there really is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of the Ármannsson son of Aarveran answers. I clearly need to learn to speak clearly because I thought that it had been very clear, at least in my speech, that I made strong remarks to the treatment rules that were being changed now, especially about the point of repeating matters. It is the part of the matter that I am rejected from understanding what drives people to open up on that road so that the criticism is maintained. does this changed procedure, even though underlying criticism is otherwise and in many respects political. But the guidelines for handling are certainly criticized in the viewpoints I have expressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u30	Mr. President. I'm going to add a few words to this bill about the change in national law and the decision of national property, national boundaries, and penalties. The report on the bill shows three main objectives of making a donation: First of all, that uncertainty about land rights is to be eliminated. Second, explain the switch between state and rural society. Finally, the committee's work ends up. I'm not going to make a comment about all of this, but some in my speech. I'm going to start by saying that this is the most urgent issue today. We're fighting a pandemic and we've declared a state of emergency, but we have to finish this case. In view of the uncertainty of the ownership of a national position, the bill contains provisions for the evacuation of state authority to increase its demands under the operation of the Committee of the Wilderness Committee and, in addition, legalize that the Unmarried Committee is permitted to discuss the designated areas of decision making decisions to the State's claims. It was mostly from the report that this is the purpose, i.e. to clear up the state's sources so that they can increase their demands. And it is permitted to discuss an area that has already been discussed. This is what I was going to talk about, but something more than that. In other words, this means that it is authorized to adopt a case that has been completed by the committee. However, it adds tasks to the Commission, which partly violate the main objective of the bill, which says that now has to be completed, and that it must be predictable in 2024, or when it is, but it is still adding and opening that the State can perform a claim in areas that are already completed. I'll make a note of this, Mr. President. This is not trying to speed up the committee's activities but to add. In other cases, for the sake of the State, areas where the committee has already completed its decision are to be adopted, which has probably not made demands that have gone well enough, and an unscrupulous committee has found this in their decisions. They're in trouble because some part of the state hasn't gone far enough. As to this point, the National Institute of Landowners says: The European Union considers the most unnecessary changes proposed and that the proposals have been made primarily for the political purpose of seeking to promote the authority and authority of public authority. State and rural society at the expense of landowners' rights. It is still a process of cutting down the same knee by not allowing it to stop in the areas where the Unfinished Committee has completed its passage but rather opening up a possibility to the government, to continue to weigh the individual property rights in areas that have been covered and to conclude that these areas are not national citizens. In those areas it seems that they are now to look for some gaps that have been in the State's budget for their treatment and try to stop them for benefits to the State. The suggestions have fallen to maintain the insecurity of landowners against the State and to destroy the resulting trust. Finally, land owners' unions say that the interests of peace are richer than the interests of the State by amassing potential and minor faults and pitfalls in the State's claim. A landowner's organization - and in many respects, I agree with many of the things they say - say that the State continues to carry on its heavy journey of farmers and landowners throughout the country. A case should be taken up in areas where we thought the decision and the matter would be closed if the State sees any sign of complete confusion in it. The bill is partly to open it, Mr. President, and I'm not comfortable with it. I think we're gonna have to finish this, we're gonna have to cut it down. Finish the remaining areas, let go of much of the bill, and then stop this journey. What's going on? Yes, it was assumed that it would not be possible for the State to describe the demands again in a land that had been treated by the commission. That was the plan. Therefore, it would have been finished that things had ended. They believed that treatment was thus finished for the Committee. Is the possibility that such matters will be opened again, for the sake of the State? I can see no better, Mr. President, but it's being opposed to the main objective of the law itself, which, as I mentioned at the outset, is that there would be an uncertainty of land rights. It seems to me that there is an increase in uncertainty in the areas covered by the Wilderness Committee. A payment for uncertainty, but there's going to be extra pressure. When will this journey stop? When will this be over? So all areas, both the rest and the rest, will remain upset. The certainty may not end until the board of the Wild Committee has formally read. The bill also expects the Committee to handle specific areas in the general population of lakes and areas outside the coast of the country. I'm going to move on to a few things. Public lakes are owned by landowners whose land belongs to the affected water. What's the state doing there? I'm doomed, Mr. President, to see that. What is this about? What is this lawsuit about? What's it about? The law on salmon and trout fishing, and beyond, I think, says the public in lake is: ▪ The proportion of lakes outside 115 m wide water belts (networks) of those on the surface of the water. Or further out if you look at chapter 2 of the logbook of John, something at a depth of 7 m. Law on salmon and trout fishing, 6th g., says real estate owners, whose land is to sea, are one free to hunt in the public water and to be equally permitted to them all. What's the state doing there? What procedures should cause this to become a source of confusion, and what is the purpose? I can't get it. I may not have read the report entirely to a word, but I did not see the need for it. I didn't see an explanation for that. I'd love to have someone to point that out. I asked for that at 2nd. and have not yet found this explanation or heard it, and I have asked some of them: What does the state reach out for in the general population of lakes? Do you think these are landless? Is that what they think? What's hanging on the stick? Is it not possible for courts to decide if disagreements arise? Is the Kingdom seeking the common people in lakes up in the highlands? Is that what hangs on the stick? But I don't have those answers, and I'm just asking. What's the disagreement, Mr. President? Shall it be, as in all these other matters, that they lay the burden of evidence, and the burden of true possession, all to the farmers? So the shepherd of the Kingdom grows old. If they do not get together, the Kingdom will rule them. And how rich is the burden of proof? How hard is it to be? I've heard from other sources that men thought it was tight, and sometimes they didn't take into account the documents they've offered. Is it the responsibility of the government, Mr. President, to thus question the rights of the people and the shepherds of the estate that they likely or possibly have by such legalization and such persecution, with all the authority of the State on these landowners? The bill decides that a desert committee will take up areas outside the shoreline and would appear to be the obvious development of the case, as the expression implies. ▪ When the committee takes land off the coast of the continent to treat, at the present time. Was it not decided before, or is it new? I think it's a new idea to hide a nomadic committee, also to go through this holding rights, i.e. To reexamine the rights of the owners of the sea in the land that turn toward the sea. Actually, Mr. President, it is beyond my understanding that a committee founded 22 years ago and that the name of the Wild Committee should be considered as well. The law's regulations always include land, but I haven't studied the law on this matter, so it may have been assumed that the committee was also supposed to handle this case, i.e. Into the sea. I'll allow me to question it, and nothing in the current lyrics points to that. I allow me to state that if this had been the original plan, it would have been specifically stated, as well as in the public waters; it had been specifically stated. So, in my opinion, after reviewing the matter now, it is being extended, to expand the work at the Committee. They're adding land prospects. It is going into the public of lakes and into rocks and hills, drooping and islands as far as possible. Of course, this violates the primary objective of completing these tasks as soon as possible. The Wilderness Committee was founded about 1998, and I remember that it was due to be completed a few years later, 2008, I think that was the goal, even earlier. Then it was extended until 2015. It is now in 2020, and this is at the end of the 2024, and we are now quite long because it is almost over. I think I can agree with a lot of what landowners have said. They've been waiting so eagerly that this journey would soon be over. We can be sure that this is an added work to the committee. For this term, I'm going to read here from the memorandum of the Committee on the Wilderness Committee. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ National Greek code is a country in Icelandic jurisdiction. The whole country is under national law, either country or country, and the role of the Wild Committee is to distinguish it. The concept of a land beyond the shoreline of the continent to 5th pars. The bill refers to an island, a harvest, and other geographic elements around the country, as shown by the bill. Because of the treatment of nationalities beyond the shoreline of the continent, it is necessary to identify what is land and where land to be concerned. Yeah, what's a country? Now is the time to answer that question. Later, by permission of the president: However, the bottom of a 115 - m net law is part of an adjacent country, so it falls under the scope of a folk law. There's no country out there anymore. It's below sea level, but they're still going to decide. In other words, the decision given by the Committee is to be adopted as they mention and appear to be called, all the same, and always below the surface of the sea. Now that my time has come to an end, I am not finished with my talk, and I have much to do with it. I'm pointing out here at the end, when I'm reading this about the country, that it seems that everyone's advice is already to explain what is being explained to a desert committee. That's what I'm trying to explain in my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u31	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the national law and set the boundaries of property, national boundaries and delinquency, No. 58/1998 (Authorisation, Treatment, Re-up, et cetera.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s I have to start now, as more speakers have been saying, taking note that I am surprised by the fact that this matter is being discussed in this uncertainty period, in view of the fact that it is going on over the global viral epidemic that shakes human life across the globe. The President of the Generals has reported in the media that the most discuss will be made up of the council and you would not expect this issue, which is not at all, that our opinion in the Central Party, would be established that it could be completed. We actually thought that it was on our way out because there was a meeting on the committee earlier, and not all guests had yet arrived, and they do not agree on why it happened. But I think it's a very strange situation that we should be discussing this matter. But all right, it's on schedule, and I'm standing here in a speaker's hand and I'm gonna discuss it. When we had this case at 2nd. I had good hopes, and to others, that they would be cut off by bait and the questions that were answered at that point, mostly on the 5th point. The bill. And as mentioned in talks, the Committee gave a memo from a desert committee that shows that there is a big misunderstanding with the authorities who have sent in reviews, but those members are not, however, not called into the committee to cause them to swallow the uncertainty. Rather, it is simply a note of a memo, in fact, a one - sided publication. And I have to say, I don't like this approach. I can't imagine that all the reporters who made comments on this matter are satisfied with this. It has been presented in a talk by reason of reason. paritaprevir The case of Birgir's Þórarinsson is that over the years and decades there have been lawsuits that have led to the failure of people whose land has been able to sell land because of the facts and to terrorize if this is to be spread elsewhere, as stated in Deuteronomy. Gr., they're going to seafields and islands and harvests. I think it is clear that this matter needs much better and more careful discussion so that all people can be reasonably content with it. There are, for example. The union of the owners of the sea that I'm going to mention in this relationship. Because I was referring to this memo, I'd like to recall only the reviews of the sources who own islands and use them to do so. First, it's from Bjarni M. Jónsson, the owner of the marine environment and ocean and coastal experts. He says here, with permission from the President: In fact, there is 5. It would be unnecessary and much easier to comply with existing laws that show that the border is a base of depth, as shown by John's book of four hugs, or 6,88 meters [6.88 m] from continent, hills, rocks, draughts, and rocks rising from seawater. Very likely, the Jón's net law-enforcement analysis is the best, the simplest, most reasonable definition of the earth's boundaries that have been treated by the Unfinished Committee to this time, where it is everywhere the same around the country. The second period of law aimed at the distance rule of 60 hugs or 115 yards [ 115 m] from a smoldering board may be there, but at all times, what is more determined within the area must be determined as far as it is concerned. cannot allow mining outside a hundred and twenty-five feet [ 115 m] net layer, but within the depth limit of the grid, if extending beyond it. It also applies to Jón's book, which refers to a depth target, and applies in many areas, especially in areas where basic water is being used, e.g. ... tofish. Although this is mentioned in the memo, I don't think it's enough that people don't have to worry about this case because there's really a misunderstanding. That's why my party would've wanted a much better answer. So I only witness in article five. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ There is no detailed information on the number of geographic components that are above sea level on a major eco-efficiency. However, more than 10,000 islands and rocks on Iceland's coast have been drawn into maps but only a small proportion have a name. It may seem that it takes a lot of time to make the same procedure for them as it has been used for the continent. That procedure includes in that a nomad committee treats a certain part of the country and gives the relevant minister timeout to describe national requirements, as per 1 mg. 10th par. That's the law. I'm just gonna have to say, as I said in a speech the other day, that I'm pretty sure that most things make a name, there wouldn't have to be anything to do to find out. It also comes to my mind with the idea that islands that always have grass, one called a shield, many have been, most of them on the British side, to camp, and to use them throughout the ages. And that's just how these islands, if we can talk about feeling, feel better under such circumstances. The island, which is uncivilized and uncivilized, has no association with us, no matter what its practices, no means of amassing, or any of these things that are growing up, is completely uninhabited. They are filled with water and honey. The seed of birds has grown old, and the life of birds has grown old. I can name one island on Breamfjordur called the Melcoat Islands. A few years ago, it was appeased and the island was greatly reduced in the birds'stocks, making the most of the heat we call, and the island in absolute dissatisfaction. I think people should consider, if there are ideas of any kind of peace in this world, that history tells us that when these specific islands, just like areas that have been cultivated and used by man, where both man and beast have been said throughout the ages, go waste, and no one comes near them, they go into total disintegration. All we can see is land on land that's ruined, that's where they all go under the water, and that's what they're gonna be, and that's what they're gonna be. Throughout the centuries, living with man has become a habit of life on the islands, so that is how it feels. I'm just saying about this case that it's not at all that it can be taken care of. It needs to be won much better, and I hoped it would be done at 2 Timothy 3: 1. Um... where we discussed it a little back and forth. But what came out of work between 2 and 3rd. This was a memo from a desert committee and almost nothing else. Where it is. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson says it's only a case, I just believe it. Yet, we still have such concerns, and we need to stop them. I don't want to believe it until I figure it should be forced through, and I'd like to say it again. paritaprevir Berthothor Ólason said earlier, that he did not believe it in the independents, and hardly up to the reaching out, but, rather, that they would want this case to go through, especially at such times when we should be discussing much more urgent matters that pertain to the virus that, as I said at the beginning of the speech, upset the world, and cause great uncertainty. The General's president had already talked about winning the council and politics almost exclusively about the matter until we could begin to breathe more easily and address such issues as this and other issues, Parliaments and bills that lie before the council but that have been set aside because of the uncertainty. Now, my time is running out, and I hope that the case will be set aside until we have time to discuss it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u32	V.E.G. President. The matter we discuss has a long history, both in the Assembly Hall and among the people. This is one of the bad things that we would never have started 20 years ago. I'd like us to discuss how we were going to complete the journey that was taking us in time. Of course, many of us can say that we may have tried to stop it in some way in the past, but here we are. What I am most concerned about as it is growing today is the experience of being added to authority or opening up a case again. I have heard this protest made by an outstanding speaker, when I have answered that this is simply not true. However, the lyrics are very clear. It is also mentioned in both committees that sources are being opened, certainly in a certain way, where the government's possibilities are being increased to add to its demands, etc. I don't like it, and I think this case could have gotten a little more peace. True, there is also another article to which we have made comments. But it would have been better if we just had to wrestle with 5. In this matter, but not section four. Also, if that had been available. However, it comes as a surprise to learn that the government, as it is put together, with the governments that are now putting so much emphasis on the completion of this matter, that it is a priority to finish it here at night when many other programs are on a schedule that we need to discuss. Maybe I'll find out later. As noted, there have been comments on this matter from landowners and the owners of the sea. Landowners feel that there is an opening to things they don't normally like. We, on the other side of the table at a particular time in the countryside, when part of this went over, will remember just how much time and energy went on dealing with this matter. It is not a big difference that the account is, in part, the government sent. There are also other costs and dangers, and these may be opening up for repeating themselves here. What's special about this, tops. Mr President, the emphasis is on allowing these repercussions. Let us be if this were to be an effort to explain the legal rights available or to explain a project that is to be carried out by a non - Witness committee. No, it's getting better, and you have a feeling that you're trying to slip this through, that this re-array that's going on there is something that doesn't necessarily feel very good, but it's right to push it through here when people's mind is in a whole other place. This brings to mind the convention program that is inevitable. How different it is that we are discussing this matter now that we have other and bigger issues! This was arranged for a meeting, and this ended up with a meeting of the welfare committee, where the president decided that this matter should take priority. This case would have to be discussed, and this case would have to be completed, even if it is not to be elected immediately, but only on Thursday if everything remains. No, it is decided to end a meeting on a welfare committee that was discussing big things, unemployment benefits, and how we can help people who are even dealing with their broken economy. Then you decide to make this big case, take it into the council, knowing that it's a matter that calls for discussion, a matter of which in itself doesn't matter whether it's done now or some other time later. In itself, this is a matter that should not necessarily be planned for this council at all. But this is priority. This is what the board of directors wants to do. It will be interesting to see if this will be the strategy that will be used here at the Hall of Congress in the near future, that some matter that may be controversial or difficult to deal with will be arranged to slip them through while the mind is elsewhere. Of course, we will not take it lightly. When the president decided to complete his appointment, a well - organized committee was not finished. Not all guests had contacted the meeting through telecommunications equipment. As a result, there is a meeting at the time. 9 a.m., an after-mate meeting, actually, with the schedule tonight. A respectable president. There's no need to extend the case. It's not that complicated in itself. This is a bill that deals with big issues. I'm not going to go into the middle of five. g., I haven't got to put myself in it like many of my friends here who have spoken tonight. I mentioned 4. and I think it's really bad that we have her inside this case. I hope so, I'm not making it known that the more part will notice and suggest a change of motion before the vote takes place so that this case can be changed at the end end of the race. V.E.G. President. I would have liked to see that the program was in other ways, that we were focusing on the issues that really need to focus on, not on such extra matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u33	Mr. President. I will not extend this discussion more, but I will use this second talk to finish what I was going to say in my first speech. I was there to discuss the explanation given by the Wilderness Committee and the laws. As I believed, there is an expansion of the work force beyond what was originally thought. I named there the name of the committee, where they talk about land, and now it's at sea. The workspace of the Committee now reaches the ocean and reaches its lowest point in lakes. I feel that it is being added to the Committee's projects, and this is not consistent with the fact that the Committee should complete jobs as soon as possible, not if they are expanding their work. In particular, the work of the Committee is being increased when the government is being reassigned to an earlier case that had been completed. Also, I mentioned that there's an increase in uncertainty here. The purpose of the law was to resolve uncertainty, but there's an increase in uncertainty where older cases are being made. The conclusion is that all areas are upset again. The work of the Wild Committee is now not predictable, as in the past, with the expansion of its work field to the public of lakes and coastal areas. I don't think that this was the original intention, as I mentioned, that a noncommittee should be carried out on such missions that are now being entrusted, and I also made an explanation in a desert committee memo that in some cases the bottom of the sea is to be decided on the committee, not in other cases. That's how I explained that land could be drawn up considerably at sea. Of course, this applies to the seas surrounding islands, hills, droops, and rocks, and spreads as long as they come up in a big stream. I did not intend to complete this speech until I had discussed a little about the book of John and preferably in gray - headedness and would not allow it. I love old laws, and I really don't want them to disappear unless they're really unnecessary and mostly destructive. I'll just have to put a question mark on the board's memo. What purpose does such a memo have? Could statements and statements in the diary of the Wilderness Committee prove to be a barrier to the committee at a later time when it begins to decide these matters or when they arrive at her table? There are laws that are being explained, and there are some of the reasons for her explanation of various things. I mentioned the word "land" before, but it might go beyond that, there are some things that are being explained. I see that the committee explains the word "nets " and admits in its memoir that it is not as simple as it seems, but it has features in the book of John, and in the past in the Grey River - and I'm not reading it here, I have it in front of me, but I intend to let go of time. The memo acknowledges that John's dictionary never had been removed. She's never been removed. Yet, John's lawbook does not feel that it is in the library, not in the computer, and not in the library after 1919. It's not based on my own research, it's what I read somewhere. It has also been stated in the Supreme Court that this threshold is accepted, and I aim for the president not to let the law fall out of a law code, however it happens, unless it is actually cut out by law, that it does not happen again. I will quote the Supreme Court from 1996, pp. 2520: However, despite not being adopted in the version of 1919...-•19], the rules of the 2nd capitula drift column of Jon's book on the debating of Internet songs based on water depth have not been canceled by the legislature of lawgiver's decision. [[The president calls.]] I find it shocking if the Law can be cleared without the help of the Allegorium.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to introduce my second talk to you as a member of the Agency, please. paritaprevir The Þórarinn Igngi Pétursson mentioned in answer to me earlier. I didn't have the bill on my hand when I came in and wanted to take advantage of the opportunity now to answer the question expressed by the senator. Hv. paritaprevir The Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson claimed that the bill was not opening up. I want to read the words in front of me what the Bible says. ... withauthority of the President's permission: To add two new paragraphs, as follows: A minister's will increases the demands of the state on a case available for the treatment of a noncommittee may warrant that the increased demand for expeditation be met if the government cannot be misjudged if it has not made its demands at first, and the increased demand does not delay the treatment of the trial too on the basis of the committee. Regarding the presentation of the increased demand and demand deadlines of others who consider to be entitled to property, 2 mg/kg. This won't be much clearer. And it goes on to say, by permission of the President: If she has decided to make a comment on a minister's claim, it is permitted to address an area that has been previously treated. At the same time, the commission is permitted to take in the treatment of the public of lakes throughout the country. The matter of judicial action depends on the law of those laws.◯ For interested persons in the clarity of law, this will not be much clearer, and here perhaps the explanation is that the Agency's council is interested in the fact that this matter is going to work out, that support may appear to be based on misunderstandings. The bill of 4. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The damages involve the possibility of the state's addition to national standards under the management of the legislature board and, on the other hand, legalizing a special legal authority for the Unfinished Committee to treat areas that have previously been treated by the Committee, the Committee made a comment on the state's claim, in addition to the public water supply. Now's the time. paritaprevir The Þórarinn one doesn't have Pétursson in the audience, but I wish he'd come back and ask me again if it's not clear. It's a rather clear practice that's opening up for this reanimation that we in the middle class have made serious comments about. The situation that lies before us does not necessarily involve much improvement. It is very unfortunate that the program has been scheduled today and has the full signal that the government class is comfortable, or is cut, probably ill, to take care of the matter in as much quiet as any possible day, where other committees were pressed by the welfare committees and replaced by the task of a welfare committee so important to the government that they turned around. Change the rules of professional non-employment policy. This made no comment by the government, in fact supporting that the project would be done in this way. And then this case comes in from all the people. It's surprising, but it's just gonna have to start that this is one of the priorities of the Agency and the Independence Party. I can't find this anywhere in the government covenant, so it seems that it was my own decision to make these changes. And after the march of landowners over the last two decades or so, in their dealings with a U.S. When an important candidate for the advance party appears at the end of the 3rd district. and speaking of the matter of a complete misunderstanding, it is obvious that the matter is either not fully presented in the councils most surprised to support it or then to support it. Councilmen have put their binoculars to the blind eye. I'm gonna let that do for now. It is surprising that the House of Congress and the Independence Party support this case, but perhaps less surprising, that the left - green members of Congress do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-78.u35	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion any further, but I have to say, as we have seen, that I am amazed that this is so much emphasis on the matter when the council has to deal with the problems we face with the Korean virus. I especially want to enter it only as a dog. Ármannsson In answer to that, when he spoke of the purpose of the bill we address, it was not to alter a legitimate position. But that is exactly what happened and has happened in those foreign countries. On the part of the government, an attempt has been made to change the individual segregatory status of people when it comes to the officially declared holdings and property that were never established at the outset. This, of course, is a serious matter when no government authority can be trusted on property. This will crystallize a bit this discussion, at least in my part, to go on a journey to expand the role of the Wild Committee and to return to the sea, as I have traced and more in their trade. To me, therefore, there is a great concern that we will continue on the same path, i.e. that when the State's claim is to be made, as it has been, the highest demands on the State, and then it does not matter whether it is a political estate or a church-enforcement ban when it comes to land, that it is just continuing on course as one has to defend himself in what they have thought to be stable, namely. Conventional documents informing that the individual is the owner of the individual planet and that the border is clear. However, this has been the case during the 22 years that the Committee has been operating, and of course the steps in these areas are frightening when the role of the committee is to be extended in the way expected in the bill. In addition, it is clear that green light is to be given to open issues that have been resolved or otherwise completed in various geographical areas. This provokes fear among those who have had to stand for a long time in these lawsuits and had a profound effect on the individuals involved, both financially and financially, because it would have been difficult to sell land prepared for the State to stretch out on the rights there, in some cases, on the grounds of judicial hearings. It's all legitimate and proper concern that people have for this matter, and once again you don't understand why it puts so much emphasis on finishing this matter. It's kind of incomprehensible. I don't see that there are rich interests in finishing this situation right now. It must be said at the moment, Mr. President, that you wonder why it is so highly emphasised on this matter by the members of the administrations, the left green, independent party, and the forwarding party. Now people know and have been told over the years that these issues have been driven into conflict with landowners. Initially, the matter was settled, and farmers'interest groups had initially believed that it was good. Of course, everyone is concerned that land in the highlands and where no man's land is, but unfortunately, it's gone completely out of control, Mr. President, and that's why there's been a panic in these materials. We in the Central Party can't support this.
